
Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury


Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury


PART 0—DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY EMPLOYEE RULES OF CONDUCT

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:81 FR 8403, Feb. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
81 FR 8403, Feb. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 0.101   Purpose.

The regulations in this part prescribe procedures and standards of conduct that are appropriate to the particular functions and activities of the Department of the Treasury (Department).

§ 0.102   Applicability.

(a) Unless otherwise specified, the regulations in this part apply to all employees of the Department at all times, regardless of whether they are on duty or on leave, including leave without pay.
(b) The regulations in this part may be supplemented by regulations, interpretive guidelines and procedures issued by the Department's offices and bureaus. The absence of a specific published rule of conduct covering an action or omission does not validate that action or omission nor indicate that the action or omission would not result in corrective or disciplinary action.

§ 0.103   Other rules of conduct applicable to Department employees.

In addition to the regulations in this part, employees of the Department are subject to other applicable statutes and regulations, including the following:
(a) The Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch at 5 CFR part 2635;
(b) The Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Department of the Treasury at 5 CFR part 3101;
(c) Political Activities of Federal Employees regulations at 5 CFR part 734;
(d) The Employee Responsibilities and Conduct regulations at 5 CFR part 735; and
(e) Department of the Treasury Disclosure of Records regulations at 31 CFR part 1.

§ 0.104   Definitions.

The following definitions are used throughout this part:
(a) Bureau means:
Bureau
means:
(1) Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau;
(2) Bureau of Engraving and Printing;
(3) Bureau of the Fiscal Service;
(4) Departmental Offices;
(5) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network;
(6) Internal Revenue Service;
(7) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
(8) Office of the Inspector General;
(9) Office of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program;
(10) Office of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration;
(11) United States Mint; and
(12) Any other organization designated as a bureau by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to appropriate authority.
(b) Person means an individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or any other entity, organization, or institution.
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or any other entity, organization, or institution.
(c) Employee means an officer or employee of the Department regardless of grade, status or place of employment, including an employee on leave with pay or on leave without pay. Unless stated otherwise, employee shall include a special government employee.
Employee
means an officer or employee of the Department regardless of grade, status or place of employment, including an employee on leave with pay or on leave without pay. Unless stated otherwise, employee shall include a special government employee.
(d) Special government employee means an officer or employee of the Department who is retained, designated, appointed, or employed, regardless of type of appointment, to perform temporary duties on a full-time or intermittent basis, with or without compensation, for not to exceed 130 days during any period of 365-consecutive days. 18 U.S.C. 202(a).
Special government employee
means an officer or employee of the Department who is retained, designated, appointed, or employed, regardless of type of appointment, to perform temporary duties on a full-time or intermittent basis, with or without compensation, for not to exceed 130 days during any period of 365-consecutive days. 18 U.S.C. 202(a).
(e) On Department property means present in a building, on property, or in space owned by, leased by, occupied by, or under the control of the Department.
On Department property
means present in a building, on property, or in space owned by, leased by, occupied by, or under the control of the Department.

§ 0.105   Responsibilities of employees and supervisors.

(a) Employees shall comply with all generally accepted rules of conduct, the specific provisions of this part, and other applicable regulations. An employee with questions about generally accepted rules of conduct, the specific provisions of this part, and other applicable regulations should consult his or her supervisor, a human resources specialist, or Bureau counsel.
(b) Supervisors, because of their day-to-day relationships with their employees, are responsible for ensuring that their employees maintain high standards of conduct. Supervisors must be familiar with this part and other applicable regulations and must apply generally accepted rules of conduct, the standards in this part, and the standards in other applicable regulations to the work they do and supervise. Supervisors shall take appropriate action, including disciplinary action, when violations of this part or other applicable regulations occur.

§ 0.106   Corrective action.

An employee's violation of generally accepted rules of conduct, the standards in this part, or the standards in other applicable regulations may result in appropriate corrective or disciplinary action, in addition to any penalty prescribed by law.

Subpart B—Rules of Conduct


§ 0.201   Acting within scope of authority.

An employee shall not engage in any conduct or activity that is in excess of his or her authority or is otherwise contrary to any law, regulation, or Department policy.

§ 0.202   Conformance with policy and subordination to authority.

(a) Employees are required to comply with the lawful directives of their supervisor and other management officials.
(b) Employees shall be familiar and comply with regulations and published instructions that relate to their official duties and responsibilities.

§ 0.203   Reporting suspected misconduct.

(a) An employee shall immediately report to his or her supervisor, to any management official, or to the applicable Office of Inspector General:
(1) Any information that the employee reasonably believes indicates a possible offense against the United States by an employee of the Department or any other individual working on behalf of the Department, including, but not limited to, bribery; fraud; perjury; conflict of interest; misuse of funds, government purchase or employee travel credit cards, equipment, or facilities; and other conduct which is prohibited by title 18 of the United States Code;
(2) Any suspected violation of a statute, rule, or regulation, including this part and the regulations referenced in section 0.103 of this part;
(3) Any instance in which another person inside or outside the federal government uses or attempts to use undue influence to induce an employee to do or omit to do any official act in derogation of his official duty; and,
(4) Any information that the employee reasonably believes indicates the existence of an activity constituting:
(i) Mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, or abuse of authority;
(ii) A substantial and specific danger to the public health and safety;
(iii) A threat to the integrity of programs and operations relating to the Department; or
(iv) A violation of merit systems principles or a prohibited personnel practice as described in 5 U.S.C. 2301 and 2302.
(b) Bureau counsel who, during the course of providing advice to or representation of a bureau, acquire information of the type described in paragraph (a) of this section, shall report the information to the reporting employee's supervisor, the Chief or Legal Counsel, or the Deputy General Counsel, who shall report such information to the relevant Inspector General.
(c) This section does not cover matters addressed through employee grievances, equal employment opportunity complaints, Merit Systems Protection Board appeals, classification appeals, or other matters for which separate, formal systems have been established.

§ 0.204   Prohibition of reprisal for reporting suspected misconduct.

Any employee who has authority to take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve any personnel action, shall not, with respect to such authority, take or threaten to take any action against any employee as a reprisal for providing any information in accordance with § 0.203 of this part or through other processes established by law. However, if an employee makes a complaint or discloses information with the knowledge that it was false, or with willful disregard of its truth or falsity, such conduct may be grounds for disciplinary action, and such action shall not constitute reprisal.

§ 0.205   Controlled substances and intoxicants.

Employees shall not sell, offer to sell, buy, offer to buy, use, or possess, controlled substances in violation of federal law. Employees shall not use or be under the influence of alcohol in a manner that adversely affects their work performance. Employees may consume alcohol on Department property only when authorized in accordance with Department or bureau policies and directives.

§ 0.206   Strikes.

Employees shall not participate in a labor strike, work stoppage, or work slowdown against the government.

§ 0.207   Possession of weapons or explosives.

(a) Employees shall not possess firearms, explosives, or other dangerous weapons, as defined at 40 U.S.C. 5104(a), either openly or concealed, while on Department property or while on official duty.
(b) The prohibition of paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to the possession of authorized weapons or explosives by employees who are required to possess such authorized weapons or explosives in the performance of their official duties.

§ 0.208   Care of agency records.

(a) Employees shall not remove, alter, destroy, mutilate, access, copy, or retain documents or data in the custody of the federal government or provided to them in the course of their employment, without proper authorization.
(b) The term “documents” includes, but is not limited to, any written, printed, typed or other graphic material, recording, computer tape, disk or hard drive, storage medium, blueprint, photograph, or other physical object on which information is recorded, including all copies of the foregoing by whatever means made, and any electronic file, data, or information stored on or created on a government computer, database, application, program, network, or storage medium.

§ 0.209   Disclosure of records or information.

(a) Employees shall not disclose or use official information without proper authority. Employees authorized to make disclosures should respond promptly and courteously to requests from the public for information when permitted to do so by law.
(b) Employees who have access to information that is classified for security reasons in accordance with Executive Order 13526, or any successor Executive Order governing Classified National Security Information, are responsible for its custody and safekeeping, and for assuring that it is not disclosed to unauthorized persons. See 18 U.S.C. 798; 50 U.S.C. 783(a); 31 CFR part 2.
See
18 U.S.C. 798; 50 U.S.C. 783(a); 31 CFR part 2.

§ 0.210   Cooperation with official inquiries.

Employees directed by competent Department or other federal authority to provide oral or written responses to questions, or to provide documents and other materials concerning matters of official interest, shall timely respond fully, truthfully, and, when required, under oath.

§ 0.211   Falsification of official records.

Employees shall not intentionally or with willful disregard make false or misleading statements, orally or in writing, in connection with any matter of official interest. Matters of official interest include, but are not limited to, the following: Official reports and any other official information upon which the Department, the Congress, other government agencies, or the public may act or rely; transactions with the public, government agencies or other government employees; application forms and other forms that serve as a basis for any personnel action; vouchers; time and attendance records, including leave records; work reports of any nature or accounts of any kind; affidavits; record of or data concerning any matter relating to or connected with an employee's duties; personnel records; and reports of any moneys or securities received, held or paid to, for or on behalf of the United States.

§ 0.212   Use of government property.

(a) An employee shall not directly or indirectly use, or allow the use of, government property of any kind, including property leased to the government, for other than officially approved activities. This includes the use of government-provided information technology equipment, internet access, cellular telephones, personal digital assistants, and other devices in a manner that is inconsistent with the Department's policy permitting reasonable personal use. An employee has a positive duty to protect and conserve government property including equipment, supplies, intellectual property, and other property made available, entrusted, or issued to the employee for official use.
(b) Employees shall not use government vehicles for unofficial purposes, including to transport unauthorized passengers. The use of government vehicles for transporting employees between their domiciles and places of employment is prohibited except when authorized by the Secretary pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1344 or other statute.

§ 0.213   Government issued charge cards.

(a) Employees shall not make improper purchases with government contractor-issued charge cards.
(b) Employees shall timely pay undisputed amounts owed on government contractor-issued travel charge cards.

§ 0.214   Conduct while on government property.

(a) Employees must adhere to the regulations that govern the conduct of individuals who are in the buildings or space occupied by, or on grounds of, particular government property.
(b) Employees shall not solicit, make collections, canvass for the sale of any article, or distribute literature or advertising on Department property without appropriate authorization.

§ 0.215   Recording government business.

An employee shall not electronically transmit, or create audio or video recordings of, conversations, meetings, or conferences in the workplace or while conducting business on behalf of the Department, except where authorized.
[[82 FR 47106, Oct. 11, 2017]]

§ 0.216   Influencing legislation or petitioning Congress.

Except for the official handling, through the proper channels, of matters relating to legislation in which the Department has an interest, employees shall not use government time, money, or property to petition a Member of Congress to favor or oppose any legislation or proposed legislation, or to encourage others to do so. This section does not prohibit the use of government time by union representatives to petition a Member of Congress to favor or oppose any legislation or proposed legislation, where permitted by the terms of a collective bargaining agreement.
[[82 FR 47106, Oct. 11, 2017]]

§ 0.217   Nondiscrimination.

(a) Employees shall not discriminate against or harass any other employee, applicant for employment, contractor, or person dealing with the Department on official business on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, political affiliation, marital status, parental status, veterans status, or genetic information.
(b) Supervisors shall not retaliate against an employee for complaining about suspected unlawful discrimination or harassment, seeking accommodation for a disability, or otherwise exercising their right to be free from unlawful discrimination.
(c) An employee who engages in discriminatory or retaliatory conduct may be disciplined under these regulations, as well as other applicable laws. However, this section does not create any enforceable legal rights in any person.

§ 0.218   General conduct prejudicial to the government.

An employee shall not engage in criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct, or other conduct prejudicial to the government.

PART 1—DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a, 553; 31 U.S.C. 301, 321; 31 U.S.C. 3717.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a, 553; 31 U.S.C. 301, 321; 31 U.S.C. 3717.
[Source:52 FR 26305, July 14, 1987, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
52 FR 26305, July 14, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Freedom of Information Act

[Source:84 FR 6325, Feb. 27, 2019, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
84 FR 6325, Feb. 27, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

§ 1.0   General provisions.

(a) This subpart contains the rules that the Department of the Treasury follows in processing requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552 as amended. These regulations apply to all components of the Department of the Treasury. Requests made by individuals for records about themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed under subpart C of part 1 as well as under this subpart.
(b) The components of the Department of the Treasury for the purposes of this subpart are the following offices and bureaus:
(1) The Departmental Offices, which include the offices of:
(i) The Secretary of the Treasury, including immediate staff;
(ii) The Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, including immediate staff;
(iii) The Chief of Staff, including immediate staff;
(iv) The Executive Secretary of the Treasury and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(v) The Under Secretary (International Affairs) and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(vi) The Under Secretary (Domestic Finance) and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(vii) The Director of the Community Development Financial Institution Fund and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(viii) The Director of the Office of Financial Research and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(ix) The Under Secretary (Terrorism and Financial Intelligence) and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(x) The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xi) The General Counsel and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff, but not including legal counsel to the components listed in paragraphs (b)(2) through (10) of this section;
(xii) The Treasurer of the United States, including immediate staff;
(xiii) The Assistant Secretary (Legislative Affairs) and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xiv) The Assistant Secretary (Public Affairs) and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xv) The Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy) and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xvi) The Assistant Secretary (Tax Policy) and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xvii) The Assistant Secretary (Management) and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff; and
(xviii) [Reserved]
(xix) The Inspector General and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(2) The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau;
(3) The Bureau of Engraving and Printing;
(4) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service;
(5) The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network;
(6) The Internal Revenue Service;
(7) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
(8) The United States Mint;
(9) The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration;
(10) The Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
(c) Any Treasury office which is now in existence or may hereafter be established, which is not specifically listed above and is not a subsidiary unit of a component of those listed above, shall be deemed a part of the Departmental Offices for the purpose of these regulations.
(d) The head of each component is hereby authorized to substitute the official designated and change the address specified in the appendix to this subpart applicable to that component. Components may issue supplementary regulations applicable only to the component in question, which (except with respect to fee schedules) shall be consistent with these regulations. Persons interested in the records of a particular component should, therefore, also consult the Code of Federal Regulations for any rules or regulations promulgated specifically with respect to that component (see Appendices to this subpart for cross references). In the event of any actual or apparent inconsistency, these Departmental regulations shall govern.
(e) Each component shall preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this subpart, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the National Archives and Records Administration. Records that are identified as responsive to a request will not be disposed of or destroyed while they are the subject of a pending request, administrative appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.
(f) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the FOIA.

§ 1.1   Proactive disclosure of Department records.

(a) Records that are required by the FOIA to be made available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through the Department's website, http://www.treasury.gov, and/or on the website of the component that maintains such records. The FOIA office of each component is responsible for determining which of the component's records are required to be made publicly available, as well as identifying additional records of interest to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and for posting such records. Each component has a FOIA Public Liaison who can assist individuals in locating records particular to that component. A list of the Department's FOIA Public Liaisons is available at: https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act.
http://www.treasury.gov,
and/or on the website of the component that maintains such records. The FOIA office of each component is responsible for determining which of the component's records are required to be made publicly available, as well as identifying additional records of interest to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and for posting such records. Each component has a FOIA Public Liaison who can assist individuals in locating records particular to that component. A list of the Department's FOIA Public Liaisons is available at:
https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act.
(b) When a component receives three or more requests for the same records, it shall make available for public inspection in an electronic format, any records released in response to those requests.

§ 1.2   Requirements for making requests.

(a) General information. (1) Requests should be addressed to the FOIA office of the component that maintains the requested records. The appendices to this subpart list the addresses of each FOIA office and the methods for submitting requests to each component. Requesters are encouraged to submit requests online (through FOIA.gov, component web pages or by completing the “Submit an Online Request” form located at https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act.
General information.
(1) Requests should be addressed to the FOIA office of the component that maintains the requested records. The appendices to this subpart list the addresses of each FOIA office and the methods for submitting requests to each component. Requesters are encouraged to submit requests online (through
FOIA.gov
, component web pages or by completing the “Submit an Online Request” form located at
https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act.
(2) When a requester is unable to determine the appropriate Departmental component to which to direct a request, the requester may send the request to Freedom of Information Act Request, Department of the Treasury, Departmental Offices (DO), Director, FOIA and Transparency, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220. The FOIA and Transparency team will forward the request to the component(s) that it determines to be most likely to maintain the records that are sought.
(3) A requester who is making a request for records about himself or herself must comply with the verification of identity provision set forth in section 1.26 of subpart C of this part.
(4) Where a request for records pertains to a third party, a requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by that individual or a declaration by that individual made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746, authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or submitting proof that the individual is deceased (e.g., a copy of a death certificate). As an exercise of its administrative discretion, each component can require a requester to supply additional information, if necessary, in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.
e.g.,
a copy of a death certificate). As an exercise of its administrative discretion, each component can require a requester to supply additional information, if necessary, in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.
(b) Description of records sought. Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Department personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist a component in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Requesters should refer to the Appendices of this subpart for additional component-specific requirements. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records that they are seeking. If the requester fails to reasonably describe the records sought, the component shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is deficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the component's designated FOIA contact or the FOIA Public Liaison. When a requester fails to provide sufficient detail after having been asked to clarify a request, the component shall notify the requester that the request has not been properly made and that the request will be administratively closed.
Description of records sought.
Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Department personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist a component in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Requesters should refer to the Appendices of this subpart for additional component-specific requirements. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records that they are seeking. If the requester fails to reasonably describe the records sought, the component shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is deficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the component's designated FOIA contact or the FOIA Public Liaison. When a requester fails to provide sufficient detail after having been asked to clarify a request, the component shall notify the requester that the request has not been properly made and that the request will be administratively closed.

§ 1.3   Responsibility for responding to requests.

(a) In general. The component that first receives a request for a record and maintains that record is the component responsible for responding to the request. In determining which records are responsive to a request, a component ordinarily will include only records in its possession as of the date that it begins its search. If any other date is used, the component shall inform the requester of that date. A record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), shall not be considered responsive to a request.
In general.
The component that first receives a request for a record and maintains that record is the component responsible for responding to the request. In determining which records are responsive to a request, a component ordinarily will include only records in its possession as of the date that it begins its search. If any other date is used, the component shall inform the requester of that date. A record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), shall not be considered responsive to a request.
(b) Authority to grant or deny requests. The head of a component, or designee, is authorized to grant or to deny any requests for records that are maintained by that component.
Authority to grant or deny requests.
The head of a component, or designee, is authorized to grant or to deny any requests for records that are maintained by that component.
(c) Re-routing of misdirected requests. When a component's FOIA office determines that a request was misdirected within the agency, the receiving component's FOIA office must route the request to the FOIA office of the proper component(s) within the agency.
Re-routing of misdirected requests.
When a component's FOIA office determines that a request was misdirected within the agency, the receiving component's FOIA office must route the request to the FOIA office of the proper component(s) within the agency.
(d) Consultation, referral, and coordination. When reviewing records located by a component in response to a request, the component will determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, the agency must proceed in one of the following ways:
Consultation, referral, and coordination.
When reviewing records located by a component in response to a request, the component will determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, the agency must proceed in one of the following ways:
(1) Consultation. When records originated with the component processing the request, but contain within them information of interest to another agency or other Federal Government office, the agency processing the request should typically consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
Consultation.
When records originated with the component processing the request, but contain within them information of interest to another agency or other Federal Government office, the agency processing the request should typically consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
(2) Referral. (i) When the component processing the request believes that a different agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, the component typically should refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record is presumed to be the best agency to make the disclosure determination. However, if the component processing the request is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.
Referral.
(i) When the component processing the request believes that a different agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, the component typically should refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record is presumed to be the best agency to make the disclosure determination. However, if the component processing the request is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.
(ii) Whenever a component refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, it must document the referral, maintain a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral, informing the requester of the name(s) of the agency to which the record was referred, including that agency's FOIA contact information.
(3) Coordination. The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For example, if a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if an agency locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, the agency that received the request should coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosability of the record. The release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination should then be conveyed to the requester by the agency that originally received the request.
Coordination.
The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For example, if a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if an agency locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, the agency that received the request should coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosability of the record. The release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination should then be conveyed to the requester by the agency that originally received the request.
(4) Timing of responses to consultations and referrals. All consultations and referrals will be handled according to the date that the FOIA request was initially received by the component or other agency of the Federal government.
Timing of responses to consultations and referrals.
All consultations and referrals will be handled according to the date that the FOIA request was initially received by the component or other agency of the Federal government.
(5) Agreements regarding consultations and referrals. Components may establish agreements with other Treasury components or agencies of the Federal government to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals with respect to particular types of records.
Agreements regarding consultations and referrals.
Components may establish agreements with other Treasury components or agencies of the Federal government to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals with respect to particular types of records.
(e) Classified information. On receipt of any request involving classified information, the component shall take appropriate action to ensure compliance with part 2 of this title and with all other laws and regulations relating to proper handling of classified information. Whenever a request involves a record containing information that has been classified or may be appropriate for classification by another component or agency under any applicable executive order concerning the classification of records, the receiving component shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the component or agency that classified the information, or that should consider the information for classification. Whenever a component's record contains information that has been derivatively classified, i.e., it contains information classified by another component or agency of the Federal government, the component shall refer the responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the component or agency that classified the underlying information.
Classified information.
On receipt of any request involving classified information, the component shall take appropriate action to ensure compliance with part 2 of this title and with all other laws and regulations relating to proper handling of classified information. Whenever a request involves a record containing information that has been classified or may be appropriate for classification by another component or agency under any applicable executive order concerning the classification of records, the receiving component shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the component or agency that classified the information, or that should consider the information for classification. Whenever a component's record contains information that has been derivatively classified,
i.e.,
it contains information classified by another component or agency of the Federal government, the component shall refer the responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the component or agency that classified the underlying information.

§ 1.4   Responses to requests.

(a) In general. Components ordinarily will respond to requests according to their order of receipt. The Appendices to this subpart contain the list of the Departmental components that are designated to accept requests. In instances involving misdirected requests, i.e., where a request is sent to one of the components designated in the Appendices but is actually seeking records maintained by another component, the response time will commence on the date that the request is received by the appropriate component, but in any event not later than ten working days after the request is first received.
In general.
Components ordinarily will respond to requests according to their order of receipt. The Appendices to this subpart contain the list of the Departmental components that are designated to accept requests. In instances involving misdirected requests,
i.e.,
where a request is sent to one of the components designated in the Appendices but is actually seeking records maintained by another component, the response time will commence on the date that the request is received by the appropriate component, but in any event not later than ten working days after the request is first received.
(b) Multitrack processing. All components must designate a specific track for requests that are granted expedited processing, in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. A component may also designate additional processing tracks that distinguish between simple and more complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. A component can consider factors such as the number of pages involved in processing the request or the need for consultations or referrals. Components shall advise requesters of the track into which their request falls and, when appropriate, shall offer the requesters an opportunity to narrow their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.
Multitrack processing.
All components must designate a specific track for requests that are granted expedited processing, in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. A component may also designate additional processing tracks that distinguish between simple and more complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. A component can consider factors such as the number of pages involved in processing the request or the need for consultations or referrals. Components shall advise requesters of the track into which their request falls and, when appropriate, shall offer the requesters an opportunity to narrow their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.
(c) Unusual circumstances. Whenever the statutory time limits for processing a request cannot be met because of “unusual circumstances,” as defined in the FOIA, and the component extends the time limits on that basis, the component shall, before expiration of the twenty-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which processing of the request can be expected to be completed. Where the extension exceeds ten working days, the component shall, as described by the FOIA, provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or agree to an alternative time period for processing. The component shall make available its designated FOIA contact or its FOIA Public Liaison for this purpose. The component must also alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services to provide dispute resolution services.
Unusual circumstances.
Whenever the statutory time limits for processing a request cannot be met because of “unusual circumstances,” as defined in the FOIA, and the component extends the time limits on that basis, the component shall, before expiration of the twenty-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which processing of the request can be expected to be completed. Where the extension exceeds ten working days, the component shall, as described by the FOIA, provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or agree to an alternative time period for processing. The component shall make available its designated FOIA contact or its FOIA Public Liaison for this purpose. The component must also alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services to provide dispute resolution services.
(d) Aggregating requests. For the purposes of identifying unusual circumstances under the FOIA, components may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. Components will not aggregate multiple requests that involve unrelated matters.
Aggregating requests.
For the purposes of identifying unusual circumstances under the FOIA, components may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. Components will not aggregate multiple requests that involve unrelated matters.
(e) Expedited processing. (1) Requests and appeals will be processed on an expedited basis only upon request and when it is determined that they involve:
Expedited processing.
(1) Requests and appeals will be processed on an expedited basis only upon request and when it is determined that they involve:
(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;
(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal government activity, if made by a person who is primarily engaged in disseminating information. The standard of “urgency to inform” requires that the records requested pertain to a matter of current exigency to the public and that delaying a response to a request for records would compromise a significant recognized interest to and throughout the general public; or
(iii) The loss of substantial due process rights.
(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. Requests must be submitted to the component that maintains the records requested. The time period for making the determination on the request for expedited processing under this section shall commence on the date that the component receives the request.
(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. As a matter of administrative discretion, a component may waive the formal certification requirement.
(4) A requester seeking expedited processing under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that he or she is a person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request—one that extends beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally.
(5) A component shall notify the requester within ten calendar days of the receipt of a request for expedited processing of its decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request shall be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and shall be processed as soon as practicable. If a component denies expedited processing, any appeal of that decision that complies with the procedures set forth in § 1.6 of this subpart shall be acted on expeditiously.
(f) Acknowledgments of requests. Upon receipt of a request that will take longer than ten business days to process, a component shall send the requester an acknowledgment letter that assigns the request an individualized tracking number. The component shall also include in the acknowledgment a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of their requests.
Acknowledgments of requests.
Upon receipt of a request that will take longer than ten business days to process, a component shall send the requester an acknowledgment letter that assigns the request an individualized tracking number. The component shall also include in the acknowledgment a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of their requests.
(g) Grants of requests. Once a component makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, it shall notify the requester in writing. The component also shall inform the requester of any fees charged under § 1.7 of this subpart and shall disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. The component must also inform the requester of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.
Grants of requests.
Once a component makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, it shall notify the requester in writing. The component also shall inform the requester of any fees charged under § 1.7 of this subpart and shall disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. The component must also inform the requester of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.
(h) Adverse determinations of requests. A component making an adverse determination denying a request in any respect shall notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: The requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters, and denials of requests for expedited processing.
Adverse determinations of requests.
A component making an adverse determination denying a request in any respect shall notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: The requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters, and denials of requests for expedited processing.
(i) Content of denial letter. The denial letter shall be signed by the head of the component, or FOIA designee, and shall include, when applicable:
Content of denial letter.
The denial letter shall be signed by the head of the component, or FOIA designee, and shall include, when applicable:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied by the component in denying the request; and
(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, for example, by providing the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation. This estimation is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part, or if the estimate would cause a harm protected by one of the exemptions.
(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 1.6(a) of this subpart, and a description of the requirements set forth therein.
(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the component's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by the Office of Government Information Services.
(j) Markings on released documents. Records disclosed in part must be marked clearly to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted shall also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.
Markings on released documents.
Records disclosed in part must be marked clearly to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted shall also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.
(k) Use of record exclusions. (1) In the event a component identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), the component shall consult with the Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy (OIP), before applying the exclusion.
Use of record exclusions.
(1) In the event a component identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), the component shall consult with the Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy (OIP), before applying the exclusion.
(2) A component invoking an exclusion must maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and of the consultation with OIP.

§ 1.5   Confidential commercial information.

(a) Definitions—(1) Confidential commercial information means trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained by the Department from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA.
Definitions
—(1)
Confidential commercial information
means trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained by the Department from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA.
(2) Submitter means any person or entity from whom the Department obtains confidential commercial information, directly or indirectly.
Submitter
means any person or entity from whom the Department obtains confidential commercial information, directly or indirectly.
(3) Designation of confidential commercial information. A submitter of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or within a reasonable time thereafter, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations will expire ten years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.
Designation of confidential commercial information.
A submitter of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or within a reasonable time thereafter, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations will expire ten years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.
(b) When notice to submitters is required. (1) A component shall promptly provide written notice to a submitter whenever:
When notice to submitters is required.
(1) A component shall promptly provide written notice to a submitter whenever:
(i) The requested confidential commercial information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(ii) The component has a reason to believe that the requested confidential commercial information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA.
(2) The notice shall either describe the confidential commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, notice may be made by posting or publishing the notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to accomplish it.
(c) Exceptions to submitter notice requirements. The notice requirements of this section shall not apply if:
Exceptions to submitter notice requirements.
The notice requirements of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The component determines that the confidential commercial information is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA;
(2) The confidential commercial information lawfully has been published or has been officially made available to the public; or
(3) Disclosure of the confidential commercial information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987;
(d) Opportunity to object to disclosure. (1) A component will specify a reasonable time period as determined within its administrative discretion within which the submitter must respond to the notice referenced above. If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide the component a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular confidential commercial information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as a basis for nondisclosure, the submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret, or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
(1) A component will specify a reasonable time period as determined within its administrative discretion within which the submitter must respond to the notice referenced above. If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide the component a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular confidential commercial information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as a basis for nondisclosure, the submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret, or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.
(2) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice shall be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. An objection to disclosure received by the component after the time period specified in the notice will not be considered by the component. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA and/or protected from disclosure by applicable exemptions or by a statute other than the FOIA.
(e) Analysis of objections. A component shall consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested confidential commercial information.
Analysis of objections.
A component shall consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested confidential commercial information.
(f) Notice of intent to disclose. Whenever a component decides to disclose confidential commercial information over the objection of a submitter, the component shall provide the submitter written notice, which shall include:
Notice of intent to disclose.
Whenever a component decides to disclose confidential commercial information over the objection of a submitter, the component shall provide the submitter written notice, which shall include:
(1) A statement of the reasons why each of the submitter's disclosure objections was not sustained;
(2) Copies of the records that the component intends to disclose or, in the alternative, a description of the confidential commercial information to be disclosed; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which shall be a reasonable time subsequent to the notice.
(g) Notice of FOIA lawsuit. Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, the component shall promptly notify the submitter.
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, the component shall promptly notify the submitter.
(h) Requester notification. The component shall notify a requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested confidential commercial information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the confidential commercial information.
Requester notification.
The component shall notify a requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested confidential commercial information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the confidential commercial information.

§ 1.6   Administrative appeals.

(a) Requirements for making an appeal. Before seeking review by a court of a component's adverse determination, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal. A requester may appeal any adverse determinations denying his or her request to the official specified in the appropriate appendix to this subpart. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in § 1.4(h) of this subpart. The requester must make the appeal in writing and to be considered timely it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the date of the component's final response. The appeal letter should clearly identify the component's determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number. The requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
Requirements for making an appeal.
Before seeking review by a court of a component's adverse determination, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal. A requester may appeal any adverse determinations denying his or her request to the official specified in the appropriate appendix to this subpart. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in § 1.4(h) of this subpart. The requester must make the appeal in writing and to be considered timely it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the date of the component's final response. The appeal letter should clearly identify the component's determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number. The requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(b) Adjudication of appeals. (1) The FOIA appeal official or designee specified in the appropriate appendix will act on all appeals under this section.
Adjudication of appeals.
(1) The FOIA appeal official or designee specified in the appropriate appendix will act on all appeals under this section.
(2) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.
(3) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the FOIA appeal official or designee must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.
(c) Decision on appeals. A decision on an appeal must be made in writing by the component within 20 business days after receipt of the appeal. A decision that upholds a component's determination must contain a statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision must provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and will inform the requester of the mediation services offered by the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If a component's decision is remanded or modified on appeal the requester will be notified of that determination in writing. The component will then further process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and respond directly to the requester. Appeals that have not been postmarked or transmitted within the specified time frame will be considered untimely and will be administratively closed with written notice to the requester.
Decision on appeals.
A decision on an appeal must be made in writing by the component within 20 business days after receipt of the appeal. A decision that upholds a component's determination must contain a statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision must provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and will inform the requester of the mediation services offered by the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If a component's decision is remanded or modified on appeal the requester will be notified of that determination in writing. The component will then further process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and respond directly to the requester. Appeals that have not been postmarked or transmitted within the specified time frame will be considered untimely and will be administratively closed with written notice to the requester.
(d) Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by Office of Government Information Services (OGIS). Mediation is a voluntary process. If a component agrees to participate in the mediation services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by Office of Government Information Services (OGIS).
Mediation is a voluntary process. If a component agrees to participate in the mediation services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.

§ 1.7   Fees.

(a) In general. Components may charge for processing requests under the FOIA in accordance with the provisions of this section or may issue their own fee schedules as long as they are consistent with the OMB Guidelines. In order to resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, a component may contact a requester for additional information. A component ordinarily will collect all applicable fees before sending copies of records to a requester. Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States, or by other means specified at https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act.
In general.
Components may charge for processing requests under the FOIA in accordance with the provisions of this section or may issue their own fee schedules as long as they are consistent with the OMB Guidelines. In order to resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, a component may contact a requester for additional information. A component ordinarily will collect all applicable fees before sending copies of records to a requester. Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States, or by other means specified at
https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act.
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Commercial-use request is a request for information for a use or a purpose that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation.
Commercial-use request
is a request for information for a use or a purpose that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation.
(2) Direct costs are those expenses that a component expends in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial-use requests, reviewing) records in order to respond to a FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (i.e., the basic rate of pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses such as the costs of space, and of heating or lighting a facility. Components shall ensure that searches, review, and duplication are conducted in the most efficient and the least expensive manner.
Direct costs
are those expenses that a component expends in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial-use requests, reviewing) records in order to respond to a FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (
i.e.,
the basic rate of pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses such as the costs of space, and of heating or lighting a facility. Components shall ensure that searches, review, and duplication are conducted in the most efficient and the least expensive manner.
(3) Duplication is reproducing a copy of a record or of the information contained in it, necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Copies can take the form of paper, audiovisual materials, or electronic records, among others.
Duplication
is reproducing a copy of a record or of the information contained in it, necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Copies can take the form of paper, audiovisual materials, or electronic records, among others.
(4) Educational institution is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this category must show that the request is made in connection with the requester's role at the educational institution. Components may seek assurance from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
Educational institution
is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this category must show that the request is made in connection with the requester's role at the educational institution. Components may seek assurance from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(5) Noncommercial scientific institution is an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. A requester in this category must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further scientific research and not for a commercial use.
Noncommercial scientific institution
is an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. A requester in this category must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further scientific research and not for a commercial use.
(6) Representative of the news media is any person or entity that actively gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public. A request for records that supports the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity shall be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, components shall also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination.
Representative of the news media
is any person or entity that actively gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public. A request for records that supports the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity shall be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, components shall also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination.
(7) Other requester refers to a requester who does not fall within any of the previously described categories.
Other requester
refers to a requester who does not fall within any of the previously described categories.
(8) Review is the examination of a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes time spent processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including the process of redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review time also includes time spent obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure made by a confidential commercial information submitter under § 1.5 of this subpart, but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed.
Review
is the examination of a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes time spent processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including the process of redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review time also includes time spent obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure made by a confidential commercial information submitter under § 1.5 of this subpart, but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed.
(9) Search is the process of looking for and retrieving records or information responsive to a request. Search time includes time devoted to page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records; and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
Search
is the process of looking for and retrieving records or information responsive to a request. Search time includes time devoted to page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records; and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
(c) Charging fees. Unless a component has issued a separate fee schedule, or a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under paragraph (k) of this section, components shall charge the following fees. Because the fee amounts provided below already account for the direct costs associated with a given fee type, components should not add any additional costs to those charges.
Charging fees.
Unless a component has issued a separate fee schedule, or a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under paragraph (k) of this section, components shall charge the following fees. Because the fee amounts provided below already account for the direct costs associated with a given fee type, components should not add any additional costs to those charges.
(1) Search. (i) Search fees shall be charged for all requests, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. Components will charge search fees for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. Components may properly charge for time spent searching even if they do not locate any responsive records or if they determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.
Search.
(i) Search fees shall be charged for all requests, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. Components will charge search fees for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. Components may properly charge for time spent searching even if they do not locate any responsive records or if they determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.
(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fees shall be as follows: executive—$21; professional—$16.50; and administrative—$13.00.
(iii) In addition, requesters will be charged the direct costs associated with the creation of any new computer program required to locate the requested records.
(2) Duplication. Duplication fees will be charged to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. A component shall honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where it is readily reproducible by the component in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, the component will provide one copy per request at a cost of $0.15 per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, other forms of duplication, or other electronic media, components will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents must be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester shall pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials, including operator's time. For other forms of duplication, components will charge the direct costs.
Duplication.
Duplication fees will be charged to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. A component shall honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where it is readily reproducible by the component in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, the component will provide one copy per request at a cost of $0.15 per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, other forms of duplication, or other electronic media, components will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents must be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester shall pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials, including operator's time. For other forms of duplication, components will charge the direct costs.
(3) Review. Review fees will only be charged to requesters who make commercial-use requests. Review fees will be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record, i.e., the review conducted by a component to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, when the appellate authority determines that a particular exemption no longer applies, any costs associated with a component's re-review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review fees will be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
Review.
Review fees will only be charged to requesters who make commercial-use requests. Review fees will be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record,
i.e.,
the review conducted by a component to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, when the appellate authority determines that a particular exemption no longer applies, any costs associated with a component's re-review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review fees will be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(d) Restrictions on charging fees. (1) No search fees will be charged for requests by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media (unless the records are sought for commercial use).
Restrictions on charging fees.
(1) No search fees will be charged for requests by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media (unless the records are sought for commercial use).
(2) If a component fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request, it may not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) If a component has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply and the agency provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional ten days.
(ii) If a component has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply, and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, the component may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, may charge duplication fees if the following steps are taken. The component must have provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA and the component must have discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is satisfied, the component may charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.
(iii) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist as defined in the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(3) No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(4) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, components will provide without charge:
(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and
(ii) The first two hours of search.
(5) When, after first deducting the 100 free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first two hours of search, a total fee calculated under paragraph (c) of this section is $25.00 or less for any request, no fee will be charged.
(e) Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00. When a component determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, the component shall notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the component shall advise the requester accordingly. In cases in which a requester has been notified that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request shall not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee. Such a commitment must be made by the requester in writing, must indicate a given dollar amount the requester is willing to pay, and must be received by the component within 30 calendar days from the date of notification of the fee estimate. If a commitment is not received within this period, the requester shall be notified, in writing, that the request shall be closed. Components will inform the requester of their right to seek assistance from the appropriate component FOIA Public Liaison or other FOIA professional to assist the requester in reformulating request in an effort to reduce fees. Components are not required to accept payments in installments. If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the component estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the component will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. The Component will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
When a component determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, the component shall notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the component shall advise the requester accordingly. In cases in which a requester has been notified that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request shall not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee. Such a commitment must be made by the requester in writing, must indicate a given dollar amount the requester is willing to pay, and must be received by the component within 30 calendar days from the date of notification of the fee estimate. If a commitment is not received within this period, the requester shall be notified, in writing, that the request shall be closed. Components will inform the requester of their right to seek assistance from the appropriate component FOIA Public Liaison or other FOIA professional to assist the requester in reformulating request in an effort to reduce fees. Components are not required to accept payments in installments. If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the component estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the component will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. The Component will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
(f) Charges for other services. Although not required to provide special services, if a component chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service will be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.
Charges for other services.
Although not required to provide special services, if a component chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service will be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.
(g) Charging interest. Components may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the billing date until payment is received by the component. Components will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
Charging interest.
Components may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the billing date until payment is received by the component. Components will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(h) Aggregating requests. When a component reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the component may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. Components may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, components will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters will not be aggregated.
Aggregating requests.
When a component reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the component may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. Components may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, components will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters will not be aggregated.
(i) Advance payments. (1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section, a component shall not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (i.e., payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.
Advance payments.
(1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section, a component shall not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (
i.e.,
payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.
(2) When a component determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. A component may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.
(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any component or agency within 30 calendar days of the billing date, a component may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request and the component may require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before the component begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request, or any pending appeal. Where a component has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented his or her identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.
(4) In cases in which a component requires advance payment, the request shall not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of the component's fee determination letter, the request will be closed.
(j) Other statutes specifically providing for fees. The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires an agency to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances where records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily-based fee schedule program, the component will inform the requester of the contact information for that source.
Other statutes specifically providing for fees.
The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires an agency to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances where records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily-based fee schedule program, the component will inform the requester of the contact information for that source.
(k) Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees. (1) Requesters may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written application demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) Requesters may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written application demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(2) A component must furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a reduced rate when it determines, based on all available information, that disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. In deciding whether this standard is satisfied the component must consider the factors described in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section:
(i) Disclosure of the requested information would shed light on the operations or activities of the government. The subject of the request must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.
(ii) Disclosure of the requested information would be likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:
(A) Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that is already in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding.
(B) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public must be considered. Components will presume that a representative of the news media will satisfy this consideration.
(iii) The disclosure must not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. To determine whether disclosure of the requested information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, components will consider the following criteria:
(A) Components must identify whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, or profit interest. Requesters must be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.
(B) If there is an identified commercial interest, the component must determine whether that is the primary interest furthered by the request. A waiver or reduction of fees is justified when the requirements of paragraphs (k)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are satisfied and any commercial interest is not the primary interest furthered by the request. Components ordinarily will presume that when a news media requester has satisfied the requirements of paragraphs (k)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, the request is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return will not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(3) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver shall be granted for those records.
(4) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to the component and should address the criteria referenced above. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester shall be required to pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
(5) The requester shall be notified in writing of the decision to grant or deny the fee waiver.

Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 1—Departmental Offices

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Departmental Offices as defined in 31 CFR 1.1(b)(1).
In general.
This appendix applies to the Departmental Offices as defined in 31 CFR 1.1(b)(1).
2. Public Reading Room. The public reading room for the Departmental Offices is the Treasury Library. The library is located in the Freedman's Bank Building (Treasury Annex), Room 1020, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220. For building security purposes, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling 202-622-0990. Treasury also maintains an electronic reading room, which may be accessed at https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act.
Public Reading Room.
The public reading room for the Departmental Offices is the Treasury Library. The library is located in the Freedman's Bank Building (Treasury Annex), Room 1020, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220. For building security purposes, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling 202-622-0990. Treasury also maintains an electronic reading room, which may be accessed at
https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act.
3. Requests for records.
Requests for records.
(a) Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of the Departmental Offices will be made by the Director for FOIA and Transparency, or the designee of such official, with the exception of initial determinations by the Office of the Inspector General and the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which will be made by the designee of the respective Inspector General.
(b) Requests for records should be sent to: Freedom of Information Request, Departmental Offices, Director, FOIA and Transparency, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220. Requests may also be submitted via email at FOIA@treasury.gov.
FOIA@treasury.gov.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
(a) Appellate determinations with respect to records of the Departmental Offices or requests for expedited processing will be made by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Privacy, Transparency, and Records, or the designee of such official, with the exception of appellate determinations by the Office of the Inspector General and the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which will be made by the respective Inspector General or his or her designee.
(b) Appeals should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Appeal, Departmental Offices, FOIA and Transparency, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220. Appeals may also be submitted via email at FOIA@treasury.gov.
FOIA@treasury.gov.

Appendix B to Subpart A of Part 1—Internal Revenue Service

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). See also 26 CFR 601.702.
In general.
This appendix applies to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). See also 26 CFR 601.702.
2. Public reading room. The IRS no longer maintains physical reading rooms. Documents for the public are found on various websites at irs.gov including the electronic FOIA Reading Room located at https://www.irs.gov/uac/electronic-reading-room.
Public reading room.
The IRS no longer maintains physical reading rooms. Documents for the public are found on various websites at
irs.gov
including the electronic FOIA Reading Room located at
https://www.irs.gov/uac/electronic-reading-room.
3. Requests for records. Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of the IRS, grant expedited processing, grant a fee waiver, or determine requester category will be made by those officials specified in 26 CFR 601.702.
Requests for records.
Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of the IRS, grant expedited processing, grant a fee waiver, or determine requester category will be made by those officials specified in 26 CFR 601.702.
Requests for records should be submitted to the IRS using the information below:
IRS accepts FOIA requests by fax or by mail
If your request is for IRS Headquarters Office records concerning matters of nationwide applicability, such as published guidance (regulations and revenue rulings), program management, operations, or policies, including National or Headquarters Offices of Chief Counsel records that are not available at the Electronic FOIA Reading Room site:
If your request is for your own records or other records controlled at IRS field locations including Division Counsel offices that are not available at the Electronic FOIA Reading Room site:
Fax: 877-807-9215, Mail: IRS FOIA Request, Stop 211, PO Box 621506, Atlanta, GA 30362-3006
Fax: 877-891-6035, Mail: IRS FOIA Request, Stop 93A, Post Office Box 621506, Atlanta GA 30362-3006.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records. Appellate determinations with respect to records of the Internal Revenue Service will be made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or the delegate of such officer. Appeals must be in writing and addressed to: IRS Appeals Attention: FOIA Appeals, M/Stop 55202, 5045 E Butler Ave., Fresno, CA 93727-5136.
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Appellate determinations with respect to records of the Internal Revenue Service will be made by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or the delegate of such officer. Appeals must be in writing and addressed to: IRS Appeals Attention: FOIA Appeals, M/Stop 55202, 5045 E Butler Ave., Fresno, CA 93727-5136.

Appendix C to Subpart A of Part 1—Bureau of Engraving and Printing

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP).
In general.
This appendix applies to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP).
2. Public reading room. BEP's public reading room is located at 14th and C Streets SW, Washington, DC 20228. Individuals wishing to visit the public reading room must request an appointment by telephoning (202) 874-2500. The reading room is open on official business days from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. eastern standard time. Visitors shall comply with 31 CFR part 605, governing the conduct of persons within the buildings and grounds of the BEP. In addition, BEP also maintains an electronic reading room, which may be accessed at http://www.bep.gov/bepfoialibrary.html.
Public reading room.
BEP's public reading room is located at 14th and C Streets SW, Washington, DC 20228. Individuals wishing to visit the public reading room must request an appointment by telephoning (202) 874-2500. The reading room is open on official business days from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. eastern standard time. Visitors shall comply with 31 CFR part 605, governing the conduct of persons within the buildings and grounds of the BEP. In addition, BEP also maintains an electronic reading room, which may be accessed at
http://www.bep.gov/bepfoialibrary.html.
3. Requests for records. Initial determinations as to whether to grant or deny requests for records of the BEP or applicable fees will be made by the BEP Director delegate, i.e., Disclosure Officer. Requests may be mailed or faxed to: FOIA/PA Request, Disclosure Officer, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Office of the Chief Counsel—FOIA and Transparency Services, Washington, DC 20228-0001, Fax Number: (202) 874-2951.
Requests for records.
Initial determinations as to whether to grant or deny requests for records of the BEP or applicable fees will be made by the BEP Director delegate,
i.e.,
Disclosure Officer. Requests may be mailed or faxed to: FOIA/PA Request, Disclosure Officer, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Office of the Chief Counsel—FOIA and Transparency Services, Washington, DC 20228-0001, Fax Number: (202) 874-2951.
4. Administrative Appeal of initial determination to deny records. Appellate determinations with respect to records of the BEP will be made by the Director of the BEP or the delegate of the Director for purposes of this section. Appeals may be mailed or delivered in person to: FOIA/PA APPEAL, Director, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Office of the Director, 14th and C Streets SW, Washington, DC 20228-0001.
Administrative Appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Appellate determinations with respect to records of the BEP will be made by the Director of the BEP or the delegate of the Director for purposes of this section. Appeals may be mailed or delivered in person to: FOIA/PA APPEAL, Director, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Office of the Director, 14th and C Streets SW, Washington, DC 20228-0001.

Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 1— Bureau of the Fiscal Service

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
In general.
This appendix applies to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
2. Public reading room. The public reading room for the Bureau of the Fiscal Service is the Treasury Library. The library is located in the Freedman's Bank Building (Treasury Annex), Room 1020, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220. For building security reasons, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling 202-622-0990. Fiscal Service also maintains an electronic reading room, which may be accessed at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/foia/foia_readingroom.htm.
Public reading room.
The public reading room for the Bureau of the Fiscal Service is the Treasury Library. The library is located in the Freedman's Bank Building (Treasury Annex), Room 1020, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220. For building security reasons, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling 202-622-0990. Fiscal Service also maintains an electronic reading room, which may be accessed at
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/foia/foia_readingroom.htm.
3. Requests for records. Initial determinations whether to grant requests for records will be made by the Disclosure Officer, Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Requests may be mailed or delivered in person to:
Requests for records.
Initial determinations whether to grant requests for records will be made by the Disclosure Officer, Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Requests may be mailed or delivered in person to:
Freedom of Information Request, Disclosure Officer, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 401 14th Street SW, Washington, DC 20227.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records. Appellate determinations will be made by the Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or that official's delegate. Appeals may be mailed to: Freedom of Information Appeal (FOIA), Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 401 14th Street SW, Washington, DC 20227.
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Appellate determinations will be made by the Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or that official's delegate. Appeals may be mailed to: Freedom of Information Appeal (FOIA), Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 401 14th Street SW, Washington, DC 20227.
Appeals may be delivered personally to the Office of the Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 401 14th Street SW, Washington, DC.

Appendix E to Subpart A of Part 1—United States Mint

1. In general. This appendix applies to the United States Mint.
In general.
This appendix applies to the United States Mint.
2. Public reading room. The U.S. Mint will provide a room on an ad hoc basis when necessary. Contact the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 7th Floor, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Public reading room.
The U.S. Mint will provide a room on an ad hoc basis when necessary. Contact the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 7th Floor, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
3. Requests for records. Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of the United States Mint will be made by the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, United States Mint. Requests may be mailed or delivered in person to: Freedom of Information Act Request, Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 7th Floor, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Requests for records.
Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of the United States Mint will be made by the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, United States Mint. Requests may be mailed or delivered in person to: Freedom of Information Act Request, Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 7th Floor, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records. Appellate determinations with respect to records of the United States Mint will be made by the Director of the Mint. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Appeal, Director, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 7th Floor, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Appellate determinations with respect to records of the United States Mint will be made by the Director of the Mint. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Appeal, Director, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 7th Floor, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.

Appendix F to Subpart A of Part 1—Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
In general.
This appendix applies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
2. Public reading room. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will make materials available through its Public Information Room at 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Public reading room.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will make materials available through its Public Information Room at 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
3. Requests for records. Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will be made by the Disclosure Officer or the official so designated. Requests may be mailed or delivered in person to: Freedom of Information Act Request, Disclosure Officer, Communications Division, 3rd Floor, Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Requests for records.
Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will be made by the Disclosure Officer or the official so designated. Requests may be mailed or delivered in person to: Freedom of Information Act Request, Disclosure Officer, Communications Division, 3rd Floor, Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records. Appellate determinations with respect to records of the Comptroller of the Currency will be made by the Chief Counsel or delegates of such official. Appeals made by mail shall be addressed to: Communications Division, Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Appellate determinations with respect to records of the Comptroller of the Currency will be made by the Chief Counsel or delegates of such official. Appeals made by mail shall be addressed to: Communications Division, Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Appeals may be delivered personally to the Communications Division, Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC.

Appendix G to Subpart A of Part 1—Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN).
In general.
This appendix applies to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN).
2. Public reading room. FinCEN will provide records on the online reading room located on the FinCEN FOIA page or in the Code of Federal Regulations.
Public reading room.
FinCEN will provide records on the online reading room located on the FinCEN FOIA page or in the Code of Federal Regulations.
3. Requests for records. Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of FinCEN will be made by the Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Officer, FinCEN. Requests for records may be mailed to: Freecom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
Requests for records.
Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of FinCEN will be made by the Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Officer, FinCEN. Requests for records may be mailed to: Freecom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records. Appellate determinations with respect to the records of FinCEN will be made by the Director of FinCEN or the delegate of the Director. Appeals should be mailed to: Freedom of Information Act Appeal, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183, or emailed to: FinCENFOIA@fincen.gov.
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Appellate determinations with respect to the records of FinCEN will be made by the Director of FinCEN or the delegate of the Director. Appeals should be mailed to: Freedom of Information Act Appeal, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183, or emailed to:
FinCENFOIA@fincen.gov.

Appendix H to Subpart A of Part 1—Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB).
In general.
This appendix applies to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB).
2. Public reading room. The public reading room for TTB is maintained at 1310 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20005. For building security purposes, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling 202-882-9904.
Public reading room.
The public reading room for TTB is maintained at 1310 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20005. For building security purposes, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling 202-882-9904.
3. Requests for records. Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of TTB will be made by the Director, Regulations and Rulings Division. Requests for records may be mailed to: TTB FOIA Requester Service Center, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005. Requests may also be faxed to: 202-453-2331.
Requests for records.
Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of TTB will be made by the Director, Regulations and Rulings Division. Requests for records may be mailed to: TTB FOIA Requester Service Center, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005. Requests may also be faxed to: 202-453-2331.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records. Appellate determinations with respect to the records of TTB will be made by the Assistant Administrator (Headquarters Operations), Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau or the delegate of such official. Appeals may be mailed or delivered in person to: FOIA Appeal, Assistant Administrator (Headquarters Operations), Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005.
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Appellate determinations with respect to the records of TTB will be made by the Assistant Administrator (Headquarters Operations), Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau or the delegate of such official. Appeals may be mailed or delivered in person to: FOIA Appeal, Assistant Administrator (Headquarters Operations), Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005.

Appendix I to Subpart A of Part 1—Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA).
In general.
This appendix applies to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA).
2. Public reading room. TIGTA will provide a room upon request when necessary. Contact the Disclosure Branch, Office of Chief Counsel, TIGTA, at 202-622-4068.
Public reading room.
TIGTA will provide a room upon request when necessary. Contact the Disclosure Branch, Office of Chief Counsel, TIGTA, at 202-622-4068.
3. Requests for records. Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of TIGTA will be made by the Disclosure Officer, TIGTA. Requests for records may be mailed to: Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request, Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, Disclosure Branch, 1401 H Street NW, Room 469, Washington, DC 20005. You may also view the How to Make a FOIA Request for TIGTA Records at https://www.treasury.gov/tigta/important_foia_mafr.shtml. TIGTA's FOIA email address is FOIA.Reading.Room@tigta.treas.gov.
Requests for records.
Initial determinations as to whether to grant requests for records of TIGTA will be made by the Disclosure Officer, TIGTA. Requests for records may be mailed to: Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request, Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, Disclosure Branch, 1401 H Street NW, Room 469, Washington, DC 20005. You may also view the How to Make a FOIA Request for TIGTA Records at
https://www.treasury.gov/tigta/important_foia_mafr.shtml.
TIGTA's FOIA email address is
FOIA.Reading.Room@tigta.treas.gov.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records. Appellate determinations with respect to the records of TIGTA will be made by the Chief Counsel, TIGTA, or the delegate of the Chief Counsel. Appeals should be mailed to: Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Appeal, Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, 1401 H Street NW, Room 469, Washington, DC 20005.
Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.
Appellate determinations with respect to the records of TIGTA will be made by the Chief Counsel, TIGTA, or the delegate of the Chief Counsel. Appeals should be mailed to: Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Appeal, Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, 1401 H Street NW, Room 469, Washington, DC 20005.

Subpart B—Other Disclosure Provisions


§ 1.8   Scope.

The regulations in this subpart concern access to information and records other than under 5 U.S.C. 552. This subpart is applicable to the Departmental Offices and to the bureaus of the Department as defined in § 1.1(a) of this part, except to the extent that bureaus of the Department have adopted separate guidance governing the subject matter of a provision of this subpart.
[[69 FR 54003, Sept. 7, 2004]]

§ 1.9   Records not to be otherwise withdrawn or disclosed.

Except in accordance with this part, or as otherwise authorized, Treasury Department officers and employees are prohibited from making records or duplicates available to any person who is not an officer or employee of the Department, and are prohibited from withdrawing any such records or duplicates from the files, possession or control of the Department.
[[69 FR 54003, Sept. 7, 2004]]

§ 1.10   Oral information.

(a) Officers and employees of the Department may, in response to requests, orally provide information contained in records of the Department that are determined to be available to the public. If the obtaining of such information requires a search of records, a written request and the payment of the fee for a record search set forth in § 1.6 will be required.
(b) Information with respect to activities of the Department not a matter of record shall not be disclosed if the information involves matters exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552 or the regulations in this part, or if the disclosure of such information would give the person requesting the information advantages not accorded to other citizens.
[[69 FR 54003, Sept. 7, 2004]]

§ 1.11   Testimony or the production of records in a court or other proceeding.

(a) Applicability. (1) This section sets forth the policies and procedures of the Department regarding the testimony of employees and former employees as witnesses in legal proceedings and the production or disclosure of information contained in Department documents for use in legal proceedings pursuant to a request, order, or subpoena (collectively referred to in this subpart as a demand).
Applicability.
(1) This section sets forth the policies and procedures of the Department regarding the testimony of employees and former employees as witnesses in legal proceedings and the production or disclosure of information contained in Department documents for use in legal proceedings pursuant to a request, order, or subpoena (collectively referred to in this subpart as a demand).
(2) This section does not apply to any legal proceeding in which an employee is to testify while on leave status regarding facts or events that are unrelated to the official business of the Department.
(3)(i) Nothing in this section affects the rights and procedures governing public access to records pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) or the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).
(ii) Demands in legal proceedings for the production of records, or for the testimony of Department employees regarding information protected by the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), the Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. 1905) or other confidentiality statutes, must satisfy the requirements for disclosure set forth in those statutes and the applicable regulations of this part before the records may be provided or testimony given.
(4) This section is intended only to provide guidance for the internal operations of the Department and to inform the public about Department procedures concerning the service of process and responses to demands or requests, and the procedures specified in this section, or the failure of any Treasury employee to follow the procedures specified in this section, are not intended to, do not, and may not be relied upon to create a right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States.
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Agency counsel means:
Agency counsel
means:
(i) With respect to the Departmental Offices, the General Counsel or his or her designee; or
(ii) With respect to a bureau or office of the Department, the Chief Counsel or Legal Counsel (or his or her designee) of such bureau or office.
(2) Demand means a request, order, or subpoena for testimony or documents related to or for possible use in a legal proceeding.
Demand
means a request, order, or subpoena for testimony or documents related to or for possible use in a legal proceeding.
(3) Department means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Department
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
(4) Document means any record or other property, no matter what media and including copies thereof, held by the Department, including without limitation, official letters, telegrams, memoranda, reports, studies, calendar and diary entries, maps, graphs, pamphlets, notes, charts, tabulations, analyses, statistical or informational accumulations, any kind of summaries of meetings and conversations, film impressions, magnetic tapes and sound or mechanical reproductions.
Document
means any record or other property, no matter what media and including copies thereof, held by the Department, including without limitation, official letters, telegrams, memoranda, reports, studies, calendar and diary entries, maps, graphs, pamphlets, notes, charts, tabulations, analyses, statistical or informational accumulations, any kind of summaries of meetings and conversations, film impressions, magnetic tapes and sound or mechanical reproductions.
(5) Employee means all employees or officers of the Department, including contractors and any other individuals who have been appointed by, or are subject to the supervision, jurisdiction or control of the Secretary, as well as the Secretary of the Treasury. The procedures established within this subpart also apply to former employees of the Department where specifically noted.
Employee
means all employees or officers of the Department, including contractors and any other individuals who have been appointed by, or are subject to the supervision, jurisdiction or control of the Secretary, as well as the Secretary of the Treasury. The procedures established within this subpart also apply to former employees of the Department where specifically noted.
(6) General Counsel means the General Counsel of the Department or other Department employee to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority to act under this subpart.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the Department or other Department employee to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority to act under this subpart.
(7) Legal proceeding means all pretrial, trial and post trial stages of all existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before courts, commissions, boards, grand juries, or other tribunals, foreign or domestic. This phrase includes all phases of discovery as well as responses to formal or informal requests by attorneys or others involved in legal proceedings.
Legal proceeding
means all pretrial, trial and post trial stages of all existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before courts, commissions, boards, grand juries, or other tribunals, foreign or domestic. This phrase includes all phases of discovery as well as responses to formal or informal requests by attorneys or others involved in legal proceedings.
(8) Official business means the authorized business of the Department.
Official business
means the authorized business of the Department.
(9) Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
(10) Testimony means a statement in any form, including personal appearances before a court or other legal tribunal, interviews, depositions, telephonic, televised, or videotaped statements or any responses given during discovery or similar proceedings, which response would involve more than the production of documents.
Testimony
means a statement in any form, including personal appearances before a court or other legal tribunal, interviews, depositions, telephonic, televised, or videotaped statements or any responses given during discovery or similar proceedings, which response would involve more than the production of documents.
(c) Department policy. No current or former employee shall, in response to a demand, produce any Department documents, provide testimony regarding any information relating to or based upon Department documents, or disclose any information or produce materials acquired as part of the performance of that employee's official duties or official status, without the prior authorization of the General Counsel or the appropriate agency counsel.
Department policy.
No current or former employee shall, in response to a demand, produce any Department documents, provide testimony regarding any information relating to or based upon Department documents, or disclose any information or produce materials acquired as part of the performance of that employee's official duties or official status, without the prior authorization of the General Counsel or the appropriate agency counsel.
(d) Procedures for demand for testimony or production of documents. (1) A demand directed to the Department for the testimony of a Department employee or for the production of documents shall be served in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, or applicable state procedures and shall be directed to the General Counsel, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220, or to the Chief or Legal Counsel of the concerned Department component. Acceptance of a demand shall not constitute an admission or waiver with respect to jurisdiction, propriety of service, improper venue, or any other defense in law or equity available under the applicable laws or rules.
Procedures for demand for testimony or production of documents.
(1) A demand directed to the Department for the testimony of a Department employee or for the production of documents shall be served in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, or applicable state procedures and shall be directed to the General Counsel, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220, or to the Chief or Legal Counsel of the concerned Department component. Acceptance of a demand shall not constitute an admission or waiver with respect to jurisdiction, propriety of service, improper venue, or any other defense in law or equity available under the applicable laws or rules.
(2) A subpoena or other demand for testimony directed to an employee or former employee shall be served in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil or Criminal Procedure or applicable State procedure and a copy of the subpoena shall be sent to agency counsel.
(3)(i) In court cases in which the United States or the Department is not a party, where the giving of testimony or the production of documents by the Department, or a current or former employee is desired, an affidavit (or if that is not feasible, a statement) by the litigant or the litigant's attorney, setting forth the information with respect to which the testimony or production is desired, must be submitted in order to obtain a decision concerning whether such testimony or production will be authorized. Such information shall include: the title of the legal proceeding, the forum, the requesting party's interest in the legal proceeding, the reason for the demand, a showing that other evidence reasonably suited to the requester's needs is not available from any other source and, if testimony is requested, the intended use of the testimony, a general summary of the desired testimony, and a showing that no document could be provided and used in lieu of testimony. The purpose of this requirement is to assist agency counsel in making an informed decision regarding whether testimony or the production of document should be authorized. Permission to testify or produce documents will, in all cases, be limited to the information set forth in the affidavit or statement, or to such portions thereof as may be deemed proper.
(ii) Agency counsel may consult or negotiate with an attorney for a party, or the party if not represented by an attorney, to refine or limit a demand so that compliance is less burdensome or obtain information necessary to make the determination required by paragraph (e) of this section. Failure of the attorney or party to cooperate in good faith to enable agency counsel to make an informed determination under this subpart may serve, where appropriate, as a basis for a determination not to comply with the demand.
(iii) A determination under this subpart to comply or not to comply with a demand is without prejudice as to any formal assertion or waiver of privilege, lack of relevance, technical deficiency or any other ground for noncompliance.
(4)(i) Employees shall immediately refer all inquiries and demands made on the Department to agency counsel.
(ii) An employee who receives a subpoena shall immediately forward the subpoena to agency counsel. Agency counsel will determine the manner in which to respond to the subpoena.
(e) Factors to be considered by agency counsel. (1) In deciding whether to authorize the release of official information or the testimony of personnel concerning official information (hereafter referred to as “the disclosure”) agency counsel shall consider the following factors:
Factors to be considered by agency counsel.
(1) In deciding whether to authorize the release of official information or the testimony of personnel concerning official information (hereafter referred to as “the disclosure”) agency counsel shall consider the following factors:
(i) Whether the request or demand is unduly burdensome;
(ii) Whether the request would involve the Department in controversial issues unrelated to the Department's mission;
(iii) Whether the time and money of the United States would be used for private purposes;
(iv) The extent to which the time of employees for conducting official business would be compromised;
(v) Whether the public might misconstrue variances between personal opinions of employees and Department policy;
(vi) Whether the request demonstrates that the information requested is relevant and material to the action pending, genuinely necessary to the proceeding, unavailable from other sources, and reasonable in its scope;
(vii) Whether the number of similar requests would have a cumulative effect on the expenditure of agency resources;
(viii) Whether disclosure otherwise would be inappropriate under the circumstances; and
(ix) Any other factor that is appropriate.
(2) Among those demands and requests in response to which compliance will not ordinarily be authorized are those with respect to which any of the following factors exists:
(i) The disclosure would violate a statute, Executive order, or regulation;
(ii) The integrity of the administrative and deliberative processes of the Department would be compromised;
(iii) The disclosure would not be appropriate under the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand arose;
(iv) The disclosure, including release in camera, is not appropriate or necessary under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege;
(v) The disclosure, except when in camera and necessary to assert a claim of privilege, would reveal information properly classified or other matters exempt from unrestricted disclosure; or
(vi) The disclosure would interfere with ongoing enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, reveal the identity of an intelligence source or confidential informant, or disclose trade secrets or similarly confidential commercial or financial information.
(f) Requests for opinion or expert testimony. (1) Subject to 5 CFR 2635.805, an employee or former employee shall not provide, with or without compensation, opinion or expert testimony concerning official information, subjects, or activities, except on behalf of the United States or a party represented by the Department of Justice, without written approval of agency counsel.
Requests for opinion or expert testimony.
(1) Subject to 5 CFR 2635.805, an employee or former employee shall not provide, with or without compensation, opinion or expert testimony concerning official information, subjects, or activities, except on behalf of the United States or a party represented by the Department of Justice, without written approval of agency counsel.
(2) Upon a showing by the requestor of exceptional need or unique circumstances and that the anticipated testimony will not be adverse to the interests of the Department or the United States, agency counsel may, in writing, grant authorization for an employee, or former employee, to appear and testify at no expense to the United States.
(3) Any expert or opinion testimony by a former employee of the Department shall be excepted from § 1.11(f)(1) where the testimony involves only general expertise gained while employed at the Department.
(g) Procedures when agency counsel directs an employee not to testify or provide documents. (1) If agency counsel determines that an employee or former employee should not comply with a subpoena or other request for testimony or the production of documents, agency counsel will so inform the employee and the party who submitted the subpoena or made the request.
Procedures when agency counsel directs an employee not to testify or provide documents.
(1) If agency counsel determines that an employee or former employee should not comply with a subpoena or other request for testimony or the production of documents, agency counsel will so inform the employee and the party who submitted the subpoena or made the request.
(2) If, despite the determination of the agency counsel that testimony should not be given and/or documents not be produced, a court of competent jurisdiction or other appropriate authority orders the employee or former employee to testify and/or produce documents, the employee shall notify agency counsel of such order.
(i) If agency counsel determines that no further legal review of, or challenge to, the order will be sought, the employee or former employee shall comply with the order.
(ii) If agency counsel determines to challenge the order, or that further legal review is necessary, the employee or former employee should not comply with the order. Where necessary, the employee should appear at the time and place set forth in the subpoena. If legal counsel cannot appear on behalf of the employee, the employee should produce a copy of this subpart and respectfully inform the legal tribunal that he/she has been advised by counsel not to provide the requested testimony and/or produce documents. If the legal tribunal rules that the subpoena must be complied with, the employee shall respectfully decline to comply, citing this section and United States ex rel. Touhy v. Ragen, 340 U.S. 462 (1951).
United States
ex rel.
Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).
[[69 FR 54003, Sept. 7, 2004]]

§ 1.12   Regulations not applicable to official request.

The regulations in this part shall not be applicable to official requests of other governmental agencies or officers thereof acting in their official capacities, unless it appears that granting a particular request would be in violation of law or inimical to the public interest. Cases of doubt should be referred for decision to agency counsel (as defined in § 1.11(b)(1)).
[[69 FR 54003, Sept. 7, 2004]]

Subpart C—Privacy Act

[Source:87 FR 63905, Oct. 20, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 63905, Oct. 20, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

§ 1.20   Purpose and scope of this subpart.

(a) The regulations in this subpart are issued to implement the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). This subpart applies to all records which are contained in systems of records maintained by the Department of the Treasury (Department or Treasury). They do not relate to those personnel records of Federal Government employees, which are under the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) jurisdiction to the extent such records are subject to OPM regulations. This subpart applies to all Treasury components. Any reference in this subpart to the Department or its officials, employees, or records must be deemed to refer also to the components or their officials, employees, or records. This subpart sets forth the requirements applicable to Treasury employees (including, to the extent required by the contract or 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), Government contractors and employees of such contractors) maintaining, collecting, using, or disseminating records pertaining to individuals. They also set forth the procedures by which individuals may request notification of whether the Treasury maintains or has disclosed a record pertaining to them or may seek access to such records maintained in any nonexempt system of records, request correction of such records, appeal any initial adverse determination of any request for amendment, or seek an accounting of disclosures of such records. For the convenience of interested persons, Treasury components may reproduce the regulations in this subpart in their entirety (less any appendices not applicable to the component in question) in those titles of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) which normally contain regulations applicable to such components. In connection with such reproduction, and at other appropriate times, components may issue supplementary regulations applicable only to the component in question, which are consistent with the regulations in this subpart. In the event of any actual or apparent inconsistency, the Departmentwide regulations in this subpart must govern. Individuals interested in the records of a particular component should, therefore, also consult the Code of Federal Regulations for any rules or regulations promulgated specifically with respect to that component (see the appendices to this subpart for cross references). The head of each component is hereby also authorized to substitute other appropriate officials for those designated and correct addresses specified in the appendix to this subpart applicable to the component. For purposes of this subpart, Treasury components consist of the following offices and bureaus:
(1) The Departmental Offices, which include the offices of:
(i) The Secretary of the Treasury, including immediate staff;
(ii) The Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, including immediate staff;
(iii) The Chief of Staff, including immediate staff;
(iv) The Executive Secretary of the Treasury, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(v) Under Secretary for the Office of International Affairs, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(vi) Assistant Secretary for the Office of International Trade and Development, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(vii) Assistant Secretary for the Office of International Finance, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(viii) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Investment Security, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(ix) Under Secretary for the Office of Domestic Finance, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(x) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Financial Institutions, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xi) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Financial Markets, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xii) Assistant Secretary for the Office of the Fiscal Service, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xiii) Under Secretary for the Office of Terrorism & Financial Intelligence, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xiv) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xv) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Intelligence and Analysis, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xvi) Office of General Counsel and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff; except legal counsel to the components listed in paragraphs (a)(23) through (26) and (b) through (h) of this section;
(xvii) Treasurer of the United States including immediate staff;
(xviii) Assistant Secretary for the Office for Legislative Affairs, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xix) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Management, and all offices reporting to such official(s), including immediate staff;
(xx) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Public Affairs, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xxi) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Economic Policy, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xxii) Assistant Secretary for the Office of Tax Policy, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xxiii) The Inspector General and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xxiv) The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xxv) The Special Inspector General, Troubled Asset Relief Program, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(xxvi) The Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery, and all offices reporting to such official, including immediate staff;
(2) Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau.
(3) Internal Revenue Service.
(4) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
(5) Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
(6) United States Mint.
(7) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
(8) Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
(b) For purposes of this subpart, the office of the legal counsel for the components listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(xxiii) through (xxvi) and (a)(2) through (8) of this section are to be considered a part of such components. Any office, which is now in existence or may after October 20, 2022 be established, which is not specifically listed or known to be a component of any of those listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section, must be deemed a part of the Departmental Offices for the purpose of this subpart.

§ 1.21   Definitions.

(a) The term agency means agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e).
agency
means agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e).
(b) The term individual means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(c) The term maintain includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
(d) The term record means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Treasury or its components. This includes, but is not limited to, the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the name, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.
record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Treasury or its components. This includes, but is not limited to, the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the name, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.
(e) The term system of records means a group of any records under the control of the Treasury or any component from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
system of records
means a group of any records under the control of the Treasury or any component from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
(f) The term statistical record means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8.
statistical record
means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8.
(g) The term routine use means the disclosure of a record that is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected.
routine use
means the disclosure of a record that is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected.
(h) The term component means a Treasury bureau or office as set forth in § 1.20 and in the appendices to this subpart. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(a).)
component
means a Treasury bureau or office as set forth in § 1.20 and in the appendices to this subpart. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(a).)
(i) The term request for access means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).
request for access
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).
(j) The term request for amendment means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2).
request for amendment
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2).
(k) The term request for accounting means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3).
request for accounting
means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3).
(l) The term Privacy Act means the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).
Privacy Act
means the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).

§ 1.22   Requirements relating to systems of records.

(a) In general. Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) and § 1.23(c), each component shall, in conformance with the Privacy Act:
In general.
Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) and § 1.23(c), each component shall, in conformance with the Privacy Act:
(1) Maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required to be accomplished by the statute or by Executive order of the President. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1).)
(2) Collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(2).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(2).)
(b) Requests for information from individuals. Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and § 1.23(c)(1), each component of the Treasury shall inform each individual whom it asks to supply information, on the form which it uses to collect the information or on a separate form that can be retained by the individual:
Requests for information from individuals.
Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and § 1.23(c)(1), each component of the Treasury shall inform each individual whom it asks to supply information, on the form which it uses to collect the information or on a separate form that can be retained by the individual:
(1) The authority (whether granted by statute, or by Executive order of the President) which authorizes the solicitation of the information and whether disclosure of such information is mandatory or voluntary;
(2) The principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used;
(3) The routine uses which may be made of the information, as published pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(D); and
(4) The effects on such individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3).)
(c) Report on new systems. Each component of the Treasury shall provide adequate advance notice to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) any proposal to establish or alter any system of records in order to permit an evaluation of the probable or potential effect of such proposal on the privacy and other personal or property rights of individuals or the disclosure of information relating to such individuals, and its effect on the preservation of the constitutional principles of federalism and separation of powers. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(o).)
Report on new systems.
Each component of the Treasury shall provide adequate advance notice to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) any proposal to establish or alter any system of records in order to permit an evaluation of the probable or potential effect of such proposal on the privacy and other personal or property rights of individuals or the disclosure of information relating to such individuals, and its effect on the preservation of the constitutional principles of federalism and separation of powers. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(o).)
(d) Accurate and secure maintenance of records. Each component shall:
Accurate and secure maintenance of records.
Each component shall:
(1) Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and § 1.23(c)(1), maintain all records which are used in making any determination about any individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5));
see
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5));
(2) Prior to disseminating any record about an individual to any person other than an agency, unless the dissemination is made pursuant to the Privacy Act (see subpart A of this part), make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely, and relevant for Department of the Treasury purposes (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(6)); and
see
subpart A of this part), make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely, and relevant for Department of the Treasury purposes (
see
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(6)); and
(3) Establish appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to insure the security and confidentiality of records and to protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to their security or integrity which could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to any individual on whom information is maintained. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(10).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(10).)
(i) System managers, with the approval of the head of their offices within a component, shall establish administrative and physical controls, consistent with Department regulations in this part, to insure the protection of records systems from unauthorized access or disclosure and from physical damage or destruction. The controls instituted shall be proportional to the degree of sensitivity of the records but at a minimum must insure that records other than those available to the general public under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), are protected from public view, that the area in which the records are stored is supervised during all business hours and physically secure during nonbusiness hours to prevent unauthorized personnel from obtaining access to the records. Automated systems shall comply with the security standards promulgated by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
(ii) System managers, with the approval of the head of their offices within a component, shall adopt access restrictions to insure that access to the records is limited to those individuals within the agency who have a need to access the records in order to perform their duties. Procedures shall also be adopted to prevent accidental access to, or dissemination of, records.
(e) Prohibition against maintenance of records concerning First Amendment rights. No component shall maintain a record describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment (e.g., speech), unless the maintenance of such record is:
Prohibition against maintenance of records concerning First Amendment rights.
No component shall maintain a record describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment (e.g., speech), unless the maintenance of such record is:
(1) Expressly authorized by statute; or
(2) Expressly authorized by the individual about whom the record is maintained; or
(3) Pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(7).)
(f) Notification of disclosure under compulsory legal process. Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and § 1.23(c)(1), when records concerning an individual are subpoenaed by a Grand Jury, Court, or quasi-judicial agency, or disclosed in accordance with an ex parte court order pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103(i), the official served with the subpoena or court order shall make reasonable efforts to assure that notice of any disclosure is provided to the individual. Notice shall be provided within five working days of making the records available under compulsory legal process or, in the case of a Grand Jury subpoena or an ex parte order, within five days of its becoming a matter of public record. Notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the individual and shall contain the following information: the date and authority to which the subpoena is, or was returnable, or the date of and court issuing the ex parte order, the name and number of the case or proceeding, and the nature of the information sought and provided. Notice of the issuance of a subpoena or an ex parte order is not required if the system of records has been exempted from the notice requirement of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8) and this section, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and § 1.23(c)(1), by a Notice of Exemption published in the Federal Register. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8).)
Notification of disclosure under compulsory legal process.
Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and § 1.23(c)(1), when records concerning an individual are subpoenaed by a Grand Jury, Court, or quasi-judicial agency, or disclosed in accordance with an ex parte court order pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103(i), the official served with the subpoena or court order shall make reasonable efforts to assure that notice of any disclosure is provided to the individual. Notice shall be provided within five working days of making the records available under compulsory legal process or, in the case of a Grand Jury subpoena or an ex parte order, within five days of its becoming a matter of public record. Notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the individual and shall contain the following information: the date and authority to which the subpoena is, or was returnable, or the date of and court issuing the ex parte order, the name and number of the case or proceeding, and the nature of the information sought and provided. Notice of the issuance of a subpoena or an ex parte order is not required if the system of records has been exempted from the notice requirement of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8) and this section, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and § 1.23(c)(1), by a Notice of Exemption published in the
Federal Register.
(
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8).)
(g) Emergency disclosure. If information concerning an individual has been disclosed to any person under compelling circumstances affecting health or safety, the individual shall be notified at the last known address within 5 days of the disclosure (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). Notification shall include the following information: The nature of the information disclosed, the person or agency to whom it was disclosed, the date of disclosure, and the compelling circumstances justifying the disclosure. Notification shall be given by the officer who made or authorized the disclosure. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a (b)(8).)
Emergency disclosure.
If information concerning an individual has been disclosed to any person under compelling circumstances affecting health or safety, the individual shall be notified at the last known address within 5 days of the disclosure (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). Notification shall include the following information: The nature of the information disclosed, the person or agency to whom it was disclosed, the date of disclosure, and the compelling circumstances justifying the disclosure. Notification shall be given by the officer who made or authorized the disclosure. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a (b)(8).)

§ 1.23   Publication in the Federal Register—Notices of systems of records, general exemptions, specific exemptions, review of all systems.

(a) Notices of systems of records to be published in the Federal Register. (1) The Office of the Federal Register publishes a biennial compilation of all system notices (“Privacy Act Issuances”), as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). In the interim (between biennial compilations), the Department must list and provide links on its website to complete, up-to-date versions of all Treasury system of records notices (SORNs), including citations and links to all Federal Register notices that reflect substantial modifications to each SORN.
Notices of systems of records to be published in the
Federal Register.
(1) The Office of the Federal Register publishes a biennial compilation of all system notices (“Privacy Act Issuances”), as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). In the interim (between biennial compilations), the Department must list and provide links on its website to complete, up-to-date versions of all Treasury system of records notices (SORNs), including citations and links to all
Federal Register
notices that reflect substantial modifications to each SORN.
(2) In addition, the Department must publish in the Federal Register upon establishment or significant revision a notice of the existence and character of any new or significantly revised systems of records. Unless otherwise instructed, each notice must include:
Federal Register
upon establishment or significant revision a notice of the existence and character of any new or significantly revised systems of records. Unless otherwise instructed, each notice must include:
(i) The system name and number, and location of the system;
(ii) The title and business address of the Treasury official who is responsible for the system of records;
(iii) Security classification, and indication of whether any information in the system is classified;
(iv) Authority for maintenance of the system, the specific authority that authorizes the maintenance of the records in the system;
(v) Purpose(s) of the system, a description of the purpose(s) for maintaining the system;
(vi) The categories of individuals on whom records are maintained in the system;
(vii) The categories of records maintained in the system;
(viii) The categories of sources of records in the system (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4));
see
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4));
(ix) Each routine uses of the records contained in the system, including the categories of users and the purpose of such use;
(x)-(xix) [Reserved]
(xx) The policies and practices of the component regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention, and disposal of the records;
(xxi) The procedures of the component whereby an individual can be notified if the system of records contains a record pertaining to the individual, including reasonable times, places, and identification requirements;
(xxii) The procedures of the component whereby an individual can be notified on how to gain access to any record pertaining to such individual that may be contained in the system of records, and how to contest its content;
(xxiii) Exemptions promulgated for the system; and
(xxiv) History (any previously published notices).
(b) Notice of new or modified routine uses to be published in the Federal Register. At least 30 days prior to a new use or modification of a routine use, as published under paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, Treasury must publish in the Federal Register notice of such new or modified use of the information in the system and allow for interested persons to submit written data, views, or arguments to the components. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(11).)
Notice of new or modified routine uses to be published in the
Federal Register.
At least 30 days prior to a new use or modification of a routine use, as published under paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, Treasury must publish in the
Federal Register
notice of such new or modified use of the information in the system and allow for interested persons to submit written data, views, or arguments to the components. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(11).)
(c) Promulgation of rules exempting systems from certain requirements—(1) General exemptions. In accordance with existing procedures applicable to a Treasury component's issuance of regulations, the head of each such component may adopt rules, in accordance with the requirements (including general notice) of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2), and (3), (c) and (e), to exempt any system of records within the component from any part of the Privacy Act and the regulations in this subpart except subsections (b) (§ 1.24, conditions of disclosure), (c)(1) (§ 1.25, keep accurate accounting of disclosures), (c)(2) (§ 1.25, retain accounting for five years or life of record), (e)(4)(A) through (F) (paragraph (a) of this section, publication of annual notice of systems of records), (e)(6) (§ 1.22(d), accuracy of records prior to dissemination), (e)(7) (§ 1.22(e), maintenance of records on First Amendment rights), (e)(9) (§ 1.28, establish rules of conduct), (e)(10) (§ 1.22(d)(3), establish safeguards for records), (e)(11) (paragraph (c) of this section, publish new intended use), and (i) (§ 1.28(c), criminal penalties) if the systems of records maintained by the component which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws, including police efforts to prevent, control, or reduce crime or to apprehend criminals, and the activities of prosecutors, courts, correctional, probation, pardon, or parole authorities, and which consists of:
Promulgation of rules exempting systems from certain requirements
—(1)
General exemptions.
In accordance with existing procedures applicable to a Treasury component's issuance of regulations, the head of each such component may adopt rules, in accordance with the requirements (including general notice) of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2), and (3), (c) and (e), to exempt any system of records within the component from any part of the Privacy Act and the regulations in this subpart except subsections (b) (§ 1.24, conditions of disclosure), (c)(1) (§ 1.25, keep accurate accounting of disclosures), (c)(2) (§ 1.25, retain accounting for five years or life of record), (e)(4)(A) through (F) (paragraph (a) of this section, publication of annual notice of systems of records), (e)(6) (§ 1.22(d), accuracy of records prior to dissemination), (e)(7) (§ 1.22(e), maintenance of records on First Amendment rights), (e)(9) (§ 1.28, establish rules of conduct), (e)(10) (§ 1.22(d)(3), establish safeguards for records), (e)(11) (paragraph (c) of this section, publish new intended use), and (i) (§ 1.28(c), criminal penalties) if the systems of records maintained by the component which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws, including police efforts to prevent, control, or reduce crime or to apprehend criminals, and the activities of prosecutors, courts, correctional, probation, pardon, or parole authorities, and which consists of:
(i) Information compiled for the purpose of identifying individual criminal offenders and alleged offenders and consisting only of identifying data and notations of arrests, the nature and disposition of criminal charges, sentencing, confinement, release, and parole, and probation status;
(ii) Information compiled for the purpose of a criminal investigation, including reports of informants and investigators, and associated with an identifiable individual; or
(iii) Reports identifiable to an individual compiled at any stage of the process of enforcement of the criminal laws from arrest or indictment through release from supervision. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(j).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(j).)
(2) Specific exemptions. In accordance with existing procedures applicable to a Treasury component's issuance of regulations, the head of each such component may adopt rules, in accordance with the requirements (including general notice) of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2), and (3), (c), and (e), to exempt any system of records within the component from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) (§ 1.25(c)(2), accounting of certain disclosures available to the individual), (d) (§ 1.26(a), access to records), (e)(1) (§ 1.22(a)(1), maintenance of information to accomplish purposes authorized by statute or executive order only), (e)(4)(G) (paragraph (a)(7) of this section, publication of procedures for notification), (e)(4)(H) (paragraph (a)(8) of this section, publication of procedures for access and contest), (e)(4)(I) (paragraph (a)(9) of this section, publication of sources of records), and (f) (§ 1.26, promulgate rules for notification, access and contest), if the system of records is:
Specific exemptions.
In accordance with existing procedures applicable to a Treasury component's issuance of regulations, the head of each such component may adopt rules, in accordance with the requirements (including general notice) of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2), and (3), (c), and (e), to exempt any system of records within the component from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) (§ 1.25(c)(2), accounting of certain disclosures available to the individual), (d) (§ 1.26(a), access to records), (e)(1) (§ 1.22(a)(1), maintenance of information to accomplish purposes authorized by statute or executive order only), (e)(4)(G) (paragraph (a)(7) of this section, publication of procedures for notification), (e)(4)(H) (paragraph (a)(8) of this section, publication of procedures for access and contest), (e)(4)(I) (paragraph (a)(9) of this section, publication of sources of records), and (f) (§ 1.26, promulgate rules for notification, access and contest), if the system of records is:
(i) Subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1);
(ii) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act and paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit that such individual would otherwise be entitled to by Federal law, or for which such individual would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of this material, provide such material to the individual, except to the extent that the disclosure of the material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence;
(iii) Maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056;
(iv) Required by statute to be maintained and used solely as statistical records;
(v) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence;
(vi) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process; or
(vii) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence.
(3) Reasons for exemptions. As of November 21, 2022, the head of the component must include in the statement required under 5 U.S.C. 553(c) the reasons why the system of records is to be exempted from a provision of the Privacy Act and this part. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k).)
Reasons for exemptions.
As of November 21, 2022, the head of the component must include in the statement required under 5 U.S.C. 553(c) the reasons why the system of records is to be exempted from a provision of the Privacy Act and this part. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k).)
(d) Review and report to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The Department must ensure that the following reviews are conducted:
Review and report to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
The Department must ensure that the following reviews are conducted:
(1) The Data Integrity Board must conduct a review of all matching programs in which the Department has participated during the calendar year and report to OMB of the following year.
(2) Each component must perform the following reviews with a frequency sufficient to ensure compliance and manage risks:
(i) Review the language of each contract that involves the creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, or disposal of information and ensure that the applicable requirements in the Privacy Act and OMB policies are enforceable on the contractor and its employees consistent with the agency's authority;
(ii) Ensure that all routine uses remain appropriate and that the recipient's use of the records continues to be compatible with the purpose for which the information was collected;
(iii) Ensure that each exemption claimed for a system of records pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) remains appropriate and necessary;
(iv) Ensure Departmental and component training practices are sufficient and that personnel understand the requirements of the Privacy Act, OMB guidance, the agency's implementing regulations and policies, and any job-specific requirements;
(v) Review all component SORNs as needed to ensure they remain accurate, up-to-date, and appropriately scoped; that all SORNs are published in the Federal Register; that all SORNs include the information required by OMB Circular A-108; and that all significant changes to SORNs have been reported to OMB and Congress; and
Federal Register
; that all SORNs include the information required by OMB Circular A-108; and that all significant changes to SORNs have been reported to OMB and Congress; and
(vi) Be prepared to report to the Office of Privacy, Transparency, & Records, as part of the annual Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), as amended by the Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014, Public Law 113-283, reporting process, the results of the reviews conducted as required by this section, including any corrective action taken to resolve problems uncovered.

§ 1.24   Disclosure of records to person other than the individual to whom they pertain.

(a) Conditions of disclosure. No component of Treasury is required to disclose any record which is contained in a system of records maintained by it by any means of communication to any person, or to another agency, except pursuant to a written request by, or with the prior written consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains, or the parent, if a minor, or legal guardian, if incompetent, of such individual, unless disclosure of the record would be:
Conditions of disclosure.
No component of Treasury is required to disclose any record which is contained in a system of records maintained by it by any means of communication to any person, or to another agency, except pursuant to a written request by, or with the prior written consent of, the individual to whom the record pertains, or the parent, if a minor, or legal guardian, if incompetent, of such individual, unless disclosure of the record would be:
(1) To those offices and employees of the Treasury who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties;
(2) Required under 5 U.S.C. 552 (subpart A of this part);
(3) For a routine use as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(7) and § 1.21(g) and as described under 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(D) and § 1.23(a)(4);
(4) To the Bureau of the Census for the purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to the provisions of title 13 of the U.S. Code;
(5) To a recipient who has provided the component with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable;
(6) To the National Archives and Records Administration as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of the General Services Administration or the designee of such official to determine whether the record has such value;
(7) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity, if:
(i) The activity is authorized by law; and
(ii) The head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the Treasury specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activities for which the record is sought;
(8) To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual, if upon such disclosure, notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual;
(9) To either House of Congress, or, to the extent a matter is within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee;
(10) To the Comptroller General, or the authorized representatives of such official, in the course of the performance of the duties of the Government Accountability Office;
(11) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)); or
(12) To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with 13 U.S.C. 3711(e).
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1.25   Accounting of disclosures.

(a) Accounting of certain disclosures. Each component, with respect to each system of records under its control, must:
Accounting of certain disclosures.
Each component, with respect to each system of records under its control, must:
(1) Keep an accurate accounting of:
(i) The date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record to any person or to an agency made under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) and § 1.24; and
(ii) The name and address of the person to whom or agency to which the disclosure is made;
(2) Retain the accounting made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for at least five years or the life of the record, whichever is longer, after the disclosure for which the accounting is made; and
(3) Inform any person or other agency about any correction or notation of dispute made by the component in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and § 1.28 of any record that has been disclosed to the person or agency if an accounting of the disclosure was made. (See 5 U.S.C. 552(c).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552(c).)
(b) Accounting systems. To permit the accounting required by paragraph (a) of this section, system managers, with the approval of the head of their offices within a component, must establish or implement a system of accounting for all disclosures of records, either orally or in writing, made outside the Department of the Treasury. Accounting records must:
Accounting systems.
To permit the accounting required by paragraph (a) of this section, system managers, with the approval of the head of their offices within a component, must establish or implement a system of accounting for all disclosures of records, either orally or in writing, made outside the Department of the Treasury. Accounting records must:
(1) Be established in the least expensive and most convenient form that will permit the system manager to advise individuals, promptly upon request, what records concerning them have been disclosed and to whom;
(2) Provide, as a minimum, the identification of the particular record disclosed, the name and address of the person to whom or agency to which the record was disclosed, and the date, nature, and purpose of the disclosure; and
(3) Be maintained for 5 years or until the record is destroyed or transferred to the National Archives and Records Administration or Federal Records Center for storage, in which event, the accounting pertaining to those records, unless maintained separately, must be transferred with the records themselves.
(c) Exemptions from accounting requirements. No accounting is required for disclosure of records:
Exemptions from accounting requirements.
No accounting is required for disclosure of records:
(1) To those officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties; or
(2) If disclosure would be required under 5 U.S.C. 552 and subpart A of this part.
(d) Access to accounting by individual. (1) Subject to paragraphs (c) and (d)(2) of this section, each component must establish {i} procedures for making the accounting required under paragraph (a) of this section available to the individual to whom the record pertains and {ii} thereafter make such accounting available in accordance therewith at the request of the individual. The procedures may require the requester to provide reasonable identification. (See appendices A through H to this subpart.)
Access to accounting by individual.
(1) Subject to paragraphs (c) and (d)(2) of this section, each component must establish {i} procedures for making the accounting required under paragraph (a) of this section available to the individual to whom the record pertains and {ii} thereafter make such accounting available in accordance therewith at the request of the individual. The procedures may require the requester to provide reasonable identification. (
See
appendices A through H to this subpart.)
(2) Access to accounting of disclosures may be withheld from the individual named in the record only if the disclosures were:
(i) Made under 5 U.S.C. 552a (b)(7) and § 1.24(a)(7); or
(ii) Under a system of records exempted from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(j) or (k) and § 1.23(c). (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(c).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(c).)

§ 1.26   Procedures for notification and access to records pertaining to individuals—Format and fees for request for access.

(a) Procedures for notification and access. Each component must, in accordance with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), set forth in the appendix to this subpart applicable to such component procedures whereby an individual can be notified, in response to a request, if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to that individual. In addition, such procedures must set forth the requirements for access to such records. At a minimum, such procedures must specify the times during, and the places at which access will be afforded, together with such identification as may be required of the individual before access. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(1), (2) and (3).)
Procedures for notification and access.
Each component must, in accordance with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), set forth in the appendix to this subpart applicable to such component procedures whereby an individual can be notified, in response to a request, if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to that individual. In addition, such procedures must set forth the requirements for access to such records. At a minimum, such procedures must specify the times during, and the places at which access will be afforded, together with such identification as may be required of the individual before access. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(1), (2) and (3).)
(b) Access. Each component, in accordance with the procedures prescribed under paragraph (a) of this section, must allow an individual, upon request, to gain access to records or to any information pertaining to such individual which is contained in a system of records. Permit the individual to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion of the record in a comprehensible form. Also permit the individual to be accompanied by any person of the individual's choosing to review the record, except that the agency may require the individual to furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of that individual's record in the accompanying person's presence. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).)
Access.
Each component, in accordance with the procedures prescribed under paragraph (a) of this section, must allow an individual, upon request, to gain access to records or to any information pertaining to such individual which is contained in a system of records. Permit the individual to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion of the record in a comprehensible form. Also permit the individual to be accompanied by any person of the individual's choosing to review the record, except that the agency may require the individual to furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of that individual's record in the accompanying person's presence. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1).)
(c) Exceptions. Neither the procedures prescribed under paragraph (a) of this section nor the requirements for access under paragraph (b) of this section apply to:
Exceptions.
Neither the procedures prescribed under paragraph (a) of this section nor the requirements for access under paragraph (b) of this section apply to:
(1) Systems of records exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) and § 1.23(c);
(2) Information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding (see 5 U.S.C. 552(d)(5)); or
(3) Information pertaining to an individual which is contained in, and inseparable from, another individual's record.
(d) Format of request. (1) A request for notification of whether a record exists must:
Format of request.
(1) A request for notification of whether a record exists must:
(i) Be made in writing and signed by the person making the request, who must be the individual about whom the record is maintained or such individual's duly authorized representative (see § 1.34);
see
§ 1.34);
(ii) State that it is made pursuant to the Privacy Act or the regulations in this subpart, or have “Privacy Act Request” written on both the request and on the envelope, if not submitted via a component-provided electronic method;
(iii) Give the name of the system or subsystem or categories of records to which access is sought, as specified in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register and referenced in the appendices to this subpart;
(iv) Describe the nature of the record sought, the date of the record or the period in which the record was compiled or otherwise describe the record in sufficient detail to enable Department personnel to locate the system of records containing the record with a reasonable amount of effort;
(v) Provide such identification of the requester as may be specified in the appropriate appendix to this subpart; and
(vi) Be addressed or delivered in person or by a component-provided electronic method to the office or officer of the component indicated for the particular system or subsystem or categories of records to which the individual seeks access, as specified in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register and referenced in the appendices to this subpart. As explained in appendix A to this subpart, requesters may send a written request to the Departmental Offices seeking assistance in identifying the appropriate component or in preparing a request for notification. Requesters seeking such assistance should submit a written request addressed to the Departmental Offices at the address specified in appendix A to this part.
(2) A request for access to records must, in addition to complying with paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section:
(i) State whether the requester wishes to inspect the records or desires to have a copy made and furnished without first inspecting them;
(ii) If a requester wants a copy of their records, they must clearly state in the request that they agree to pay the fees for duplication as ultimately determined in accordance with subpart A to this subpart (§ 1.7), unless such fees are waived under that section by the system manager or other appropriate official as indicated in the appropriate appendix to this subpart; and
(iii) Comply with any other requirement set forth in the applicable appendix to this subpart or the “System of Records Notice” applicable to the system in question. Any request for access which does not comply with the requirements in the preceding sentence and those set forth elsewhere in this subpart, will not be deemed subject to the time constraints of this section, unless and until amended to comply with all requirements in this subpart. Components must advise the requester of any specific deficiencies so the requester can amend the request so it can be processed. This section applies only to records maintained in a system of records that are also in the possession or control of the component. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(e) Requests for records not in control of component. (1) Treasury employees must make reasonable efforts to assist an oral requester to learn to which office or officer a written request should be sent. When the request is for a record which is not in the possession or control of any Treasury component, the requester must be advised of this fact.
Requests for records not in control of component.
(1) Treasury employees must make reasonable efforts to assist an oral requester to learn to which office or officer a written request should be sent. When the request is for a record which is not in the possession or control of any Treasury component, the requester must be advised of this fact.
(2) Where the record requested originated with a Federal agency other than Treasury or its components and was classified (e.g., National Defense or Intelligence Information) or otherwise restrictively endorsed (e.g., Office of Personnel Management records of Federal Bureau of Investigation reports) by the originating agency, and a copy is in the possession of a Treasury component, the component will refer that portion of the request to the originating agency for determination of all Privacy Act issues. In the case of a referral to another agency under this paragraph (e)(2), the component will notify the requester that such portion of the request has been so referred and that the requester may expect to hear from that agency.
(3) When information sought from a system manager or other appropriate Treasury official includes information originating with other Federal agencies that is not classified or otherwise restrictively endorsed, the system manager or other appropriate Treasury official receiving the request must consult with the originating agency prior to making a decision to disclose or withhold the record. The system manager or other appropriate Treasury official maintaining the record must decide if disclosure is required. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(f) Date of receipt of request. For purposes of this subpart, the date of receipt of a request for notification or access to records shall be the date on which the requester satisfied all the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. Requests for notification or access to records and any separate agreement to pay for copies must be stamped or endorsed with the date the receiving office/component received all information needed to satisfy the requirements in this section. The date of receipt of the last required document will be the date of receipt of the request for the purposes of this subpart. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
Date of receipt of request.
For purposes of this subpart, the date of receipt of a request for notification or access to records shall be the date on which the requester satisfied all the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. Requests for notification or access to records and any separate agreement to pay for copies must be stamped or endorsed with the date the receiving office/component received all information needed to satisfy the requirements in this section. The date of receipt of the last required document will be the date of receipt of the request for the purposes of this subpart. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(g) Notification of determination—(1) In general. The component officers designated in the appendices to this subpart must send the requester any required notifications, including notices stating the component has responsive records and whether it will provide access to the records requested. The component will mail notification of the determination within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of the request, as determined in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. If it is not possible to respond within 30 days, the relevant component officer must inform the requester (prior to the expiration of the 30-day timeframe), stating the reason for the delay (e.g., volume of records requested, scattered location of the records, need to consult other agencies, or the difficulty of the legal issues involved) and when a response will be dispatched. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
Notification of determination
—(1)
In general.
The component officers designated in the appendices to this subpart must send the requester any required notifications, including notices stating the component has responsive records and whether it will provide access to the records requested. The component will mail notification of the determination within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of the request, as determined in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. If it is not possible to respond within 30 days, the relevant component officer must inform the requester (prior to the expiration of the 30-day timeframe), stating the reason for the delay (e.g., volume of records requested, scattered location of the records, need to consult other agencies, or the difficulty of the legal issues involved) and when a response will be dispatched. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(2) Granting of access. When the component determines that the request for access will be granted and the requester seeks a copy of the responsive records, the component must furnish such copy in a form comprehensible to the requester, together with a statement of the applicable duplication fees. If the requester indicates they want to exercise their right to inspect the responsive records, the component officer designated in the relevant appendix to this subpart must promptly notify the requester in writing of the determination, including when and where the requested records may be inspected. A requester seeking to inspect such records may be accompanied by another person of their choosing. The requester seeking access must sign a form indicating that Treasury is authorized to discuss the contents of the subject record in the accompanying person's presence. If, after making the inspection, the requester requests a copy of all or a portion of the requested records and pays the applicable fees for duplication, the component must provide a copy of the records in a form comprehensible to the requester. Fees to be charged are as prescribed by subpart A to this subpart (§ 1.7). Components may charge for processing requests under the Freedom of Information Act, under the provisions of this section, or may issue their own fee schedules, which must be consistent with the OMB Guidelines. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
Granting of access.
When the component determines that the request for access will be granted and the requester seeks a copy of the responsive records, the component must furnish such copy in a form comprehensible to the requester, together with a statement of the applicable duplication fees. If the requester indicates they want to exercise their right to inspect the responsive records, the component officer designated in the relevant appendix to this subpart must promptly notify the requester in writing of the determination, including when and where the requested records may be inspected. A requester seeking to inspect such records may be accompanied by another person of their choosing. The requester seeking access must sign a form indicating that Treasury is authorized to discuss the contents of the subject record in the accompanying person's presence. If, after making the inspection, the requester requests a copy of all or a portion of the requested records and pays the applicable fees for duplication, the component must provide a copy of the records in a form comprehensible to the requester. Fees to be charged are as prescribed by subpart A to this subpart (§ 1.7). Components may charge for processing requests under the Freedom of Information Act, under the provisions of this section, or may issue their own fee schedules, which must be consistent with the OMB Guidelines. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(3) Requirements for access to medical records. When access is requested to medical records, including psychological records, the responsible official may determine that such release could have an adverse effect on the individual and that release will be made only to a health professional authorized in writing to have access to such records by the individual making the request. Upon receipt of the authorization, the health professional will be permitted to review the records or to receive copies of the records by mail, upon proper verification of identity. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) (3).)
Requirements for access to medical records.
When access is requested to medical records, including psychological records, the responsible official may determine that such release could have an adverse effect on the individual and that release will be made only to a health professional authorized in writing to have access to such records by the individual making the request. Upon receipt of the authorization, the health professional will be permitted to review the records or to receive copies of the records by mail, upon proper verification of identity. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(f) (3).)
(4) Denial of request. When a component makes a determination to deny a request for notification of whether a record exists or deny access to existing responsive records (whether in whole or part or subject to conditions or exceptions), the component must notify the requester of the denial by mail in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section. The letter of notification must specify the city or other location where the requested records are situated (if known), contain a statement of the reasons for not granting the request as made, set forth the name and title or position of the responsible official and advise the requester of the right to file suit in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a (g)(1)(B).
Denial of request.
When a component makes a determination to deny a request for notification of whether a record exists or deny access to existing responsive records (whether in whole or part or subject to conditions or exceptions), the component must notify the requester of the denial by mail in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section. The letter of notification must specify the city or other location where the requested records are situated (if known), contain a statement of the reasons for not granting the request as made, set forth the name and title or position of the responsible official and advise the requester of the right to file suit in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a (g)(1)(B).
(5) Prohibition against the use of 5 U.S.C. 552(b) exemptions. A component may not invoke exemptions from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (subpart A to this part (§ 1.2 (c))), for the purpose of withholding from a requester any record which would otherwise be accessible to the requester under the Privacy Act and this subpart. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(t).)
Prohibition against the use of 5 U.S.C. 552(b) exemptions.
A component may not invoke exemptions from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (subpart A to this part (§ 1.2 (c))), for the purpose of withholding from a requester any record which would otherwise be accessible to the requester under the Privacy Act and this subpart. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(t).)
(6) Records exempt in whole or in part. (i) If Treasury deems it necessary to assert an exemption in response to a request for notification of the existence of or access to records, it will neither confirm nor deny the existence of the records if the records were exempted from individual access pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or were compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding in either a court or before an administrative tribunal. If Treasury asserts such an exemption, it must advise the requester only that it has identified no records available pursuant to the Privacy Act.
Records exempt in whole or in part.
(i) If Treasury deems it necessary to assert an exemption in response to a request for notification of the existence of or access to records, it will neither confirm nor deny the existence of the records if the records were exempted from individual access pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or were compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding in either a court or before an administrative tribunal. If Treasury asserts such an exemption, it must advise the requester only that it has identified no records available pursuant to the Privacy Act.
(ii) Process requests from individuals for access to records which Treasury exempted from access pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k) as follows:
(A) Requests for information classified pursuant to Executive Order 12958, 13526, or successor or prior Executive orders require the responsible Treasury component to review the information to determine whether it continues to warrant classification pursuant to an Executive order. Information which no longer warrants classification under these criteria must be declassified and made available to the individual. If the information continues to warrant classification, the component must notify the requester that the information sought is classified, that it has been reviewed and continues to warrant classification, and that Treasury exempted it from access pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). Classified information maintained in records Treasury exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) must be reviewed as required by this paragraph (g)(6)(ii)(A), but the response to the individual must be in the form prescribed by paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section.
(B) Components must respond to requests for information maintained in records that Treasury exempted from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) in the manner provided in paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section unless the requester shows that the component has used or is using the information to deny them any right, privilege, or benefit for which they are eligible or to which they would otherwise be entitled under Federal law. If the requester makes such a showing, the component must advise the requester of the existence of the records, extract any information from the records that would identify a confidential source, or provide a summary extract of the records to the requester in a manner which protects the source to the maximum degree possible.
(C) Information a component compiled in its records as part of an employee background investigation that Treasury exempted from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) must be made available to a requester unless the record identifies a confidential source(s). Information in the record that identifies confidential source(s) must be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source(s) to the maximum degree possible and the summary or extract must be provided to the requester.
(D) Testing or examination material that Treasury exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) must not be made available to a requester if disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process but may be made available if no such compromise possibility exists. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5), (j), and (k).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5), (j), and (k).)

§ 1.27   Procedures for amendment of records pertaining to individuals—Format, agency review, and appeal from initial adverse agency determination.

(a) In general. Subject to the application of exemptions Treasury promulgated in accordance with § 1.23(c), and subject to paragraph (f) of this section, each component of the Department of the Treasury must, in conformance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2), permit an individual to request amendment of a record pertaining to such individual. Any request for amendment of records or any appeal that does not fully comply with the requirements of this section and any additional specific requirements imposed by the component in the applicable appendix to this subpart will not be deemed subject to the time constraints of paragraph (e) of this section, unless and until the request is amended to meet all requirements. However, components will advise the requester in what respect the request or appeal is non-compliant so that it may be resubmitted or amended. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
In general.
Subject to the application of exemptions Treasury promulgated in accordance with § 1.23(c), and subject to paragraph (f) of this section, each component of the Department of the Treasury must, in conformance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2), permit an individual to request amendment of a record pertaining to such individual. Any request for amendment of records or any appeal that does not fully comply with the requirements of this section and any additional specific requirements imposed by the component in the applicable appendix to this subpart will not be deemed subject to the time constraints of paragraph (e) of this section, unless and until the request is amended to meet all requirements. However, components will advise the requester in what respect the request or appeal is non-compliant so that it may be resubmitted or amended. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(b) Form of request to amend records. In order to be subject to the provisions of this section, a request to amend records must:
Form of request to amend records.
In order to be subject to the provisions of this section, a request to amend records must:
(1) Be made in writing and signed by the individual making the request, who must be the individual about whom the record is maintained, or the duly authorized representative of such individual;
(2) State that it is made under the Privacy Act or the regulations in this subpart, with “Privacy Act Amendment Request” written on both the request and on the envelope;
(3) Be addressed to the office or officer of the component specified for such purposes in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register and referenced in the appendices to this subpart for that purpose; and
(4) Reasonably describe the records which the individual believes require amendment, including, to the best of the requester's knowledge, dates of previous letters the requester sent to the component seeking access to their records and dates of letters in which the component provided notification to the requester concerning access, if any, and the individual's documentation justifying the proposed correction. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(c) Date of receipt of request. For purposes of this subpart, the date of receipt of a request for amendment of records must be the date on which the requester satisfies all the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The receiving office or officer must stamp or otherwise endorse the date of receipt of the request. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
Date of receipt of request.
For purposes of this subpart, the date of receipt of a request for amendment of records must be the date on which the requester satisfies all the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The receiving office or officer must stamp or otherwise endorse the date of receipt of the request. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(d) Review of requests to amend records. Officials responsible for review of requests to amend records pertaining to an individual, as specified in the appropriate appendix to this subpart, must:
Review of requests to amend records.
Officials responsible for review of requests to amend records pertaining to an individual, as specified in the appropriate appendix to this subpart, must:
(1) Not later than 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of such request, acknowledge in writing such receipt; and
(2) Promptly, either—
(i) Make any correction to any portion which the individual believes, and the official agrees is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete; or
(ii) Inform the individual of the refusal to amend the record in accordance with the individual's request, the reason for the refusal, and the name and business address of the officer designated in the applicable appendix to this subpart, as the person who is to review such refusal. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).).
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).).
(e) Administrative appeal—(1) In general. Each component must permit individuals to request a review of initial decisions made under paragraph (d) of this section when an individual disagrees with a refusal to amend the record. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), (f), and (g)(1).)
Administrative appeal
—(1)
In general.
Each component must permit individuals to request a review of initial decisions made under paragraph (d) of this section when an individual disagrees with a refusal to amend the record. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d), (f), and (g)(1).)
(2) Form of request for administrative review of refusal to amend record. At any time within 35 days after the date of the notification of the initial decision described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the requester may submit an administrative appeal from such refusal to the official specified in the notification of the initial decision and the appropriate appendix to this subpart. The appeal must:
Form of request for administrative review of refusal to amend record.
At any time within 35 days after the date of the notification of the initial decision described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the requester may submit an administrative appeal from such refusal to the official specified in the notification of the initial decision and the appropriate appendix to this subpart. The appeal must:
(i) Be made in writing, stating any arguments in support thereof and be signed by the requester to whom the record pertains, or the duly authorized representative of such individual;
(ii) Be addressed and mailed or hand delivered within 35 days of the date of the initial decision to the office or officer specified in the appropriate appendix to this subpart and in the notification. (See the appendices to this subpart for the address to which appeals made by mail should be addressed.);
See
the appendices to this subpart for the address to which appeals made by mail should be addressed.);
(iii) Be clearly marked “Privacy Act Amendment Appeal” on the appeal and on the envelope;
(iv) Reasonably describe the records the individual seeks to amend; and
(v) Specify the date of the initial request to amend records, and the date of the component's letter providing notification that the request was denied. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(3) Date of receipt. Promptly stamp or endorse appeals with the date of their receipt by the office to which the appeal is addressed. Such stamped or endorsed date will be deemed to be the date of receipt for all purposes of this subpart. The responsible official in the office to which the appeal was addressed must acknowledge receipt of the appeal within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the date of the receipt (unless the determination on appeal is dispatched in 10 days, in which case, no acknowledgement is required). The letter acknowledging receipt of the appeal must advise the requester of the date of receipt established by the foregoing and the number of days the responsible official has to decide the administrative appeal (including days included/not included in determining the deadline). (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
Date of receipt.
Promptly stamp or endorse appeals with the date of their receipt by the office to which the appeal is addressed. Such stamped or endorsed date will be deemed to be the date of receipt for all purposes of this subpart. The responsible official in the office to which the appeal was addressed must acknowledge receipt of the appeal within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the date of the receipt (unless the determination on appeal is dispatched in 10 days, in which case, no acknowledgement is required). The letter acknowledging receipt of the appeal must advise the requester of the date of receipt established by the foregoing and the number of days the responsible official has to decide the administrative appeal (including days included/not included in determining the deadline). (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).)
(4) Review of administrative appeals from denial of requests to amend records. Officials responsible for deciding administrative appeals from denials of requests to amend records pertaining to an individual, as specified in the appendices to this subpart must: Complete the review and notify the requester of the final agency decision within 30 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of such appeal, unless the time is extended by the head of the agency or the delegate of such official, for good cause shown. If the final agency decision is to refuse to amend the record, in whole or in part, the requester must also be advised of the reasons the appeal was denied and their right—
Review of administrative appeals from denial of requests to amend records.
Officials responsible for deciding administrative appeals from denials of requests to amend records pertaining to an individual, as specified in the appendices to this subpart must: Complete the review and notify the requester of the final agency decision within 30 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of such appeal, unless the time is extended by the head of the agency or the delegate of such official, for good cause shown. If the final agency decision is to refuse to amend the record, in whole or in part, the requester must also be advised of the reasons the appeal was denied and their right—
(i) To file a concise “Statement of Disagreement” (including the procedures for filing this statement) setting forth the reasons they disagree with the final agency decision; and/or
(ii) To judicial review of the final agency decision refusing to amend the record(s) (under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A)). (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), (f), and (g)(1).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d), (f), and (g)(1).)
(5) Notation on record and distribution of statements of disagreement. The system manager is responsible, in any disclosure containing information about which an individual has filed a “Statement of Disagreement”, occurring after the filing of the statement under paragraph (e)(4) of this section, for clearly noting any portion of the record which is disputed and providing copies of the statement and, if deemed appropriate, a concise statement of the component's reasons for not making the amendments requested to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record has been disclosed. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(4).)
Notation on record and distribution of statements of disagreement.
The system manager is responsible, in any disclosure containing information about which an individual has filed a “Statement of Disagreement”, occurring after the filing of the statement under paragraph (e)(4) of this section, for clearly noting any portion of the record which is disputed and providing copies of the statement and, if deemed appropriate, a concise statement of the component's reasons for not making the amendments requested to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record has been disclosed. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(4).)
(f) Records not subject to correction under the Privacy Act. The following records are not subject to correction or amendment by individuals:
Records not subject to correction under the Privacy Act.
The following records are not subject to correction or amendment by individuals:
(1) Transcripts or written statements made under oath;
(2) Transcripts of Grand Jury proceedings, judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings which form the official record of those proceedings;
(3) Pre-sentence reports comprising the property of the courts but maintained in agency files;
(4) Records pertaining to the determination, the collection, and the payment of the Federal taxes;
(5) Records duly exempted from correction by notice published in the Federal Register; and
Federal Register
; and
(6) Records compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.

§ 1.28   Training, rules of conduct, penalties for non-compliance.

(a) Training. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Privacy, Transparency, & Records must institute a Departmental training program to instruct Treasury employees and employees of Government contractors covered by 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), who are involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any system of records, on a continuing basis with respect to the duties and responsibilities imposed on them and the rights conferred on individuals by the Privacy Act, the regulations in this subpart, including the appendices thereto, and any other related regulations. Such training must provide suitable emphasis on the civil and criminal penalties imposed on the Department and the individual employees by the Privacy Act for non-compliance with specified requirements of the Act as implemented by the regulations in this subpart. Components may supplement or supplant the departmental annual privacy awareness training to address Privacy Act issues unique to their missions. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(9).)
Training.
The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Privacy, Transparency, & Records must institute a Departmental training program to instruct Treasury employees and employees of Government contractors covered by 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), who are involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any system of records, on a continuing basis with respect to the duties and responsibilities imposed on them and the rights conferred on individuals by the Privacy Act, the regulations in this subpart, including the appendices thereto, and any other related regulations. Such training must provide suitable emphasis on the civil and criminal penalties imposed on the Department and the individual employees by the Privacy Act for non-compliance with specified requirements of the Act as implemented by the regulations in this subpart. Components may supplement or supplant the departmental annual privacy awareness training to address Privacy Act issues unique to their missions. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(9).)
(b) Rules of conduct. In addition to the Standards of Conduct published in part O of this title, particularly 31 CFR 0.735-44, the following applies to Treasury employees (including, to the extent required by the contract or 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), Government contractors and employees of such contractors), who are involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any system of records, or in maintaining any records, for or on behalf of the Department, including any component thereof.
Rules of conduct.
In addition to the Standards of Conduct published in part O of this title, particularly 31 CFR 0.735-44, the following applies to Treasury employees (including, to the extent required by the contract or 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), Government contractors and employees of such contractors), who are involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any system of records, or in maintaining any records, for or on behalf of the Department, including any component thereof.
(1) The head of each office of a component of the Department is responsible for assuring that employees subject to such official's supervision are advised of the provisions of the Privacy Act, including the criminal penalties and civil liabilities provided therein, and the regulations in this subpart, and that such employees are made aware of their individual and collective responsibilities to protect the security of personal information, to assure its accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness, to avoid unauthorized disclosure either orally or in writing, and to insure that no system of records is maintained without public notice.
(2) Treasury must:
(i) Collect no information about individuals for maintenance in a system of records unless authorized to collect it to achieve a function or carry out a responsibility of the Department;
(ii) Collect from individuals only that information which is relevant and necessary to perform Department functions or responsibilities, unless related to a system exempted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k);
(iii) Collect information, to the greatest extent practicable, directly from the individual to whom it relates, unless related to a system exempted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j);
(iv) Inform individuals (and third parties, if feasible) from whom information is collected of the authority and purposes for collection, the use that will be made of the information, and the effects, both legal and practical, of not furnishing the information;
(v) Neither collect, maintain, use nor disseminate information concerning an individual's mere exercise of their First Amendment rights, including: an individual's religious or political beliefs or activities; membership in associations or organizations; freedom of speech and of the press, and freedom of assembly and petition, unless:
(A) The individual expressly authorizes it (for example, volunteering relevant and necessary information to obtain a benefit or enforce a right);
(B) A statute expressly/explicitly authorizes the collection, maintenance, use or dissemination of the information (whether or not the statute specifically refers to the First Amendment); or
(C) The activities involved are pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized investigation, adjudication or correctional activity;
(vi) Advise their supervisors of the existence or contemplated development of any record system which is capable of retrieving information about individuals by individual identifier (to determine if actual retrieval is or will necessarily occur with some degree of regularity when the system of records becomes operational);
(vii) Disseminate outside the Department no information from a system of records without the written consent of the individual who is the subject of the records unless disclosure is authorized by one of the 12 exemptions in 5 U.S.C. 552a(b), which includes disclosure pursuant to a routine use published in a system of records notice in the Federal Register;
Federal Register
;
(viii) Assure that an accounting is kept in the prescribed form of information about individuals that is maintained in a system of records and disseminated outside the Department, whether made orally or in writing, unless disclosed under 5 U.S.C. 552 and subpart A of this part;
(ix) Collect, maintain, use, and disseminate information about individuals in a manner that ensures that no inadvertent disclosure of the information is made either within or outside the Department; and
(x) Assure that the proper Department authorities (e.g., component privacy officer, legal counsel) are aware of any information in a system maintained by the Department which is not/might not be authorized under the provisions of the Privacy Act, including information on how an individual exercises their First Amendment rights, information that is/may be inaccurate, irrelevant, or so incomplete as to risk unfairness to the individual concerned if used to make adverse determinations.
(c) Criminal penalties. (1) The Privacy Act imposes criminal penalties on the conduct of Government officers or employees as follows: Any officer or employee of an agency (which term includes Treasury):
Criminal penalties.
(1) The Privacy Act imposes criminal penalties on the conduct of Government officers or employees as follows: Any officer or employee of an agency (which term includes Treasury):
(i) Who by virtue of their employment or official position, has possession of, or access to, agency records which contain individually identifiable information the disclosure of which is prohibited by this section (see 5 U.S.C. 552a) or regulations in this subpart established under the Privacy Act, and who knowing that disclosure of the specific material is so prohibited, willfully discloses the material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it; or
see
5 U.S.C. 552a) or regulations in this subpart established under the Privacy Act, and who knowing that disclosure of the specific material is so prohibited, willfully discloses the material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it; or
(ii) Who willfully maintains a system of records without meeting the notice requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section (see 5 U.S.C. 552a)—shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
see
5 U.S.C. 552a)—shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
(2) The Privacy Act also imposes a collateral criminal penalty (misdemeanor and a fine of not more than $5,000) on the conduct of any person who knowingly and willfully requests or obtains records covered by the Privacy Act from an agency under false pretenses.
(3) For the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 552a(i), the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section are applicable to Government contractors and employees of such contractors who by contract, operate by or on behalf of the Treasury a system of records to accomplish a Departmental function. Such contractor and employees are considered employees of the Treasury for the purposes of 5 U.S.C. 552a(i). (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(i) and (m).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(i) and (m).)

§ 1.29   Records transferred to Federal Records Center or National Archives of the United States.

(a) Records transferred for storage in the Federal Records Center. Records pertaining to an identifiable individual which are transferred to the Federal Records Center in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3103 must, for the purposes of the Privacy Act, be considered to be maintained by the component which deposited the record and must be subject to the provisions of the Privacy Act and this subpart. The Federal Records Center must not disclose such records except to Treasury or to others under rules consistent with the Privacy Act. These rules may be established by Treasury or a component. If such records are retrieved for the purpose of making a determination about an individual, Treasury or the relevant component must review them for accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness.
Records transferred for storage in the Federal Records Center.
Records pertaining to an identifiable individual which are transferred to the Federal Records Center in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3103 must, for the purposes of the Privacy Act, be considered to be maintained by the component which deposited the record and must be subject to the provisions of the Privacy Act and this subpart. The Federal Records Center must not disclose such records except to Treasury or to others under rules consistent with the Privacy Act. These rules may be established by Treasury or a component. If such records are retrieved for the purpose of making a determination about an individual, Treasury or the relevant component must review them for accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness.
(b) Records transferred to the National Archives of the United States—(1) Records transferred to National Archives prior to September 27, 1975. Records pertaining to an identifiable individual transferred to the National Archives prior to September 27, 1975, as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, are deemed records maintained by the National Archives, and:
Records transferred to the National Archives of the United States
—(1)
Records transferred to National Archives prior to September 27, 1975.
Records pertaining to an identifiable individual transferred to the National Archives prior to September 27, 1975, as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, are deemed records maintained by the National Archives, and:
(i) Must not be subject to the Privacy Act.
(ii) Except, that a statement describing such records (modeled after 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(A) through (G)) must be published in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.
(2) Records transferred to National Archives on or after September 27, 1975. Records pertaining to an identifiable individual transferred to the National Archives as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, on or after September 27, 1975, must be deemed records maintained by the National Archives, and:
Records transferred to National Archives on or after September 27, 1975.
Records pertaining to an identifiable individual transferred to the National Archives as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, on or after September 27, 1975, must be deemed records maintained by the National Archives, and:
(i) Must not be subject to the Privacy Act.
(ii) Except, that a statement describing such records in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(A) through (G) must be published in the Federal Register and rules of conduct and training in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(e)(9) are to be established by the National Archives. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(e).)
Federal Register
and rules of conduct and training in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(e)(9) are to be established by the National Archives. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(e).)

§ 1.30   Application to system of records maintained by Government contractors.

When a component contracts for the operation of a system of records, to accomplish a Treasury function, the provisions of the Privacy Act and this subpart must be applied to such system. The relevant component is responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with the contract requirements relating to privacy.

§ 1.31   Sale or rental of mailing lists.

(a) In general. An individual's name and address must not be sold or rented by a component unless such action is specifically authorized by law.
In general.
An individual's name and address must not be sold or rented by a component unless such action is specifically authorized by law.
(b) Withholding of names and addresses. This section must not be construed to require the withholding of names and addresses otherwise permitted to be made public. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(n).)
Withholding of names and addresses.
This section must not be construed to require the withholding of names and addresses otherwise permitted to be made public. (
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(n).)

§ 1.32   Collection, use, disclosure, and protection of Social Security numbers.

(a) Treasury must only collect full Social Security numbers (SSNs) when relevant and necessary to accomplish a legally authorized purpose related to a Treasury mission. In the absence of another compelling justification for the use of the full SSN (approved by the relevant component Head and the Departmental Senior Agency Official for Privacy), Treasury must only collect and maintain full SSNs:
(1) As a unique identifier for identity verification purposes related to cyber security, law enforcement, intelligence, and/or security background investigations;
(2) When required by external entities to perform a function for or on behalf of Treasury;
(3) When collection is expressly required by statute or regulation;
(4) For statistical and other research purposes;
(5) To ensure the delivery of government benefits, privileges, and services; and
(6) When there are no reasonable, alternative means for meeting business requirements.
(b) Treasury must not display the Social Security number on the outside of any package sent by mail.
(c) Treasury must not display the Social Security number on any document sent by mail unless there are no reasonable, alternative means for meeting business requirements and masking or truncating/partially redacting the SSN are not feasible.
(d) Whenever feasible, Treasury must mask, or truncate/partially redact Social Security numbers visible to authorized Treasury/component information technology users so they only see the portion (if any) of the Social Security number required to perform their official Treasury duties.
(e) An individual must not be denied any right, benefit, or privilege provided by law by a component because of such individual's refusal to disclose their Social Security number.
(f) The provisions of paragraph (e) of this section do not apply with respect to:
(1) Any disclosure which is required by Federal statute; or
(2) The disclosure of a Social Security number to any Federal, State, or local agency maintaining a system of records in existence and operating before January 1, 1975, if such disclosure was required under statute or regulation adopted prior to such date to verify the identity of an individual.
(g) When Treasury requests that an individual discloses their Social Security number, it must inform the individual:
(1) Whether that disclosure is mandatory or voluntary;
(2) By what statutory or other authority such number is solicited; and
(3) What uses are made of the number.
(h) Treasury must provide the information in this section in the notice discussed in § 1.28(b)(2)(iv). (See section 7 of the Privacy Act of 1974 set forth at 5 U.S.C. 552a, note.)
See
section 7 of the Privacy Act of 1974 set forth at 5 U.S.C. 552a, note.)

§ 1.34   Guardianship.

The parent or guardian of a minor or a person judicially determined to be incompetent must, in addition to establishing the identity of the minor or other person represented, establish parentage or guardianship by furnishing a copy of a birth certificate showing parentage or a court order establishing the guardianship and may thereafter, act on behalf of such individual. (See 5 U.S.C. 552a(h).)
See
5 U.S.C. 552a(h).)

§ 1.35   Information forms.

(a) Review of forms. Except for forms developed and used by components, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Privacy, Transparency, & Records must review all forms Treasury develops and uses to collect information from and about individuals. Component heads are responsible for reviewing forms used by their component to collect information from and about individuals.
Review of forms.
Except for forms developed and used by components, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Privacy, Transparency, & Records must review all forms Treasury develops and uses to collect information from and about individuals. Component heads are responsible for reviewing forms used by their component to collect information from and about individuals.
(b) Scope of review. The responsible officers must review each form for the purpose of eliminating any requirement for information that is not relevant and necessary to carry out an agency function and to accomplish the following objectives:
Scope of review.
The responsible officers must review each form for the purpose of eliminating any requirement for information that is not relevant and necessary to carry out an agency function and to accomplish the following objectives:
(1) To ensure that Treasury does not collect information concerning religion, political beliefs or activities, association memberships, or the exercise of other First Amendment rights except as authorized in § 1.28(b)(2)(v);
(2) To ensure that the form on which information is collected (or a separate form that can be retained by the individual) makes clear what information the individual is required to disclose by law (and the statutory of other authority for that requirement), and what information requested is voluntary;
(3) To ensure that the form on which information is collected (or a separate form that can be retained by the individual) states clearly the principal purpose or purposes for which Treasury is collecting the information, and summarizes concisely the routine uses that will be made of the information;
(4) To ensure that the form on which information is collected (or a separate form that can be retained by the individual) clearly indicates to the individual the effect that not providing all, or part of the requested information will have on their rights, benefits, or privileges of; and
(5) To ensure that any form on which Treasury requests a Social Security number (SSN) (or a separate form that can be retained by the individual) clearly advises the individual of the statute or regulation requiring disclosure of the SSN or clearly advises the individual that disclosure is voluntary and that they will not be denied any right, benefit, or privilege if they refuse to voluntarily disclose it, and the uses that will be made of the SSN whether disclosed mandatorily or voluntarily.
(c) Revision of forms. The responsible officers must revise any form which does not meet the objectives specified in the Privacy Act as discussed in this section. A separate statement may be used in instances when a form does not conform. This statement will accompany a form and must include all the information necessary to accomplish the objectives specified in the Privacy Act and this section.
Revision of forms.
The responsible officers must revise any form which does not meet the objectives specified in the Privacy Act as discussed in this section. A separate statement may be used in instances when a form does not conform. This statement will accompany a form and must include all the information necessary to accomplish the objectives specified in the Privacy Act and this section.

§  1.36   Systems exempt in whole or in part from provisions of the Privacy Act and this part.

(a) In general. In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) and § 1.23(c), Treasury hereby exempts the systems of records identified in paragraphs (c) through (o) of this section from the following provisions of the Privacy Act for the reasons indicated.
In general.
In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) and § 1.23(c), Treasury hereby exempts the systems of records identified in paragraphs (c) through (o) of this section from the following provisions of the Privacy Act for the reasons indicated.
(b) Authority. The rules in this section are promulgated pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury by 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) and pursuant to the authority of §  1.23(c).
Authority.
The rules in this section are promulgated pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury by 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) and pursuant to the authority of §  1.23(c).
(c) General exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). (1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act if the agency or component thereof that maintains the system performs as its principal function any activities pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Certain Treasury components have as their principal function activities pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. This paragraph (c) applies to the following systems of records maintained by Treasury:
General exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act if the agency or component thereof that maintains the system performs as its principal function any activities pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Certain Treasury components have as their principal function activities pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. This paragraph (c) applies to the following systems of records maintained by Treasury:
(i) Treasury-wide.
Treasury-wide.
Table 1 to Paragraph (c)(1)(i)
(c)(1)(i)
No.
Name of system
Treasury .004
Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request Records.
(ii) Departmental Offices.
Departmental Offices.
Table 2 to Paragraph (c)(1)(ii)
(c)(1)(ii)
No.
Name of system
DO .190
Office of Inspector General Investigations Management Information System (formerly: Investigation Data Management System).
DO .220
SIGTARP Hotline Database.
DO .221
SIGTARP Correspondence Database.
DO .222
SIGTARP Investigative MIS Database.
DO .223
SIGTARP Investigative Files Database.
DO .224
SIGTARP Audit Files Database.
DO .303
TIGTA General Correspondence.
DO .307
TIGTA Employee Relations Matters, Appeals, Grievances, and Com plaint Files.
DO .308
TIGTA Data Extracts.
DO .309
TIGTA Chief Counsel Case Files. (also exempt from 552a subsection (d)(5).
DO .310
TIGTA Chief Counsel Disclosure Section Records. (also exempt from 552a subsection (d)(5)).
DO .311
TIGTA Office of Investigations Files.
(iii) Special Investigator for Pandemic Recovery (SIGPR).
Special Investigator for Pandemic Recovery (SIGPR).
Table 3 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iii)
(c)(1)(iii)
No.
Name of system
SIGPR .420
Audit and Evaluations Records.
SIGPR .421
Case Management System and Investigative Records.
SIGPR .423
Legal Records.
(iv) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).
Table 4 to Paragraph (c)(1)(iv)
(c)(1)(iv)
No.
Name of system
CC .110
Reports of Suspicious Activities.
CC .120
Bank Fraud Information System.
CC .220
Notices of Proposed Changes in Employees, Officers and Directors Tracking System (not exempt from 552a(c)(4)).
CC .500
Chief Counsel's Management Information System.
CC .510
Litigation Information System.
(v) Internal Revenue Service.
Internal Revenue Service.
Table 5 to Paragraph (c)(1)(v)
No.
Name of system
IRS 46.002
Criminal Investigation Management Information System and Case Files.
IRS 46.003
Confidential Informants, Criminal Investigation Division.
IRS 46.005
Electronic Surveillance and Monitoring Records, Criminal Investigation Division.
IRS 46.015
Relocated Witnesses, Criminal Investigation Division.
IRS 46.050
Automated Information Analysis System.
IRS 90.001
Chief Counsel Management Information System Records (not exempt from (c)(4), (e)(2), (e)(3) or (g)).
IRS 90.003
Chief Counsel Litigation and Advice (Criminal) Records.
IRS 90.004
Chief Counsel Legal Processing Division Records (not exempt from (c)(4), (e)(2), (e)(3) or (g)).
IRS 90.005
Chief Counsel Library Records (not exempt from (c)(4), (e)(2), (e)(3) or (g)).
(vi) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Table 6 to Paragraph (c)(1)(vi)
(c)(1)(vi)
No.
Name of system
FinCEN .001
FinCEN Investigations and Examinations System.
FinCEN .002
Suspicious Activity Reporting System.
FinCEN .003
Bank Secrecy Act Reports System.
FinCEN .004
Beneficial Ownership Information System (not exempt from 552a(e)(3) and (e)(4)(I)).
(2) The Department hereby exempts the systems of records listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2): 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4), 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (2), (3), (4), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), (2) and (3), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5) and (8), 5 U.S.C. 552a(f), and 5 U.S.C. 552a(g).
(d) Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). (1) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (f)(l) enable individuals to inquire whether a system of records contains records pertaining to them. Application of these provisions to the systems of records would give individuals an opportunity to learn whether they have been identified as suspects or subjects of investigation. As further described in the paragraphs (d)(2) through (12) of this section, access to such knowledge would impair the Department's ability to carry out its mission, since individuals could:
Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(1) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (f)(l) enable individuals to inquire whether a system of records contains records pertaining to them. Application of these provisions to the systems of records would give individuals an opportunity to learn whether they have been identified as suspects or subjects of investigation. As further described in the paragraphs (d)(2) through (12) of this section, access to such knowledge would impair the Department's ability to carry out its mission, since individuals could:
(i) Take steps to avoid detection;
(ii) Inform associates that an investigation is in progress;
(iii) Learn the nature of the investigation;
(iv) Learn whether they are only suspects or identified as law violators;
(v) Begin, continue, or resume illegal conduct upon learning that they are not identified in the system of records; or
(vi) Destroy evidence needed to prove the violation.
(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (e)(4)(H) and (f)(2), (3) and (5) grant individuals access to records pertaining to them. The application of these provisions to the systems of records would compromise the Department's ability to provide useful tactical and strategic information to law enforcement agencies.
(i) Permitting access to records contained in the systems of records would provide individuals with information concerning the nature of any current investigations and would enable them to avoid detection or apprehension by:
(A) Discovering the facts that would form the basis for their arrest;
(B) Enabling them to destroy or alter evidence of criminal conduct that would form the basis for their arrest; and
(C) Using knowledge that criminal investigators had reason to believe that a crime was about to be committed, to delay the commission of the crime or commit it at a location that might not be under surveillance.
(ii) Permitting access to either on-going or closed investigative files would also reveal investigative techniques and procedures, the knowledge of which could enable individuals planning crimes to structure their operations to avoid detection or apprehension.
(iii) Permitting access to investigative files and records could, moreover, disclose the identity of confidential sources and informants and the nature of the information supplied and thereby endanger the physical safety of those sources by exposing them to possible reprisals for having provided the information. Confidential sources and informants might refuse to provide criminal investigators with valuable information unless they believe that their identities will not be revealed through disclosure of their names or the nature of the information they supplied. Loss of access to such sources would seriously impair the Department's ability to carry out its mandate.
(iv) Furthermore, providing access to records contained in the systems of records could reveal the identities of undercover law enforcement officers who compiled information regarding the individual's criminal activities and thereby endanger the physical safety of those undercover officers or their families by exposing them to possible reprisals.
(v) By compromising the law enforcement value of the systems of records for the reasons outlined in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, permitting access in keeping with these provisions would discourage other law enforcement and regulatory agencies, foreign and domestic, from freely sharing information with the Department and thus would restrict the Department's access to information necessary to accomplish its mission most effectively.
(vi) Finally, the dissemination of certain information that the Department maintains in the systems of records is restricted by law.
(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2), (3) and (4), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(4) permit an individual to request amendment of a record pertaining to him or her and require the agency either to amend the record, or to note the disputed portion of the record and to provide a copy of the individual's statement of disagreement with the agency's refusal to amend a record to persons or other agencies to whom the record is thereafter disclosed. Since these provisions depend on the individual having access to his or her records, and since these rules exempt the systems of records from the provisions of the Privacy Act relating to access to records, for the reasons set out in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, these provisions should not apply to the systems of records.
(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make accountings of disclosures of a record available to the individual named in the record upon his or her request. The accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of the record and the name and address of the recipient.
(i) The application of this provision would impair the ability of law enforcement agencies outside the Department of the Treasury to make effective use of information provided by the Department. Making accountings of disclosures available to the subjects of an investigation would alert them to the fact that another agency is conducting an investigation into their criminal activities and could reveal the geographic location of the other agency's investigation, the nature and purpose of that investigation, and the dates on which that investigation was active. Individuals possessing such knowledge would be able to take measures to avoid detection or apprehension by altering their operations, by transferring their criminal activities to other geographical areas, or by destroying or concealing evidence that would form the basis for arrest. In the case of a delinquent account, such release might enable the subject of the investigation to dissipate assets before levy.
(ii) Moreover, providing accountings to the subjects of investigations would alert them to the fact that the Department has information regarding their criminal activities and could inform them of the general nature of that information. Access to such information could reveal the operation of the Department's information-gathering and analysis systems and permit individuals to take steps to avoid detection or apprehension.
(5) 5 U.S.C. 552(c)(4) requires an agency to inform any person or other agency about any correction or notation of dispute that the agency made in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) to any record that the agency disclosed to the person or agency if an accounting of the disclosure was made. Since this provision depends on an individual's having access to and an opportunity to request amendment of records pertaining to him or her, and since these rules exempt the systems of records from the provisions of the Privacy Act relating to access to and amendment of records, for the reasons set out in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, this provision should not apply to the systems of records.
(6) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish a general notice listing the categories of sources for information contained in a system of records. The application of this provision to the systems of records could compromise the Department's ability to provide useful information to law enforcement agencies, since revealing sources for the information could:
(i) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures;
(ii) Result in threats or reprisals against informants by the subjects of investigations; and
(iii) Cause informants to refuse to give full information to criminal investigators for fear of having their identities as sources disclosed.
(7) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required to be accomplished by statute or Executive order. The term maintain, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(3), includes collect and disseminate. The application of this provision to the systems of records could impair the Department's ability to collect and disseminate valuable law enforcement information.
maintain,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(3), includes
collect
and
disseminate.
The application of this provision to the systems of records could impair the Department's ability to collect and disseminate valuable law enforcement information.
(i) In many cases, especially in the early stages of investigation, it may be impossible to immediately determine whether information collected is relevant and necessary, and information that initially appears irrelevant and unnecessary often may, upon further evaluation or upon collation with information developed subsequently, prove particularly relevant to a law enforcement program.
(ii) Not all violations of law discovered by the Department fall within the investigative jurisdiction of the Department of the Treasury. To promote effective law enforcement, the Department will have to disclose such violations to other law enforcement agencies, including State, local, and foreign agencies, that have jurisdiction over the offenses to which the information relates. Otherwise, the Department might be placed in the position of having to ignore information relating to violations of law not within the jurisdiction of the Department of the Treasury when that information comes to the Department's attention during the collation and analysis of information in its records.
(8) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(2) requires an agency to collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs. The application of this provision to the systems of records would impair the Department's ability to collate, analyze, and disseminate investigative, intelligence, and enforcement information.
(i) Most information collected about an individual under criminal investigation is obtained from third parties, such as witnesses and informants. It is usually not feasible to rely upon the subject of the investigation as a source for information regarding his criminal activities.
(ii) An attempt to obtain information from the subject of a criminal investigation will often alert that individual to the existence of an investigation, thereby affording the individual an opportunity to attempt to conceal his criminal activities so as to avoid apprehension.
(iii) In certain instances, the subject of a criminal investigation may assert his/her constitutional right to remain silent and refuse to supply information to criminal investigators upon request.
(iv) During criminal investigations it is often a matter of sound investigative procedure to obtain information from a variety of sources to verify information already obtained from the subject of a criminal investigation or other sources.
(9) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) requires an agency to inform each individual whom it asks to supply information, on the form that it uses to collect the information or on a separate form that the individual can retain, of the agency's authority for soliciting the information; whether disclosure of information is voluntary or mandatory; the principal purposes for which the agency will use the information; the routine uses that may be made of the information; and the effects on the individual of not providing all or part of the information. The systems of records should be exempted from this provision to avoid impairing the Department's ability to collect and collate investigative, intelligence, and enforcement data.
(i) Confidential sources or undercover law enforcement officers often obtain information under circumstances in which it is necessary to keep the true purpose of their actions secret so as not to let the subject of the investigation or his or her associates know that a criminal investigation is in progress.
(ii) If it became known that the undercover officer was assisting in a criminal investigation, that officer's physical safety could be endangered through reprisal, and that officer may not be able to continue working on the investigation.
(iii) Individuals often feel inhibited in talking to a person representing a criminal law enforcement agency but are willing to talk to a confidential source or undercover officer whom they believe are not involved in law enforcement activities.
(iv) Providing a confidential source of information with written evidence that he or she was a source, as required by this provision, could increase the likelihood that the source of information would be subject to retaliation by the subject of the investigation.
(v) Individuals may be contacted during preliminary information gathering, surveys, or compliance projects concerning the administration of the internal revenue laws before any individual is identified as the subject of an investigation. Informing the individual of the matters required by this provision would impede or compromise subsequent investigations.
(10) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5) requires an agency to maintain all records it uses in making any determination about any individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination.
(i) Since 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(3) defines maintain to include collect and disseminate, application of this provision to the systems of records would hinder the initial collection of any information that could not, at the moment of collection, be determined to be accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. Similarly, application of this provision would seriously restrict the Department's ability to disseminate information pertaining to a possible violation of law-to-law enforcement and regulatory agencies. In collecting information during a criminal investigation, it is often impossible or unfeasible to determine accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness prior to collection of the information. In disseminating information to law enforcement and regulatory agencies, it is often impossible to determine accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness prior to dissemination because the Department may not have the expertise with which to make such determinations.
maintain
to include
collect
and
disseminate,
application of this provision to the systems of records would hinder the initial collection of any information that could not, at the moment of collection, be determined to be accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. Similarly, application of this provision would seriously restrict the Department's ability to disseminate information pertaining to a possible violation of law-to-law enforcement and regulatory agencies. In collecting information during a criminal investigation, it is often impossible or unfeasible to determine accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness prior to collection of the information. In disseminating information to law enforcement and regulatory agencies, it is often impossible to determine accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness prior to dissemination because the Department may not have the expertise with which to make such determinations.
(ii) Information that may initially appear inaccurate, irrelevant, untimely, or incomplete may, when collated and analyzed with other available information, become more pertinent as an investigation progresses. In addition, application of this provision could seriously impede criminal investigators and intelligence analysts in the exercise of their judgment in reporting results obtained during criminal investigations.
(11) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8) requires an agency to make reasonable efforts to serve notice on an individual when the agency makes any record on the individual available to any person under compulsory legal process, when such process becomes a matter of public record. The systems of records should be exempted from this provision to avoid revealing investigative techniques and procedures outlined in those records and to prevent revelation of the existence of an ongoing investigation where there is need to keep the existence of the investigation secret.
(12) 5 U.S.C. 552a(g) provides for civil remedies to an individual when an agency wrongfully refuses to amend a record or to review a request for amendment, when an agency wrongfully refuses to grant access to a record, when an agency fails to maintain accurate, relevant, timely, and complete records which are used to make a determination adverse to the individual, and when an agency fails to comply with any other provision of the Privacy Act so as to adversely affect the individual. The systems of records should be exempted from this provision to the extent that the civil remedies may relate to provisions of the Privacy Act from which these rules exempt the systems of records, since there should be no civil remedies for failure to comply with provisions from which the Department is exempted. Exemption from this provision will also protect the Department from baseless civil court actions that might hamper its ability to collate, analyze, and disseminate investigative, intelligence, and law enforcement data.
(e) Specific exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). (1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act to the extent that the system contains information subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1). This paragraph (e) applies to the following systems of records maintained by the Department of the Treasury:
Specific exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act to the extent that the system contains information subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1). This paragraph (e) applies to the following systems of records maintained by the Department of the Treasury:
(i) Treasury-wide.
Treasury-wide.
Table 7 to Paragraph (e)(1)(i)
(e)(1)(i)
No.
Name of system
Treasury .004
Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request Records.
(ii) Departmental Offices.
Departmental Offices.
Table 8 to Paragraph (e)(1)(ii)
(e)(1)(ii)
No.
Name of system
DO .120
Records Related to Office of Foreign Assets Control Economic Sanctions.
DO .227
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) Case Management System.
DO .411
Intelligence Enterprise Files.
DO .413
Outbound Investment Security Program Notification System.
(iii) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Table 9 to Paragraph (e)(1)(iii)
(e)(1)(iii)
No.
Name of system
FinCEN .001
FinCEN Investigations and Examinations System.
(2) The Department of the Treasury hereby exempts the systems of records listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1): 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and 5 U.S.C. 552a(f).
(f) Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). The reason for invoking the exemption is to protect material authorized to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy pursuant to Executive Orders 12958, 13526, or successor or prior Executive orders.
Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
The reason for invoking the exemption is to protect material authorized to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy pursuant to Executive Orders 12958, 13526, or successor or prior Executive orders.
(g) Specific exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). (1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act if the system is investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes and for the purposes of assuring the safety of individuals protected by the Department pursuant to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3056. This paragraph (g) applies to the following systems of records maintained by the Department of the Treasury:
Specific exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act if the system is investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes and for the purposes of assuring the safety of individuals protected by the Department pursuant to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3056. This paragraph (g) applies to the following systems of records maintained by the Department of the Treasury:
(i) Treasury-wide.
Treasury-wide.
Table 10 to Paragraph (g)(1)(i)
(g)(1)(i)
No.
Name of system
Treasury .004
Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request Records.
Treasury .013
Department of the Treasury, Civil Rights Complaints, Compliance Reviews, and Fairness in Federal Programs Files.
(ii) Departmental Offices.
Departmental Offices.
Table 11 to Paragraph (g)(1)(ii)
(g)(1)(ii)
No.
Name of system
DO .120
Records Related to Office of Foreign Assets Control Economic Sanctions.
DO .144
General Counsel Litigation Referral and Reporting System.
DO .190
Office of Inspector General Investigations Management Information System (formerly: Investigation Data Management System).
DO .220
SIGTARP Hotline Database.
DO .221
SIGTARP Correspondence Database.
DO .222
SIGTARP Investigative MIS Database.
DO .223
SIGTARP Investigative Files Database.
DO .224
SIGTARP Audit Files Database.
DO .225
TARP Fraud Investigation Information System.
DO .227
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) Case Management System.
DO .303
TIGTA General Correspondence.
DO .307
TIGTA Employee Relations Matters, Appeals, Grievances, and Complaint Files.
DO .308
TIGTA Data Extracts.
DO .309
TIGTA Chief Counsel Case Files.
DO .310
TIGTA Chief Counsel Disclosure Section Records.
DO .311
TIGTA Office of Investigations Files.
DO .413
Outbound Investment Security Program Notification System.
(iii) Special Investigator for Pandemic Recovery (SIGPR).
Special Investigator for Pandemic Recovery (SIGPR).
Table 12 to Paragraph (g)(1)(iii)
(g)(1)(iii)
No.
Name of system
SIGPR .420
Audit and Evaluations Records.
SIGPR .421
Case Management System and Investigative Records.
SIGPR .423
Legal Records.
(iv) The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB).
The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB).
Table 13 to Paragraph (g)(1)(iv)
(g)(1)(iv)
No.
Name of system
TTB .001
Regulatory Enforcement Record System.
(v) Comptroller of the Currency.
Comptroller of the Currency.
Table 14 to Paragraph (g)(1)(v)
(g)(1)(v)
No.
Name of system
CC .100
Enforcement Action Report System.
CC .110
Reports of Suspicious Activities.
CC .120
Bank Fraud Information System.
CC .220
Notices of Proposed Changes in Employees, Officers and Directors Tracking System.
CC .500
Chief Counsel's Management Information System.
CC .510
Litigation Information System.
CC .600
Consumer Complaint and Inquiry Information Systems.
CC .800
Office of Inspector General Investigations System.
(vi) Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
Table 15 to Paragraph (g)(1)(vi)
(g)(1)(vi)
No.
Name of system
BEP .021
Investigative files.
(vii) Internal Revenue Service.
Internal Revenue Service.
Table 16 to Paragraph (g)(1)(vii)
(g)(1)(vii)
No.
Name of system
IRS 00.002
Correspondence File-Inquiries about Enforcement Activities.
IRS 00.007
Employee Complaint and Allegation Referral Records.
IRS 00.334
Third Party Contact Reprisal Records.
IRS 22.061
IRS 24.047
Wage and Information Returns Processing (IRP).
Audit Underreporter Case Files.
IRS 26.001
Acquired Property Records.
IRS 26.006
Form 2209, Courtesy Investigations.
IRS 26.012
Offer in Compromise (OIC) Files.
IRS 26.013
One-hundred Per Cent Penalty Cases.
IRS 26.019
TDA (Taxpayer Delinquent Accounts).
IRS 26.020
TDI (Taxpayer Delinquency Investigations) Files.
IRS 26.021
Transferee Files.
IRS 34.018
Treasury/IRS Insider Risk Management Records.
IRS 34.037
IRS Audit Trail and Security Records System.
IRS 37.007
Practitioner Disciplinary Records.
IRS 37.009
Enrolled Agent and Enrolled Retirement Plan Agent Records.
IRS 37.111
IRS 42.001
IRS 42.002
IRS 42.005
Preparer Tax Identification Number Records.
Examination Administrative File.
Excise
Compliance Programs.
Whistleblower Office Records.
IRS 42.008
Audit Information Management System (AIMS).
IRS 42.017
International Enforcement Program Files.
IRS 42.021
Compliance Programs and Projects Files.
IRS 42.031
IRS 44.001
Anti-Money laundering/Bank Secrecy Act and form 8300.
Appeals Case Files.
IRS 46.050
Automated Information Analysis System.
IRS 48.001
Disclosure Records.
IRS 49.001
Collateral and Information Requests System.
IRS 49.002
Component Authority and Index Card Microfilm Retrieval System.
IRS 50.222
IRS 60.000
IRS 90.001
Tax Exempt/Government Entities (TE/GE) Case Management Records.
Employee Protection System
Records.
Chief Counsel Management Information System Records (k2 and J2 only).
IRS 90.002
Chief Counsel Disclosure Litigation Division Case Files.
IRS 90.004
Chief Counsel General Legal Services Case Files.
IRS 90.005
Chief Counsel General Litigation Case Files.
(viii) Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
Table 17 to Paragraph (g)(1)(viii)
(g)(1)(viii)
No.
Name of system
FS .020
U.S. Treasury Securities Fraud Information System.
(ix) Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Table 18 to Paragraph (g)(1)(ix)
(g)(1)(ix)
No.
Name of system
FinCEN .001
FinCEN Database.
FinCEN .002
Suspicious Activity Reporting System.
FinCEN .003
FinCEN .004
Bank Secrecy Act Reports System.
Beneficial Ownership Information System (not exempt from 552a(e)(3) and (e)(4)(I)).
FinCEN .004
Beneficial Ownership Information System (not exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) and 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I)).
(2) The Department hereby exempts the systems of records listed in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (ix) of this section from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2): 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (2), (3), (4), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and 5 U.S.C. 552a(f).
(h) Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). (1) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make accountings of disclosures of a record available to the individual named in the record upon his or her request. The accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of the record and the name and address of the recipient.
Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(1) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make accountings of disclosures of a record available to the individual named in the record upon his or her request. The accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of the record and the name and address of the recipient.
(i) The application of this provision would impair the ability of the Department of the Treasury and of law enforcement agencies outside the Department to make effective use of information maintained by the Department. Making accountings of disclosures available to the subjects of an investigation would alert them to the fact that an agency is conducting an investigation into their illegal activities and could reveal the geographic location of the investigation, the nature and purpose of that investigation, and the dates on which that investigation was active. Individuals possessing such knowledge would be able to take measures to avoid detection or apprehension by altering their operations, by transferring their illegal activities to other geographical areas, or by destroying or concealing evidence that would form the basis for detection or apprehension. In the case of a delinquent account, such release might enable the subject of the investigation to dissipate assets before levy.
(ii) Providing accountings to the subjects of investigations would alert them to the fact that the Department has information regarding their illegal activities and could inform them of the general nature of that information.
(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (e)(4)(H) and (f)(2), (3), and (5) grant individuals access to records pertaining to them. The application of these provisions to the systems of records would compromise the Department's ability to utilize and provide useful tactical and strategic information to law enforcement agencies.
(i) Permitting access to records contained in the systems of records would provide individuals with information concerning the nature of any current investigations and would enable them to avoid detection or apprehension by:
(A) Discovering the facts that would form the basis for their detection or apprehension;
(B) Enabling them to destroy or alter evidence of illegal conduct that would form the basis for their detection or apprehension; and
(C) Using knowledge that investigators had reason to believe that a violation of law was about to be committed, to delay the commission of the violation or commit it at a location that might not be under surveillance.
(ii) Permitting access to either on-going or closed investigative files would also reveal investigative techniques and procedures, the knowledge of which could enable individuals planning non-criminal acts to structure their operations so as to avoid detection or apprehension.
(iii) Permitting access to investigative files and records could, moreover, disclose the identity of confidential sources and informants and the nature of the information supplied and thereby endanger the physical safety of those sources by exposing them to possible reprisals for having provided the information. Confidential sources and informants might refuse to provide investigators with valuable information unless they believed that their identities would not be revealed through disclosure of their names or the nature of the information they supplied. Loss of access to such sources would seriously impair the Department's ability to carry out its mandate.
(iv) Furthermore, providing access to records contained in the systems of records could reveal the identities of undercover law enforcement officers or other persons who compiled information regarding the individual's illegal activities and thereby endanger the physical safety of those undercover officers, persons, or their families by exposing them to possible reprisals.
(v) By compromising the law enforcement value of the systems of records for the reasons outlined in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, permitting access in keeping with these provisions would discourage other law enforcement and regulatory agencies, foreign and domestic, from freely sharing information with the Department and thus would restrict the Department's access to information necessary to accomplish its mission most effectively.
(vi) Finally, the dissemination of certain information that the Department may maintain in the systems of records is restricted by law.
(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2), (3), and (4), (e)(4)(H), and (f)(4) permit an individual to request amendment of a record pertaining to him or her and require the agency either to amend the record, or to note the disputed portion of the record and to provide a copy of the individual's statement of disagreement with the agency's refusal to amend a record to persons or other agencies to whom the record is thereafter disclosed. Since these provisions depend on the individual having access to his or her records, and since these rules exempt the systems of records from the provisions of the Privacy Act relating to access to records, these provisions should not apply to the systems of records for the reasons set out in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required by statute or Executive order. The term maintain, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(3), includes collect and disseminate. The application of this provision to the system of records could impair the Department's ability to collect, utilize and disseminate valuable law enforcement information.
maintain,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(3), includes
collect
and
disseminate.
The application of this provision to the system of records could impair the Department's ability to collect, utilize and disseminate valuable law enforcement information.
(i) In many cases, especially in the early stages of investigation, it may be impossible immediately to determine whether information collected is relevant and necessary, and information that initially appears irrelevant and unnecessary often may, upon further evaluation or upon collation with information developed subsequently, prove particularly relevant to a law enforcement program.
(ii) Not all violations of law discovered by the Department analysts fall within the investigative jurisdiction of the Department of the Treasury. To promote effective law enforcement, the Department will have to disclose such violations to other law enforcement agencies, including State, local, and foreign agencies that have jurisdiction over the offenses to which the information relates. Otherwise, the Department might be placed in the position of having to ignore information relating to violations of law not within the jurisdiction of the Department of the Treasury when that information comes to the Department's attention during the collation and analysis of information in its records.
(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (f)(1) enable individuals to inquire whether a system of records contains records pertaining to them. Application of these provisions to the systems of records would allow individuals to learn whether they have been identified as suspects or subjects of investigation. As further described in paragraphs (h)(5)(i) through (vi) of this section, access to such knowledge would impair the Department's ability to carry out its mission, since individuals could:
(i) Take steps to avoid detection;
(ii) Inform associates that an investigation is in progress;
(iii) Learn the nature of the investigation;
(iv) Learn whether they are only suspects or identified as law violators;
(v) Begin, continue, or resume illegal conduct upon learning that they are not identified in the system of records; or
(vi) Destroy evidence needed to prove the violation.
(6) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish a general notice listing the categories of sources for information contained in a system of records. The application of this provision to the systems of records could compromise the Department's ability to complete or continue investigations or to provide useful information to law enforcement agencies, since revealing sources for the information could:
(i) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures;
(ii) Result in threats or reprisals against informants by the subjects of investigations; and
(iii) Cause informants to refuse to give full information to investigators for fear of having their identities as sources disclosed.
(i) Specific exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4). (1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act if the system is required by statute to be maintained and used solely as statistical records. This paragraph (i) applies to the following system of records maintained by the Department, for which exemption is claimed under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
Specific exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act if the system is required by statute to be maintained and used solely as statistical records. This paragraph (i) applies to the following system of records maintained by the Department, for which exemption is claimed under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(i) Treasury-wide.
Treasury-wide.
Table 19 to Paragraph (i)(1)(i)
(i)(1)(i)
No.
Name of system
Treasury .004
Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request Records.
(ii) Internal Revenue Service.
Internal Revenue Service.
Table 20 to Paragraph (i)(1)(ii)
(i)(1)(ii)
No.
Name of system
IRS 70.001
Individual Income Tax Returns, Statistics of Income.
(2) The Department hereby exempts the system of records listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4): 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and 5 U.S.C. 552a(f).
(3) The system of records is maintained under 26 U.S.C. 6108, which requires that the Secretary or his delegate prepare and publish annually statistics reasonably available with respect to the operation of the income tax laws, including classifications of taxpayers and of income, the amounts allowed as deductions, exemptions, and credits, and any other facts deemed pertinent and valuable.
(j) Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4). The reason for exempting the system of records is that disclosure of statistical records (including release of accounting for disclosures) would in most instances be of no benefit to a particular individual since the records do not have a direct effect on a given individual.
Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
The reason for exempting the system of records is that disclosure of statistical records (including release of accounting for disclosures) would in most instances be of no benefit to a particular individual since the records do not have a direct effect on a given individual.
(k) Specific exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). (1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act if the system is investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment or access to classified information, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. Thus, to the extent that the records in this system can be disclosed without revealing the identity of a confidential source, they are not within the scope of this exemption and are subject to all the requirements of the Privacy Act. This paragraph (j) applies to the following systems of records maintained by the Department or one of its bureaus:
Specific exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records within the agency from certain provisions of the Privacy Act if the system is investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment or access to classified information, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. Thus, to the extent that the records in this system can be disclosed without revealing the identity of a confidential source, they are not within the scope of this exemption and are subject to all the requirements of the Privacy Act. This paragraph (j) applies to the following systems of records maintained by the Department or one of its bureaus:
(i) Treasury-wide.
Treasury-wide.
Table 21 to Paragraph (k)(1)(i)
(k)(1)(i)
No.
Name of system
Treasury .004
Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Request Records.
Treasury .007
Personnel Security System.
(ii) Departmental Offices.
Departmental Offices.
Table 22 to Paragraph (k)(1)(ii)
(k)(1)(ii)
No.
Name of system
DO .004
Personnel Security System.
DO .306
TIGTA Recruiting and Placement Records.
(iii) Internal Revenue Service.
Internal Revenue Service.
Table 23 to Paragraph (k)(1)(iii)
(k)(1)(iii)
No.
Name of system
IRS 34.018
Treasury/IRS Insider Risk Management Records.
IRS 34.021
Personnel Security Investigations.
IRS 34.022
Automated Background Investigations System (ABIS).
IRS 90.006
Chief Counsel Human Resources and Administrative Records.
(2) The Department hereby exempts the systems of records listed in paragraphs (k)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5): 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and 5 U.S.C. 552a(f).
(l) Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). (1) The sections of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which the systems of records are exempt include in general those providing for individuals' access to or amendment of records. When such access or amendment would cause the identity of a confidential source to be revealed, it would impair the future ability of the Department to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. In addition, the systems shall be exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) which requires that an agency maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required to be accomplished by statute or executive order. The Department believes that to fulfill the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) would unduly restrict the agency in its information gathering inasmuch as it is often not until well after the investigation that it is possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information.
Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(1) The sections of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which the systems of records are exempt include in general those providing for individuals' access to or amendment of records. When such access or amendment would cause the identity of a confidential source to be revealed, it would impair the future ability of the Department to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. In addition, the systems shall be exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) which requires that an agency maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required to be accomplished by statute or executive order. The Department believes that to fulfill the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) would unduly restrict the agency in its information gathering inasmuch as it is often not until well after the investigation that it is possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information.
(2) If any investigatory material contained in the above-named systems becomes involved in criminal or civil matters, exemptions of such material under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) or (k)(2) is hereby claimed.
(m) Exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6). (1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records that is testing, or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process. This paragraph (m) applies to the following system of records maintained by the Department, for which exemption is claimed under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).
Exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).
(1) Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), the head of any agency may promulgate rules to exempt any system of records that is testing, or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process. This paragraph (m) applies to the following system of records maintained by the Department, for which exemption is claimed under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).
(i) Treasury-wide.
Treasury-wide.
Table 24 to Paragraph (m)(1)(i)
(m)(1)(i)
No.
Name of system
Treasury .004
Freedom of Information Act/privacy Act Request Records.
(ii) Departmental Offices.
Departmental Offices.
Table 25 to Paragraph (m)(1)(ii)
(m)(1)(ii)
No.
Name of system
DO .306
TIGTA Recruiting and Placement Records.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) The Department hereby exempts the system of records listed in paragraph (m)(1) of this section from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6): 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), (2), (3), and (4), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and 5 U.S.C. 552a(f).
(n) Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6). The reason for exempting the system of records is that disclosure of the material in the system would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the examination process.
Reasons for exemptions under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).
The reason for exempting the system of records is that disclosure of the material in the system would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the examination process.
(o) Exempt information included in another system. Any information from a system of records for which an exemption is claimed under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k) which is also included in another system of records retains the same exempt status such information has in the system for which such exemption is claimed.
Exempt information included in another system.
Any information from a system of records for which an exemption is claimed under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k) which is also included in another system of records retains the same exempt status such information has in the system for which such exemption is claimed.
[[88 FR 88815, Dec. 26, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 101889, Dec. 17, 2024; 90 FR 20396, May 14, 2025]]

Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 1—Departmental Offices

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Departmental Offices as defined in this subpart, § 1.20. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records, the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records, the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statement of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.”
In general.
This appendix applies to the Departmental Offices as defined in this subpart, § 1.20. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records, the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records, the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statement of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.”
2. Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures. Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Departmental Offices, will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested, or the delegate of such official. This information is contained in the appropriate system notice in the “Privacy Act Issuances”, published annually by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records should be addressed to:
Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures.
Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Departmental Offices, will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested, or the delegate of such official. This information is contained in the appropriate system notice in the “Privacy Act Issuances”, published annually by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records should be addressed to:
Privacy Act Request, DO, Director, FOIA and Transparency, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220. Requests may also be submitted: on the Treasury/FOIA portal, which can be found at: https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act/submit-a-request; or by email at FOIA@treasury.gov.
https://home.treasury.gov/footer/freedom-of-information-act/submit-a-request;
or by email at
FOIA@treasury.gov.
3. Requests for amendments of records. Initial determinations under § 1.27(a) through (d) with respect to requests to amend records for records maintained by the Departmental Offices will be made by the head of the organization or unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of such official. Requests for amendment of records should be addressed as indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send these requests should be addressed to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, DO, Director, FOIA and Transparency, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Requests for amendments of records.
Initial determinations under § 1.27(a) through (d) with respect to requests to amend records for records maintained by the Departmental Offices will be made by the head of the organization or unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of such official. Requests for amendment of records should be addressed as indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send these requests should be addressed to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, DO, Director, FOIA and Transparency, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determination refusing to amend record. Appellate determinations under § 1.27(e) with respect to records of the Departmental Offices, including extensions of time on appeal, will be made by the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Under Secretary, General Counsel, Special Inspector General for Troubled Assets Relief Program, or Assistant Secretary having jurisdiction over the organizational unit which has immediate custody of the records, or the delegate of such official, as limited by 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2) and (3). Appeals made by mail should be addressed as indicated in the letter of initial decision or to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, DO, Director, FOIA and Transparency, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Administrative appeal of initial determination refusing to amend record.
Appellate determinations under § 1.27(e) with respect to records of the Departmental Offices, including extensions of time on appeal, will be made by the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Under Secretary, General Counsel, Special Inspector General for Troubled Assets Relief Program, or Assistant Secretary having jurisdiction over the organizational unit which has immediate custody of the records, or the delegate of such official, as limited by 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2) and (3). Appeals made by mail should be addressed as indicated in the letter of initial decision or to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, DO, Director, FOIA and Transparency, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
5. Statements of disagreement. “Statements of Disagreement” as described in § 1.27(e)(4) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of notification and should be limited to one page.
Statements of disagreement.
“Statements of Disagreement” as described in § 1.27(e)(4) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of notification and should be limited to one page.
6. Service of process. Service of process will be received by the General Counsel of the Department of the Treasury or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: General Counsel, Department of the Treasury, Room 3000, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Service of process.
Service of process will be received by the General Counsel of the Department of the Treasury or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: General Counsel, Department of the Treasury, Room 3000, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
7. Annual notice of systems of records. The annual notice of systems of records required to be published by the Office of the Federal Register in the publication entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 and section 8 of this appendix, and locations for access are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.
Annual notice of systems of records.
The annual notice of systems of records required to be published by the Office of the Federal Register in the publication entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 and section 8 of this appendix, and locations for access are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.
8. Verification of identity. An individual seeking notification or access to records, or seeking to amend a record, must satisfy one of the following identification requirements before action will be taken by the Departmental Offices on any such request:
Verification of identity.
An individual seeking notification or access to records, or seeking to amend a record, must satisfy one of the following identification requirements before action will be taken by the Departmental Offices on any such request:
(i) An individual seeking notification or access to records in person, or seeking to amend a record in person, may establish identity by the presentation of a single official document bearing a photograph (such as a passport or identification badge) or by the presentation of two items of identification which do not bear a photograph but do bear both a name and signature (such as a driver's license or credit card).
(ii) An individual seeking notification or access to records by mail, or seeking to amend a record by mail, may establish identity by a signature, address, and one other identifier such as a photocopy of a driver's license or other official document bearing the individual's signature.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs 8(i) and (ii) of this appendix, an individual seeking notification or access to records by mail or in person, or seeking to amend a record by mail or in person, who so desires, may establish identity by providing a notarized statement, swearing or affirming to such individual's identity and to the fact that the individual understands the penalties provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3) for requesting or obtaining access to records under false pretenses.
(iv) Notwithstanding paragraph 8(i), (ii), or (iii) of this appendix, a designated official may require additional proof of an individual's identity before action will be taken on any request, if such official determines that it is necessary to protect against unauthorized disclosure of information in a particular case. In addition, a parent of any minor or a legal guardian of any individual will be required to provide adequate proof of legal relationship before such person may act on behalf of such minor or such individual.

Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1—Internal Revenue Service

1. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to set forth the procedures that have been established by the Internal Revenue Service for individuals to exercise their rights under the Privacy Act (Pub. L. 93-579, 88 Stat. 1896) with respect to systems of records maintained by the Internal Revenue Service, including the Office of the Chief Counsel. The procedures contained in this section are to be promulgated under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The procedures contained in this section relate to the following:
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to set forth the procedures that have been established by the Internal Revenue Service for individuals to exercise their rights under the Privacy Act (Pub. L. 93-579, 88 Stat. 1896) with respect to systems of records maintained by the Internal Revenue Service, including the Office of the Chief Counsel. The procedures contained in this section are to be promulgated under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The procedures contained in this section relate to the following:
(a) The procedures whereby an individual can be notified in response to a request if a system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to such individual (5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(1)).
(b) The procedures governing reasonable times, places, and requirements for identifying an individual who requests a record of information pertaining to such individual before the Internal Revenue Service will make the record or information available to the individual (5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(2)).
(c) The procedures for the disclosure to an individual upon a request of a record of information pertaining to such individual, including special procedures for the disclosure to an individual of medical records, including psychological records (5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(3)).
(d) The procedures for reviewing a request from an individual concerning the amendment of any record or information pertaining to the individual, for making a determination on the request, for an appeal within the Internal Revenue Service of an initial adverse agency determination, and for whatever additional means may be necessary for individuals to be able to exercise fully their right under the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(4)).
Any individual seeking to determine whether a system of records maintained by any office of the Internal Revenue Service contains a record or information pertaining to such individual, or seeking access to, or amendment of, such a record, must comply fully with the applicable procedure contained in section 3 or 4 of this appendix before the Internal Revenue Service will act on the request. Neither the notification and access (or accounting of disclosures) procedures under section 3 of this appendix nor the amendment procedures under section 4 of this appendix are applicable to:
(i) Systems of records exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k);
(ii) Information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding (see 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5)); or
(iii) Information pertaining to an individual which is contained in, and inseparable from, another individual's record.
2. Access to and amendment of tax records. The provisions of the Privacy Act may not be used by an individual to amend or correct any tax record. The determination of liability for taxes imposed by the Internal Revenue Service Code, the collection of such taxes, and the payment (including credits or refunds of overpayments) of such taxes are governed by the provisions of the Internal Revenue Service Code and by the procedural rules of the Internal Revenue Service. These provisions set forth the established procedures governing the determination of liability for tax, the collection of such taxes, and the payment (including credits or refunds of overpayments) of such taxes. In addition, these provisions set forth the procedures (including procedures for judicial review) for resolving disputes between taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service involving the amount of tax owed, or the payment or collection of such tax. These procedures are the exclusive means available to an individual to contest the amount of any liability for tax or the payment or collection thereof. See, for example, 26 CFR 601.103 for summary of general tax procedures. Individuals are advised that Internal Revenue Service procedures permit the examination of tax records during the course of an investigation, audit, or collection activity. Accordingly, individuals should contact the Internal Revenue Service employee conducting an audit or effecting the collection of tax liabilities to gain access to such records, rather than seeking access under the provisions of the Privacy Act. Where, on the other hand, an individual desires information or records not in connection with an investigation, audit, or collection activity, the individual may follow these procedures.
Access to and amendment of tax records.
The provisions of the Privacy Act may not be used by an individual to amend or correct any tax record. The determination of liability for taxes imposed by the Internal Revenue Service Code, the collection of such taxes, and the payment (including credits or refunds of overpayments) of such taxes are governed by the provisions of the Internal Revenue Service Code and by the procedural rules of the Internal Revenue Service. These provisions set forth the established procedures governing the determination of liability for tax, the collection of such taxes, and the payment (including credits or refunds of overpayments) of such taxes. In addition, these provisions set forth the procedures (including procedures for judicial review) for resolving disputes between taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service involving the amount of tax owed, or the payment or collection of such tax. These procedures are the exclusive means available to an individual to contest the amount of any liability for tax or the payment or collection thereof. See, for example, 26 CFR 601.103 for summary of general tax procedures. Individuals are advised that Internal Revenue Service procedures permit the examination of tax records during the course of an investigation, audit, or collection activity. Accordingly, individuals should contact the Internal Revenue Service employee conducting an audit or effecting the collection of tax liabilities to gain access to such records, rather than seeking access under the provisions of the Privacy Act. Where, on the other hand, an individual desires information or records not in connection with an investigation, audit, or collection activity, the individual may follow these procedures.
3. Procedures for access to records—(a) In general. This paragraph sets forth the procedure whereby an individual can be notified in response to a request if a system of records named by the individual which is maintained by the Internal Revenue Service contains a record pertaining to such individual. In addition, this paragraph sets forth the procedure for the disclosure to an individual upon a request of a record or information pertaining to such individual, including the procedures for verifying the identity of the individual before the Internal Revenue Service will make a record available, and the procedure for requesting an accounting of disclosures of such records. An individual seeking to determine whether a particular system of records contains a record or records pertaining to such individual and seeking access to such records (or seeking an accounting of disclosures of such records) shall make a request for notification and access (or a request for an accounting of disclosures) in accordance with the rules provided in paragraph 3(b) of this appendix.
Procedures for access to records
—(a)
In general.
This paragraph sets forth the procedure whereby an individual can be notified in response to a request if a system of records named by the individual which is maintained by the Internal Revenue Service contains a record pertaining to such individual. In addition, this paragraph sets forth the procedure for the disclosure to an individual upon a request of a record or information pertaining to such individual, including the procedures for verifying the identity of the individual before the Internal Revenue Service will make a record available, and the procedure for requesting an accounting of disclosures of such records. An individual seeking to determine whether a particular system of records contains a record or records pertaining to such individual and seeking access to such records (or seeking an accounting of disclosures of such records) shall make a request for notification and access (or a request for an accounting of disclosures) in accordance with the rules provided in paragraph 3(b) of this appendix.
(b) Form of request for notification and access or request for an accounting of disclosures. (i) A request for notification and access (or request for an accounting of disclosures) shall be made in writing and shall be signed by the person making the request.
Form of request for notification and access or request for an accounting of disclosures.
(i) A request for notification and access (or request for an accounting of disclosures) shall be made in writing and shall be signed by the person making the request.
(ii) Such request shall be clearly marked, “Request for notification and access,” or “Request for accounting of disclosures.”
(iii) Such a request shall contain a statement that it is being made under the provisions of the Privacy Act.
(iv) Such request shall contain the name and address of the individual making the request. In addition, if a particular system employs an individual's social security number as an essential means of accessing the system, the request must include the individual's Social Security number. In the case of a record maintained in the name of two or more individuals (e.g., husband and wife), the request shall contain the names, addresses, and Social Security numbers (if necessary) of both individuals.
(v) Such request shall specify the name and location of the particular system of records (as set forth in the Notice of Systems) for which the individual is seeking notification and access (or an accounting of disclosures), and the title and business address of the official designated in the access section for the particular system (as set forth in the Notice of Systems). In the case of two or more systems of records which are under the control of the same designated official at the same systems location, a single request may be made for such systems. In the case of two or more systems of records which are not in the control of the same designated official at the same systems location, a separate request must be made for each such system.
(vi) If an individual wishes to limit a request for notification and access to a particular record or records, the request should identify the particular record. In the absence of a statement to the contrary, a request for notification and access for a particular system of records shall be considered to be limited to records which are currently maintained by the designated official at the systems location specified in the request.
(vii) If such request is seeking notification and access to material maintained in a system of records which is exempt from disclosure and access under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the individual making the request must establish that such individual has been denied a right, privilege, or benefit that such individual would otherwise be entitled to under Federal law as a result of the maintenance of such material.
(viii) Such request shall state whether the individual wishes to inspect the record in person, or desires to have a copy made and furnished without first inspecting it. If the individual desires to have a copy made, the request must include an agreement to pay the fee for duplication ultimately determined to be due. If the individual does not wish to inspect a record, but merely wishes to be notified whether a particular system or records contains a record pertaining to such individual, the request should so state.
(c) Time and place for making a request. A request for notification and access to records under the Privacy Act (or a request for accounting of disclosures) shall be addressed to or delivered in person to the office of the official designated in the access section for the particular system of records for which the individual is seeking notification and access (or an accounting of disclosures). The title and office address of such official is set forth for each system of records in the Notice of Systems of Records. A request delivered to an office in person must be delivered during the regular office hours of that office.
Time and place for making a request.
A request for notification and access to records under the Privacy Act (or a request for accounting of disclosures) shall be addressed to or delivered in person to the office of the official designated in the access section for the particular system of records for which the individual is seeking notification and access (or an accounting of disclosures). The title and office address of such official is set forth for each system of records in the Notice of Systems of Records. A request delivered to an office in person must be delivered during the regular office hours of that office.
(d) Sample request for notification and access to records. The following are sample requests for notification and access to records which will satisfy the requirements of this paragraph:
Sample request for notification and access to records.
The following are sample requests for notification and access to records which will satisfy the requirements of this paragraph:
Request for Notification and Access to Records by Mail
I, John Doe, of 100 Main Street, Boston, MA 02108 (soc. sec. num. 000-00-0000) request under the Privacy Act of 1974 that the following system of records be examined and that I be furnished with a copy of any record (or a specified record) contained therein pertaining to me. I agree that I will pay the fees ultimately determined to be due for duplication of such record. I have enclosed the necessary information.
System Name:
System Location:
Designated Official:
John Doe
Request for Notification and Access to Records in Person
I, John Doe, of 100 Main Street, Boston, MA 02108 (soc. sec. num. 000-00-0000) request under the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, that the following system of records be examined and that I be granted access in person to inspect any record (or a specified record) contained therein pertaining to me. I have enclosed the necessary identification.
System Name:
System Location:
Designated Official:
John Doe
(e) Processing a request for notification and access to records or a request for an accounting of disclosures. (i) If a request for notification and access (or request for an accounting of disclosures) omits any information which is essential to processing the request, the request will not be acted upon and the individual making the request will be promptly advised of the additional information which must be submitted before the request can be processed.
Processing a request for notification and access to records or a request for an accounting of disclosures.
(i) If a request for notification and access (or request for an accounting of disclosures) omits any information which is essential to processing the request, the request will not be acted upon and the individual making the request will be promptly advised of the additional information which must be submitted before the request can be processed.
(ii) Within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request for notification and access (or a request for an accounting of disclosures), to a particular system of records by the designated official for such system, a determination will be made as to whether the particular system of records is exempt from the notification and access provisions of the Privacy Act, and if such system is not exempt, whether it does or does not contain a record pertaining to the individual making the request. If a determination cannot be made within 30 days, the individual will be notified of the delay, the reasons therefor, and the approximate time required to make a determination. If it is determined by the designated official that the particular system of records is exempt from the notification and access provisions of the Privacy Act, the individual making the request will be notified of the provisions of the Privacy Act under which the exemption is claimed. On the other hand, if it is determined by the designated official that the particular system of records is not exempted from the notification and access provisions of the Privacy Act and that such system contains a record pertaining to the individual making the request, the individual will be notified of the time and place where inspection may be made. If an individual has not requested that access be granted to inspect the record in person, but merely requests that a copy of the record be furnished, or if it is determined by the designated official that the granting of access to inspect a record in person is not feasible in a particular case, then the designated official will furnish a copy of the record with the notification, or if a copy cannot be furnished at such time, a statement indicating the approximate time such copy will be furnished. If the request is for an accounting of disclosures from a system of records which is not exempt from the accounting of disclosure provisions of the Privacy Act, the individual will be furnished with an accounting of such disclosures.
(f) Granting of access. Normally, an individual will be granted access to inspect a record in person within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt for a request for notification and access by the designated official. If access cannot be granted within 30 days, the notification will state the reasons for the delay and the approximate time such access will be granted. An individual wishing to inspect a record may be accompanied by another person of his choosing. Both the individual seeking access and the individual accompanying him may be required to sign a form supplied by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) indicating that the Service is authorized to disclose or discuss the contents of the record in the presence of both individuals. See 26 CFR 601.502 for requirements to be met by taxpayer's representatives in order to discuss the contents of any tax records.
Granting of access.
Normally, an individual will be granted access to inspect a record in person within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt for a request for notification and access by the designated official. If access cannot be granted within 30 days, the notification will state the reasons for the delay and the approximate time such access will be granted. An individual wishing to inspect a record may be accompanied by another person of his choosing. Both the individual seeking access and the individual accompanying him may be required to sign a form supplied by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) indicating that the Service is authorized to disclose or discuss the contents of the record in the presence of both individuals. See 26 CFR 601.502 for requirements to be met by taxpayer's representatives in order to discuss the contents of any tax records.
(g) Medical records. When access is requested to medical records (including psychological records), the designated official may determine that release of such records will be made only to a health care professional designated by the individual to have access to such records.
Medical records.
When access is requested to medical records (including psychological records), the designated official may determine that release of such records will be made only to a health care professional designated by the individual to have access to such records.
(h) Verification of identity. An individual seeking notification or access to records, or seeking to amend a record, must satisfy one of the following identification requirements before action will be taken by the IRS on any such request:
Verification of identity.
An individual seeking notification or access to records, or seeking to amend a record, must satisfy one of the following identification requirements before action will be taken by the IRS on any such request:
(i) An individual seeking notification or access to records in person, or seeking to amend a record in person, may establish identity by the presentation of a single document bearing a photograph (such as a passport or identification badge) or by the presentation of two items of identification which do not bear a photograph but do bear both a name and signature (such as a driver's license or credit card).
(ii) An individual seeking notification or access to records by mail, or seeking to amend a record by mail, may establish identity by a signature, address, and one other identifier such as a photocopy of a driver's license or other document bearing the individual's signature.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs 3(h)(i) and (ii) of this appendix, an individual seeking notification or access to records by mail or in person, or seeking to amend a record by mail or in person, who so desires, may establish identity by providing a notarized statement, swearing or affirming to such individual's identity and to the fact that the individual understands the penalties provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3) for requesting or obtaining access to records under false pretenses.
(iv) Notwithstanding paragraph 3(h)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this appendix, a designated official may require additional proof of an individual's identity before action will be taken on any request if such official determines that it is necessary to protect unauthorized disclosure of information in a particular case. In addition, a parent of any minor or a legal guardian of any individual will be required to provide adequate proof of legal relationship before such person may act on behalf of such minor or such individual.
(i) Fees. The fee for costs required of the IRS in copying records pursuant to this paragraph is $0.15 per page. However, no fee will be charged if the aggregate costs required of the IRS in copying records is less than $3.00. If an individual who has requested access to inspect a record in person is denied such access by the designated official because it would not be feasible in a particular case, copies of such record will be furnished to the individual without payment of the fees otherwise required under this paragraph. If the IRS estimates that the total fees for costs incurred in complying with a request for copies of records will amount to $50 or more, the individual making the request may be required to enter into a contract for the payment of the actual fees with respect to the request before the Service will furnish the copies requested. Payment of fees for copies of records should be made by check or money order payable to the Internal Revenue Service.
Fees.
The fee for costs required of the IRS in copying records pursuant to this paragraph is $0.15 per page. However, no fee will be charged if the aggregate costs required of the IRS in copying records is less than $3.00. If an individual who has requested access to inspect a record in person is denied such access by the designated official because it would not be feasible in a particular case, copies of such record will be furnished to the individual without payment of the fees otherwise required under this paragraph. If the IRS estimates that the total fees for costs incurred in complying with a request for copies of records will amount to $50 or more, the individual making the request may be required to enter into a contract for the payment of the actual fees with respect to the request before the Service will furnish the copies requested. Payment of fees for copies of records should be made by check or money order payable to the Internal Revenue Service.
4. Procedures for amendment of records—(a) In general. This paragraph sets forth the procedures for reviewing a request from an individual concerning the amendment of any record or information pertaining to such individual, for making a determination on the request, for making an appeal within the IRS of an initial adverse determination, and for judicial review of a final determination.
Procedures for amendment of records
—(a)
In general.
This paragraph sets forth the procedures for reviewing a request from an individual concerning the amendment of any record or information pertaining to such individual, for making a determination on the request, for making an appeal within the IRS of an initial adverse determination, and for judicial review of a final determination.
(b) Amendment of record. Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2), an individual who has been granted access to a record pertaining to such individual may, after inspecting the record, request that the record be amended to make any correction of any portion thereof which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. An individual may seek to amend a record in accordance with the rules provided in paragraph (2) of this appendix.
Amendment of record.
Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2), an individual who has been granted access to a record pertaining to such individual may, after inspecting the record, request that the record be amended to make any correction of any portion thereof which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. An individual may seek to amend a record in accordance with the rules provided in paragraph (2) of this appendix.
(c) Form of request for amendment of record. (i) A request for amendment of a record shall be in writing and shall be signed by the individual making the request.
Form of request for amendment of record.
(i) A request for amendment of a record shall be in writing and shall be signed by the individual making the request.
(ii) Such request shall be clearly marked “Request for amendment of record.”
(iii) Such request shall contain a statement that it is being made under the provisions of the Privacy Act.
(iv) Such request shall contain the name and address of the individual making the request. In addition, if a particular system employs an individual's social security number as an essential means of accessing the system, the request must include the individual's Social Security number. In the case of a record maintained in the name of two or more individuals (e.g., husband and wife), the request shall contain the names, addresses, and Social Security numbers (if necessary) of both individuals.
(v) Such request shall specify the name and location of the system of records (as set forth in the Notice of Systems) in which such record is maintained, and the title and business address of the official designated in the access section for such system (as set forth in the Notice of Systems).
(vi) Such request shall specify the particular record in the system which the individual is seeking to amend.
(vii) Such request shall clearly state the specific changes which the individual wishes to make in the record and a concise explanation of the reasons for the changes. If the individual wishes to correct or add any information, the request shall contain specific language making the desired correction or addition.
(d) Time and place for making request. A request to amend a record under the Privacy Act shall be addressed to or delivered in person to the office of the official designated in the access section for the particular system of records. The title and office address of such official is set forth for each system of records in the Notice of Systems of Records. A request delivered to an office in person must be delivered during the regular office hours of that office.
Time and place for making request.
A request to amend a record under the Privacy Act shall be addressed to or delivered in person to the office of the official designated in the access section for the particular system of records. The title and office address of such official is set forth for each system of records in the Notice of Systems of Records. A request delivered to an office in person must be delivered during the regular office hours of that office.
(e) Processing a request for amendment of a record. (i) Within 10 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request to amend a record by the designated official, the individual will be sent a written acknowledgement that will state that the request has been received, that action is being taken thereon, and that the individual will be notified within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of the request whether the requested amendments will or will not be made. If a request for amendment of a record omits any information which is essential to processing the request, the request will not be acted upon and the individual making the request will be promptly advised on the additional information which must be submitted before the request can be processed.
Processing a request for amendment of a record.
(i) Within 10 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request to amend a record by the designated official, the individual will be sent a written acknowledgement that will state that the request has been received, that action is being taken thereon, and that the individual will be notified within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of the request whether the requested amendments will or will not be made. If a request for amendment of a record omits any information which is essential to processing the request, the request will not be acted upon and the individual making the request will be promptly advised on the additional information which must be submitted before the request can be processed.
(ii) Within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request to amend a record by the designated official, a determination will be made as to whether to grant the request in whole or part. The individual will then be notified in writing of the determination. If a determination cannot be made within 30 days, the individual will be notified in writing within such time of the reasons for the delay and the approximate time required to make a determination. If it is determined by the designated official that the request will be granted, the requested changes will be made in the record and the individual will be notified of the changes. In addition, to the extent an accounting was maintained, all prior recipients of such record will be notified of the changes. Upon request, an individual will be furnished with a copy of the record, as amended, subject to the payment of the appropriate fees. On the other hand, if it is determined by the designated official that the request, or any portion thereof, will not be granted, the individual will be notified in writing of the adverse determination. The notification of an adverse determination will set forth the reasons for refusal to amend the record. In addition, the notification will contain a statement informing the individual of such individual's right to request an independent review of the adverse determination by a reviewing officer in the national office of the IRS and the procedures for requesting such a review.
(f) Administrative review of adverse determination. Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(3), an individual who disagrees with the refusal of the agency to amend a record may, within 35 days of being notified of the adverse determination, request an independent review of such refusal by a reviewing officer in the national office of the IRS. The reviewing officer for the IRS is the Commission of Internal Revenue, the Deputy Commissioner, or an Assistant Commissioner. In the case of an adverse determination relating to a system of records maintained by the Office of General Counsel for the IRS, the reviewing officer is the Chief Counsel or his delegate. An individual seeking a review of an adverse determination shall make a request for review in accordance with the rules provided in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this appendix.
Administrative review of adverse determination.
Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(3), an individual who disagrees with the refusal of the agency to amend a record may, within 35 days of being notified of the adverse determination, request an independent review of such refusal by a reviewing officer in the national office of the IRS. The reviewing officer for the IRS is the Commission of Internal Revenue, the Deputy Commissioner, or an Assistant Commissioner. In the case of an adverse determination relating to a system of records maintained by the Office of General Counsel for the IRS, the reviewing officer is the Chief Counsel or his delegate. An individual seeking a review of an adverse determination shall make a request for review in accordance with the rules provided in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this appendix.
(g) Form of request for review. (i) A request for review of an adverse determination shall be in writing and shall be signed by the individual making the request.
Form of request for review.
(i) A request for review of an adverse determination shall be in writing and shall be signed by the individual making the request.
(ii) Such request shall be clearly marked “Request for review of adverse determination”.
(iii) Such request shall contain a statement that it is being made under the provisions of the Privacy Act.
(iv) Such request shall contain the name and address of the individual making the request. In addition, if a particular system employs an individual's Social Security number as an essential means of accessing the system, the request must include the individual's Social Security number. In the case of a record maintained in the name of two or more individuals (e.g., husband and wife), the request shall contain the names, addresses, and Social Security numbers (if necessary) of both individuals.
(v) Such request shall specify the particular record which the individual is seeking to amend, the name and location of the system of records (as set forth in the Notice of Systems) in which such record is maintained, and the title and business address of the designated official for such system (as set forth in the Notice of Systems).
(vi) Such request shall include the date of the initial request for amendment of the record, and the date of the letter notifying the individual of the initial adverse determination with respect to such request.
(vii) Such request shall clearly state the specific changes which the individual wishes to make in the record and a concise explanation of the reasons for the changes. If the individual wishes to correct or add any information, the request shall contain specific language making the desired correction or addition.
(h) Time and place for making the request. A request for review of an adverse determination under the Privacy Act shall be addressed to or delivered in person to the Director, Office of Disclosure, Attention: OP:EX:D Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20224. A request for review of an adverse determination will be promptly referred by the Director, Office of Disclosure to the appropriate reviewing officer for his review and final determination.
Time and place for making the request.
A request for review of an adverse determination under the Privacy Act shall be addressed to or delivered in person to the Director, Office of Disclosure, Attention: OP:EX:D Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20224. A request for review of an adverse determination will be promptly referred by the Director, Office of Disclosure to the appropriate reviewing officer for his review and final determination.
(i) Processing a request for review of adverse determination. Within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request for review of an adverse determination by the appropriate reviewing officer, the reviewing officer will review the initial adverse determination, make a final determination whether to grant the request to amend the record in whole or in part, and notify the individual in writing of the final determination. If a final determination cannot be made within 30 days, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may extend such 30-day period. The individual will be notified in writing within the 30-day period of the cause for the delay and the approximate time required to make a final determination. If it is determined by the reviewing officer that the request to amend the record will be granted, the reviewing officer will cause the requested changes to be made and the individual will be so notified. Upon request, an individual will be furnished with a copy of the record as amended subject to the payment of appropriate fees. On the other hand, if it is determined by the reviewing officer that the request to amend the record, or any portion thereof, will not be granted, the individual will be notified in writing of the final adverse determination. The notification of a final adverse determination will set forth the reasons for the refusal of the reviewing officer to amend the record. The notification shall include a statement informing the individual of the right to submit a concise statement for insertion in the record setting forth the reasons for the disagreement with the refusal of the reviewing officer to amend the record. In addition, the notification will contain a statement informing the individual of the right to seek judicial review by a United States district court of a final adverse determination.
Processing a request for review of adverse determination.
Within 30 days (not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of a request for review of an adverse determination by the appropriate reviewing officer, the reviewing officer will review the initial adverse determination, make a final determination whether to grant the request to amend the record in whole or in part, and notify the individual in writing of the final determination. If a final determination cannot be made within 30 days, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may extend such 30-day period. The individual will be notified in writing within the 30-day period of the cause for the delay and the approximate time required to make a final determination. If it is determined by the reviewing officer that the request to amend the record will be granted, the reviewing officer will cause the requested changes to be made and the individual will be so notified. Upon request, an individual will be furnished with a copy of the record as amended subject to the payment of appropriate fees. On the other hand, if it is determined by the reviewing officer that the request to amend the record, or any portion thereof, will not be granted, the individual will be notified in writing of the final adverse determination. The notification of a final adverse determination will set forth the reasons for the refusal of the reviewing officer to amend the record. The notification shall include a statement informing the individual of the right to submit a concise statement for insertion in the record setting forth the reasons for the disagreement with the refusal of the reviewing officer to amend the record. In addition, the notification will contain a statement informing the individual of the right to seek judicial review by a United States district court of a final adverse determination.
(j) Statement of disagreement. Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(3), an individual who disagrees with a final adverse determination not to amend a record subject to amendment under the Privacy Act may submit a concise statement for insertion in the record setting forth the reasons for disagreement with the refusal of the reviewing officer to amend the record. A statement of disagreement should be addressed to or delivered in person to the Director, Office of Disclosure, Attention: OP:EX:D, Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20224. The Director, Office of Disclosure will forward the statement of disagreement to the appropriate designated official who will cause the statement to be inserted in the individual's record. Any such statement will be available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed, and the prior recipients of the record will be provided with a copy of the statement of disagreement, to the extent an accounting of disclosures was maintained.
Statement of disagreement.
Under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(3), an individual who disagrees with a final adverse determination not to amend a record subject to amendment under the Privacy Act may submit a concise statement for insertion in the record setting forth the reasons for disagreement with the refusal of the reviewing officer to amend the record. A statement of disagreement should be addressed to or delivered in person to the Director, Office of Disclosure, Attention: OP:EX:D, Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20224. The Director, Office of Disclosure will forward the statement of disagreement to the appropriate designated official who will cause the statement to be inserted in the individual's record. Any such statement will be available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed, and the prior recipients of the record will be provided with a copy of the statement of disagreement, to the extent an accounting of disclosures was maintained.
(k) Judicial review. If, after a review and final determination on a request to amend a record by the appropriate reviewing officer, the individual is notified that the request will not be granted, or if, after the expiration of 30 days (not including Sundays, Saturdays, and legal public holidays) from the receipt of such request by the Director, Disclosure Operations Division, action is not taken thereon in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (i) of this section, an individual may commence an action within the time prescribed by law in a U.S. District Court pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1). The statute authorizes an action only against the agency. With respect to records maintained by the IRS, the agency is the Internal Revenue Service, not an officer or employee thereof. Service of process in such an action shall be in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. App.) applicable to actions against an agency of the United States. Where provided in such Rules, delivery of process upon the IRS must be directed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Attention: CC:GLS, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20224. The district court will determine the matter de novo.
Judicial review.
If, after a review and final determination on a request to amend a record by the appropriate reviewing officer, the individual is notified that the request will not be granted, or if, after the expiration of 30 days (not including Sundays, Saturdays, and legal public holidays) from the receipt of such request by the Director, Disclosure Operations Division, action is not taken thereon in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (i) of this section, an individual may commence an action within the time prescribed by law in a U.S. District Court pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1). The statute authorizes an action only against the agency. With respect to records maintained by the IRS, the agency is the Internal Revenue Service, not an officer or employee thereof. Service of process in such an action shall be in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. App.) applicable to actions against an agency of the United States. Where provided in such Rules, delivery of process upon the IRS must be directed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Attention: CC:GLS, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20224. The district court will determine the matter de novo.
5. Records transferred to Federal Records Centers. Records transferred to the Administrator of General Services for storage in a Federal Records Center are not used by the Internal Revenue Service in making any determination about any individual while stored at such location and therefore are not subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5) during such time.
Records transferred to Federal Records Centers.
Records transferred to the Administrator of General Services for storage in a Federal Records Center are not used by the Internal Revenue Service in making any determination about any individual while stored at such location and therefore are not subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5) during such time.

Appendix C to Subpart C of Part 1—Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3), (4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances”.
In general.
This appendix applies to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3), (4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances”.
2. Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures. Initial determination under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, will be made by the Director, Regulations and Rulings Division, or the delegate of such officer. Requests may be mailed or delivered in person to: Privacy Act Request, Director, Regulations and Rulings Division, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005. Requests may also be faxed to 202-453-2331.
Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures.
Initial determination under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, will be made by the Director, Regulations and Rulings Division, or the delegate of such officer. Requests may be mailed or delivered in person to: Privacy Act Request, Director, Regulations and Rulings Division, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005. Requests may also be faxed to 202-453-2331.
3. Requests for amendment of record. Initial determinations under § 1.27(a) through (d) with respect to requests to amend records maintained by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau will be made by the Director, Regulations and Rulings Division. Requests for amendment of records may be mailed or delivered in person to: Privacy Act Request, Director, Regulations and Rulings Division, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005. Requests may also be faxed to 202-453-2331. The Bureau will process a faxed request when the request meets the identity verification requirements outlined in paragraph 4(a) of this appendix.
Requests for amendment of record.
Initial determinations under § 1.27(a) through (d) with respect to requests to amend records maintained by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau will be made by the Director, Regulations and Rulings Division. Requests for amendment of records may be mailed or delivered in person to: Privacy Act Request, Director, Regulations and Rulings Division, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005. Requests may also be faxed to 202-453-2331. The Bureau will process a faxed request when the request meets the identity verification requirements outlined in paragraph 4(a) of this appendix.
4. Verification of identity. (a) In addition to the requirements specified in § 1.26(d), each request for notification, access or amendment of records made by mail or fax shall contain the requesting individual's date and place of birth and a statement signed by the requester asserting his or her identity and stipulating that the requester understands that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretenses is a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine of up to $5,000 provided, that the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau may require a signed notarized statement verifying the identity of the requester.
Verification of identity.
(a) In addition to the requirements specified in § 1.26(d), each request for notification, access or amendment of records made by mail or fax shall contain the requesting individual's date and place of birth and a statement signed by the requester asserting his or her identity and stipulating that the requester understands that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretenses is a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine of up to $5,000 provided, that the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau may require a signed notarized statement verifying the identity of the requester.
(b) Individuals making requests in person will be required to exhibit at least two acceptable identifying documents such as employee identification cards, driver's license, medical cards, or other documents sufficient to verify the identity of the requester.
(c) The parent or guardian of a minor or a person judicially determined to be incompetent, shall in addition to establishing the identity of the minor or other person he represents as required in paragraphs 4(a) and (b) of this appendix, establish his own parentage or guardianship by furnishing a copy of a birth certificate showing parentage (or other satisfactory documentation) or a court order establishing the guardianship.
5. Request for physical inspection of records. Upon determining that a request for the physical inspection of records is to be granted, the requester shall be notified in writing of the determination, and when and where the records may be inspected. The inspection of records will be made at the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau Field Office or other facility located nearest to the residence of the individual making the request. Such inspection shall be conducted during the regular business hours of the field office or other facility where the disclosure is made. A person of the requester's own choosing may accompany the requester provided the requester furnishes a written statement authorizing the disclosure of the requester's record in the accompanying person's presence. The record inspection will be made in the presence of a representative of the Bureau. Following the inspection of the record, the individual will acknowledge in writing the fact that he or she had an opportunity to inspect the requested record.
Request for physical inspection of records.
Upon determining that a request for the physical inspection of records is to be granted, the requester shall be notified in writing of the determination, and when and where the records may be inspected. The inspection of records will be made at the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau Field Office or other facility located nearest to the residence of the individual making the request. Such inspection shall be conducted during the regular business hours of the field office or other facility where the disclosure is made. A person of the requester's own choosing may accompany the requester provided the requester furnishes a written statement authorizing the disclosure of the requester's record in the accompanying person's presence. The record inspection will be made in the presence of a representative of the Bureau. Following the inspection of the record, the individual will acknowledge in writing the fact that he or she had an opportunity to inspect the requested record.
6. Requests for copies of records without prior physical inspection. Upon determining that an individual's request for copies of his or her records without prior physical inspection is to be granted, the requester shall be notified in writing of the determination, and the location and time for his or her receipt of the requested copies. The copies will be made available at the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau field office or other facility located nearest to the residence of the individual making the request unless the individual requests that the documents be sent by mail. Copies shall be received by the requester during the regular business hours of the field office or other facility where the disclosure is made. Transfer of the copies to the individual shall be conditioned upon payment of copying costs and his presentation of at least two acceptable identifying documents such as employee identification cards, driver's license, medical cards, or other documents sufficient to verify the identity of the requester. Following the receipt of the copies in person, the individual will acknowledge receipt in writing.
Requests for copies of records without prior physical inspection.
Upon determining that an individual's request for copies of his or her records without prior physical inspection is to be granted, the requester shall be notified in writing of the determination, and the location and time for his or her receipt of the requested copies. The copies will be made available at the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau field office or other facility located nearest to the residence of the individual making the request unless the individual requests that the documents be sent by mail. Copies shall be received by the requester during the regular business hours of the field office or other facility where the disclosure is made. Transfer of the copies to the individual shall be conditioned upon payment of copying costs and his presentation of at least two acceptable identifying documents such as employee identification cards, driver's license, medical cards, or other documents sufficient to verify the identity of the requester. Following the receipt of the copies in person, the individual will acknowledge receipt in writing.
7. Administrative appeal of initial determination refusing to amend record. Appellate determinations under § 1.27(e) with respect to records of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, including extensions of time on appeal, will be made by the Administrator or the delegate of such officer. Appeals should be addressed to, or delivered in person to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005.
Administrative appeal of initial determination refusing to amend record.
Appellate determinations under § 1.27(e) with respect to records of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, including extensions of time on appeal, will be made by the Administrator or the delegate of such officer. Appeals should be addressed to, or delivered in person to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005.
8. Statements of disagreement. “Statements of Disagreement” as described in § 1.27(e)(4) shall be filed with the official signing the notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
Statements of disagreement.
“Statements of Disagreement” as described in § 1.27(e)(4) shall be filed with the official signing the notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
9. Service of process. Service of process will be received by the Administrator of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005, Attention: Chief Counsel.
Service of process.
Service of process will be received by the Administrator of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005, Attention: Chief Counsel.
10. Annual notice of systems of records. The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for each pertinent system.
Annual notice of systems of records.
The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for each pertinent system.

Appendix D to Subpart C of Part 1—Bureau of Engraving and Printing

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records including identification requirements, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.”
In general.
This appendix applies to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records including identification requirements, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.”
2. Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures. Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested, or the delegate of such official. Requests for access to records contained within a particular system of records should be submitted to the address indicated for that system in the access section of the notices published by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.” Requests for information and specific guidance should be addressed to: Privacy Act Request, Disclosure Officer (Executive Assistant to the Director), Room 104-18M, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Washington, DC 20228.
Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures.
Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested, or the delegate of such official. Requests for access to records contained within a particular system of records should be submitted to the address indicated for that system in the access section of the notices published by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.” Requests for information and specific guidance should be addressed to: Privacy Act Request, Disclosure Officer (Executive Assistant to the Director), Room 104-18M, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Washington, DC 20228.
3. Requests for amendment of records. Initial determination under § 1.27(a) through (d), whether to grant request to amend records will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of such official. Requests for amendment should be addressed as indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for amendment should be addressed to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, Disclosure Officer (Executive Assistant to the Director), Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Room 104-18M, Washington, DC 20228.
Requests for amendment of records.
Initial determination under § 1.27(a) through (d), whether to grant request to amend records will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of such official. Requests for amendment should be addressed as indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for amendment should be addressed to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, Disclosure Officer (Executive Assistant to the Director), Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Room 104-18M, Washington, DC 20228.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records. Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing will be made by the Director of the Bureau or the delegate of such officer. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to, or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, Disclosure Officer (Executive Assistant to the Director), Room 104-18M, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Washington, DC 20228.
Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records.
Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing will be made by the Director of the Bureau or the delegate of such officer. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to, or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, Disclosure Officer (Executive Assistant to the Director), Room 104-18M, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Washington, DC 20228.
5. Statements of disagreement. “Statements of Disagreement” under § 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
Statements of disagreement.
“Statements of Disagreement” under § 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
6. Service of process. Service of process will be received by the Chief Counsel of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and shall be delivered to the following location: Chief Counsel, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Room 109-M, 14th and C Streets SW, Washington, DC 20228.
Service of process.
Service of process will be received by the Chief Counsel of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and shall be delivered to the following location: Chief Counsel, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Room 109-M, 14th and C Streets SW, Washington, DC 20228.
7. Verification of identity. An individual seeking notification or access to records, or seeking to amend a record, or seeking an accounting of disclosures, must satisfy one of the following identification requirements before action will be taken by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing on any such request:
Verification of identity.
An individual seeking notification or access to records, or seeking to amend a record, or seeking an accounting of disclosures, must satisfy one of the following identification requirements before action will be taken by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing on any such request:
(i) An individual appearing in person may establish identity by the presentation of a single document bearing a photograph (such as a passport or identification badge) or by the presentation of two items of identification which do not bear a photograph but do bear both a name and signature (such as a credit card).
(ii) An individual may establish identity through the mail by a signature, address, and one other identifier such as a photocopy of a driver's license or other document bearing the individual's signature.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs 7(i) and (ii) of this appendix, an individual who so desires, may establish identity by providing a notarized statement, swearing or affirming to such individual's identity and to the fact that the individual understands the penalties provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3) for requesting or obtaining access to records under false pretenses.
(iv) Notwithstanding paragraph 7(i), (ii), or (iii) of this appendix, the Executive Assistant or other designated official may require additional proof of an individual's identity before action will be taken on any request if such official determines that it is necessary to protect against unauthorized disclosure of information in a particular case. In addition, a parent of any minor or a legal guardian of any individual will be required to provide adequate proof of legal relationship before such person may act on behalf of such minor or such individual.
8. Annual notice of systems of records. The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 522a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.
Annual notice of systems of records.
The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 522a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.

Appendix E to Subpart C of Part 1—Bureau of the Fiscal Service

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances”.
In general.
This appendix applies to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances”.
2. Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures. Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested or an official designated by this official. This is indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published annually by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records may be mailed to the system manager identified in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service system of records notice (SORN) which is published in the Federal Register. See the applicable Bureau of the Fiscal Service system of records notice (SORN) for details.
Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures.
Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested or an official designated by this official. This is indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published annually by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records may be mailed to the system manager identified in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service system of records notice (SORN) which is published in the
Federal Register.
See
the applicable Bureau of the Fiscal Service system of records notice (SORN) for details.
3. Requests for amendment of records. Initial determination under § 1.27(a) through (d), whether to grant requests to amend records will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of such official. Requests for amendment should be addressed as indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for amendment should be addressed to the system manager identified in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service SORN which is published in the Federal Register.
Requests for amendment of records.
Initial determination under § 1.27(a) through (d), whether to grant requests to amend records will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of such official. Requests for amendment should be addressed as indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for amendment should be addressed to the system manager identified in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service SORN which is published in the
Federal Register
.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records. Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will be made by the Commissioner or the delegate of such official. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to the system manager identified in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service SORN which is published in the Federal Register. See the applicable Bureau of the Fiscal Service SORN for details.
Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records.
Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will be made by the Commissioner or the delegate of such official. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to the system manager identified in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service SORN which is published in the
Federal Register
. See
the applicable Bureau of the Fiscal Service SORN for details.
5. Statements of disagreement. “Statements of Disagreement” under § 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
Statements of disagreement.
“Statements of Disagreement” under § 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
6. Service of process. Service of process will be received by the Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: Office of the Chief Counsel, Bureau of the Fiscal Service Attn: Chief Counsel, 401 14th St. SW, Washington, DC 20227.
Service of process.
Service of process will be received by the Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: Office of the Chief Counsel, Bureau of the Fiscal Service Attn: Chief Counsel, 401 14th St. SW, Washington, DC 20227.
7. Annual notice of systems of records. The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.
Annual notice of systems of records.
The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.

Appendix F to Subpart C of Part 1—United States Mint

1. In general. This appendix applies to the United States Mint. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances”.
In general.
This appendix applies to the United States Mint. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances”.
2. Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures. Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the United States Mint will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested or an official designated by this official. This is indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published annually by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests should be directed to the Superintendent or Officer in charge of the facility in which the records are located or to the Chief, Administrative Programs Division. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records may be mailed or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Request, Chief, Administrative Programs Division, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures.
Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the United States Mint will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested or an official designated by this official. This is indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published annually by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests should be directed to the Superintendent or Officer in charge of the facility in which the records are located or to the Chief, Administrative Programs Division. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records may be mailed or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Request, Chief, Administrative Programs Division, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
3. Requests for amendment of records. Initial determination under § 1.27(a) through (d), whether to grant requests to amend records will be made by the head of the Mint installation having immediate custody of the records or the delegated official. Requests should be mailed or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts Officer, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 633 3rd Street, Washington, DC 20220.
Requests for amendment of records.
Initial determination under § 1.27(a) through (d), whether to grant requests to amend records will be made by the head of the Mint installation having immediate custody of the records or the delegated official. Requests should be mailed or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Amendment Request, Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts Officer, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 633 3rd Street, Washington, DC 20220.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records. Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27 including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the United States Mint will be made by the Director of the Mint or the delegate of the Director. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to, or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records.
Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27 including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the United States Mint will be made by the Director of the Mint or the delegate of the Director. Appeals made by mail should be addressed to, or delivered personally to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, United States Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
5. Statements of disagreement. “Statements of Disagreement” under § 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
Statements of disagreement.
“Statements of Disagreement” under § 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
6. Service of process. Service of process will be received by the Director of the Mint and shall be delivered to the following location: Director of the Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
Service of process.
Service of process will be received by the Director of the Mint and shall be delivered to the following location: Director of the Mint, Judiciary Square Building, 633 3rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20220.
7. Annual notice of systems of records. The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.
Annual notice of systems of records.
The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.

Appendix G to Subpart C of Part 1—Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances”.
In general.
This appendix applies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances”.
2. Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures. Initial determinations under § 1.26 whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested or the delegate of that official. This is indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published biennially by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records shall be mailed or delivered personally to: Disclosure Officer, Communications Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures.
Initial determinations under § 1.26 whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will be made by the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records requested or the delegate of that official. This is indicated in the appropriate system notice in “Privacy Act Issuances” published biennially by the Office of the Federal Register. Requests for information and specific guidance on where to send requests for records shall be mailed or delivered personally to: Disclosure Officer, Communications Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
3. Requests for amendment of records. Initial determinations under § 1.27(a) through (d) whether to grant requests to amend records will be made by the Comptroller's delegate or the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of that official. Requests for amendment shall be mailed or delivered personally to: Disclosure Officer, Communications Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Requests for amendment of records.
Initial determinations under § 1.27(a) through (d) whether to grant requests to amend records will be made by the Comptroller's delegate or the head of the organizational unit having immediate custody of the records or the delegate of that official. Requests for amendment shall be mailed or delivered personally to: Disclosure Officer, Communications Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
4. Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records. Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will be made by the Comptroller of the Currency or the Comptroller's delegate. Appeals shall be mailed or delivered personally to: Disclosure Officer, Communications Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records.
Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal, with respect to records of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will be made by the Comptroller of the Currency or the Comptroller's delegate. Appeals shall be mailed or delivered personally to: Disclosure Officer, Communications Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
5. Statements of disagreement. “Statements of Disagreement” under § 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the OCC's Director of Communications at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
Statements of disagreement.
“Statements of Disagreement” under § 1.27(e)(4)(i) shall be filed with the OCC's Director of Communications at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
6. Service of process. Service of process shall be delivered to the Chief Counsel or the Chief Counsel's delegate at the following location: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Service of process.
Service of process shall be delivered to the Chief Counsel or the Chief Counsel's delegate at the following location: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20219.
7. Annual notice of systems of records. The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.
Annual notice of systems of records.
The annual notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances”. Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.

Appendix H to Subpart C of Part 1—Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

1. In general. This appendix applies to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, and identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published biennially by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.”
In general.
This appendix applies to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). It sets forth specific notification and access procedures with respect to particular systems of records, and identifies the officers designated to make the initial determinations with respect to notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures of records. This appendix also sets forth the specific procedures for requesting amendment of records and identifies the officers designated to make the initial and appellate determinations with respect to requests for amendment of records. It identifies the officers designated to grant extensions of time on appeal, the officers with whom “Statements of Disagreement” may be filed, the officer designated to receive service of process and the addresses for delivery of requests, appeals, and service of process. In addition, it references the notice of systems of records and notices of the routine uses of the information in the system required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) and (11) and published biennially by the Office of the Federal Register in “Privacy Act Issuances.”
2. Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures. Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for FinCEN will be made by the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, FinCEN. Requests may be mailed to: Privacy Act Request, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
Requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures.
Initial determinations under § 1.26, whether to grant requests for notification and access to records and accountings of disclosures for FinCEN will be made by the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, FinCEN. Requests may be mailed to: Privacy Act Request, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
3. Requests for amendments of records. Initial determinations under § 1.27(a) through (d) whether to grant requests to amend records maintained by FinCEN will be made by the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, FinCEN. Requests may be mailed to: Privacy Act Request, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
Requests for amendments of records.
Initial determinations under § 1.27(a) through (d) whether to grant requests to amend records maintained by FinCEN will be made by the Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Officer, FinCEN. Requests may be mailed to: Privacy Act Request, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
4. Verification of identity. An individual seeking notification or access to records, or seeking to amend a record, or seeking an accounting of disclosures, must satisfy one of the following identification requirements before action will be taken by FinCEN on any such request:
Verification of identity.
An individual seeking notification or access to records, or seeking to amend a record, or seeking an accounting of disclosures, must satisfy one of the following identification requirements before action will be taken by FinCEN on any such request:
(i) An individual may establish identity through the mail by a signature, address, and one other identifier such as a photocopy of a driver's license or other official document bearing the individual's signature.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph 4(i) of this section, an individual may establish identity by providing a notarized statement, swearing or affirming to such individual's identity and to the fact that the individual understands the penalties provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3) for requesting or obtaining access to records under false pretenses.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs 4(i) and (ii) of this appendix, the Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act Officer or other designated official may require additional proof of an individual's identity before action will be taken on any request, if such official determines that it is necessary to protect against unauthorized disclosure of information in a particular case. In addition, a parent of any minor or a legal guardian of any individual will be required to provide adequate proof of legal relationship before such person may act on behalf of such minor or such individual.
5. Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records. Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal with respect to the records of FinCEN will be made by the Director of FinCEN or the delegate of the Director. Appeals should be addressed to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
Administrative appeal of initial determinations refusing amendment of records.
Appellate determinations refusing amendment of records under § 1.27(e) including extensions of time on appeal with respect to the records of FinCEN will be made by the Director of FinCEN or the delegate of the Director. Appeals should be addressed to: Privacy Act Amendment Appeal, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
6. Statements of Disagreement. “Statements of Disagreement” as described in § 1.27(e)(4) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
Statements of Disagreement.
“Statements of Disagreement” as described in § 1.27(e)(4) shall be filed with the official signing the notification of refusal to amend at the address indicated in the letter of notification within 35 days of the date of such notification and should be limited to one page.
7. Service of Process. Service of process will be received by the Chief Counsel of FinCEN and shall be delivered to the following location: Office of Chief Counsel, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
Service of Process.
Service of process will be received by the Chief Counsel of FinCEN and shall be delivered to the following location: Office of Chief Counsel, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Post Office Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
8. Biennial notice of systems of records. The biennial notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances.” Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 and section 4 of this appendix are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.
Biennial notice of systems of records.
The biennial notice of systems of records is published by the Office of the Federal Register, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(f). The publication is entitled “Privacy Act Issuances.” Any specific requirements for access, including identification requirements, in addition to the requirements set forth in §§ 1.26 and 1.27 and section 4 of this appendix are indicated in the notice for the pertinent system.

PART 2—NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 321, E.O. 12958, 60 FR 19825, E.O. 13292, 68 FR 15315.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321, E.O. 12958, 60 FR 19825, E.O. 13292, 68 FR 15315.
[Source:72 FR 63104, Nov. 8, 2007, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
72 FR 63104, Nov. 8, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

§ 2.1   Processing of mandatory declassification review requests.

(a) Except as provided by section 3.4(b) of Executive Order 13292, Further Amendment to Executive Order 12958, as amended, Classified National Security Information, all information classified by the Department of the Treasury under these Orders or any predecessor Executive Order shall be subject to mandatory declassification review by the Department, if:
Classified National Security Information,
all information classified by the Department of the Treasury under these Orders or any predecessor Executive Order shall be subject to mandatory declassification review by the Department, if:
(1) The request for a mandatory declassification review describes the document or material containing the information with sufficient specificity to enable Treasury personnel to locate it with a reasonable amount of effort;
(2) The information is not exempt from search and review under sections 105C, 105D, or 701 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 431, 432 and 432a); and
(3) The information has not been reviewed for declassification within the past 2 years or the information is not the subject of pending litigation.
(b) Requests for classified records originated by the Department of the Treasury shall be directed to the Office of Security Programs, Attention: Assistant Director (Information Security), 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220. Upon receipt of each request for mandatory declassification review, pursuant to section 3.5 of Executive Order 13292, the following procedures will apply:
(1) The Office of Security Programs will acknowledge receipt of the request.
(2)(i) A mandatory declassification review request need not identify the requested information by date or title of the responsive records, but must be of sufficient specificity to allow Treasury personnel to locate records containing the information sought with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever a request does not reasonably describe the information sought, the requester will be notified by the Office of Security Programs that unless additional information is provided or the scope of the request is narrowed, no further action will be undertaken with respect to the request.
(ii) If Treasury has reviewed the information within the past 2 years and determined that all or part thereof remains classified, or the information is the subject of pending litigation, the requester shall be so informed and advised of the requester's appeal rights.
(3) The Office of Security Programs will determine the appropriate Treasury offices or bureaus to conduct the mandatory declassification review. The Office of Security Programs will also advise Treasury and/or bureau reviewing officials concerning the mandatory declassification review process. Classified information relating to intelligence activities (including special activities), intelligence sources or methods, or cryptology will also be coordinated with the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Intelligence and Analysis). As appropriate, the Office of Security Programs will refer requests to other Federal departments and agencies having a direct interest in the requested documents.
(4)(i) Treasury personnel undertaking a mandatory declassification review shall make reasonable efforts to determine if particular information may be declassified. Reviewing officials may rely on applicable exemption criteria under the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act, and any other applicable law that authorizes the withholding of information. Reviewing officials shall also identify the amount of search and review time required to process each request. Barring extenuating circumstances, mandatory declassification reviews for reasonably small volumes of records should be completed in a timely fashion. A final determination regarding large volumes of records should ordinarily be made within one year of Treasury's receipt of any mandatory declassification review request.
(ii) If the Director, Office of Security Programs determines that a Treasury office or bureau responsible for conducting a mandatory declassification review is not making reasonable efforts to review classified information subject to a mandatory declassification request, the Director may authorize Treasury-and/or bureau-originated information to be declassified in consultation with the Department's Senior Agency Official.
(iii) If information cannot be declassified in its entirety, reasonable efforts, consistent with applicable law, will be made to release those declassified portions of the requested information that constitute a coherent segment. Upon the denial or partial denial of a declassification request, the requester will be so informed by the Office of Security Programs and advised of the requester's appeal rights.
(5)(i) If Treasury receives a mandatory declassification review request for information in its possession that were originated by another Federal department or agency, the Office of Security Programs will forward the request to that department or agency for a declassification determination, together with a copy of the requested records, a recommendation concerning a declassification determination, and a request to be advised of that department's or agency's declassification determination. The Office of Security Programs may, after consultation with the originating department or agency, inform any requester of the referral unless such association is itself classified under Executive Order 13292 or prior orders.
(ii) Mandatory declassification review requests concerning classified information originated by a Treasury office or bureau that has been transferred to another Federal department or agency will be forwarded to the appropriate successor department or agency for a declassification determination.
(6) If another Federal department or agency forwards a mandatory declassification review request to Treasury for information in its custody that was classified by Treasury, the Office of Security Programs will:
(i) Advise the referring department or agency as to whether it may notify the requester of the referral; and
(ii) Respond to the Federal department, agency, or requester, as applicable, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(7)(i) Upon the denial, in whole or in part, of a request for the mandatory declassification review of information, the Office of Security Programs will so notify the requester in writing and will inform the requester of the right to appeal the classification determination within 60 calendar days of the receipt of the classification determination. The notice will also advise the requester of the name and address of the Treasury official who will be responsible for deciding an appeal (the Deciding Official). The Office of Security Programs will coordinate appeals with the appropriate Treasury offices and bureaus.
(ii) The Deciding Official should make a determination on an appeal within 30 working days following the receipt of the appeal, or within 60 working days following receipt if the Deciding Official determines that additional time is required to make a determination and so notifies the requester. The Deciding Official should notify the requester in writing of Treasury's determination on appeal and, if applicable, the reasons for any whole or partial denial of the appeal. The Office of Security Programs will also notify the requester of their right of a final appeal to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel, as appropriate, under 32 CFR 2001.33.
(8)(i) Treasury may charge fees for search, review, and duplicating costs in connection with a mandatory declassification review request.
(A) The fee for services of Treasury personnel involved in locating and/or reviewing records will be charged at the rate of a GS-11, Step 1 employee, in the Washington-Baltimore Federal pay area, in effect when the mandatory declassification review request is received by the Office of Security Programs for searches that take more than two hours or for review times that are greater than two hours. Fees may be waived, in writing, by a bureau head or the equivalent Treasury official at the Assistant Secretary level.
(B) There is no fee for duplicating the first 100 pages of fully or partially releasable documents. The cost of additional pages is 20 cents per page. No charges shall be levied for search and/or review time requiring less than 2 hours.
(ii) If it is estimated that the fees associated with a mandatory declassification review will exceed $100, the Office of Security Programs will notify the requester in writing of the estimated costs and shall obtain satisfactory written assurance of full payment or require the requester to make an advance payment of the entire estimated fee before proceeding to process the request. Treasury may request pre-payment where the fee is likely to exceed $500. After 60 calendar days without receiving the requester's written assurance of full payment or agreement to make pre-payment of estimated fees (or to amend the mandatory declassification review request in a manner as to result in fees acceptable to the requester), Treasury may administratively terminate the mandatory declassification review request. Failure of a requester to pay fees after billing will result in future requests not being honored. Nothing in this paragraph will preclude Treasury from taking any other lawful action to recover payment for costs incurred in processing a mandatory declassification review request.
(iii) Payment of fees shall be made by check or money order to the Treasurer of the United States. Fees charged by Treasury for mandatory declassification review are separate and distinct from any other fees that may be imposed by a Presidential Library, the National Archives and Records Administration, or another Federal department or agency.

§ 2.2   Access to classified information by historical researchers, former Treasury Presidential and Vice Presidential appointees, and former Presidents and Vice Presidents.

(a) Access to classified information may be granted only to individuals who have a need-to-know the information. This requirement may be waived, however, for individuals who:
(1) Are engaged in historical research projects;
(2) Previously occupied a position in the Treasury to which they were appointed by the President under 3 U.S.C. 105(a)(2)(A), or the Vice President under 3 U.S.C. 106(a)(1)(A); or
(3) Served as President or Vice President.
(b) Access to classified information may be granted to individuals described in paragraph (a) of this section upon:
(1) A written determination by Treasury's Senior Agency Official, under Section 5.4(d) of Executive Order 13292, that access is consistent with the interest of the national security; and
(2) Receipt of the individual's written agreement to safeguard classified information, including taking all appropriate steps to protect classified information from unauthorized disclosure or compromise. This written agreement must also include the individual's consent to have any and all notes (including those prepared or stored in electronic media, whether written or oral) reviewed by authorized Treasury personnel to ensure that no classified information is contained therein and, if so, that the classified information is not published.
(c)(i)(A) A historical researcher is not authorized to have access to foreign government information or information classified by another Federal department or agency.
(B) A former Treasury Presidential or Vice Presidential appointee is only authorized access to classified information that the former official originated, reviewed, signed or received while serving as such an appointee.
(C) A former President or Vice President is only authorized access to classified information that was prepared by Treasury while that individual was serving as President or Vice President.
(ii) Granting access to classified information pursuant to this section does not constitute the granting of a security clearance for access to classified information.
(d) Treasury personnel will coordinate access to classified information by individuals described in paragraph (a) of this section with the Director, Office of Security Programs, who will ensure that the written agreement described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is signed as a condition of being granted access to classified information.
(e) Any review of classified information by an individual described in paragraph (a) of this section shall take place in a location designated by the Director, Office of Security Programs. Such persons must be accompanied at all times by appropriately authorized Treasury personnel authorized to have access to the classified information being reviewed. All notes (including those prepared or stored in electronic media, whether written or oral) made by an individual described in paragraph (a) of this section shall remain in the custody of the Office of Security Programs pending a determination by appropriately cleared subject matter experts that no classified information is contained therein.
(f) An individual described in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to search, as are all packages or carrying cases prior to entering or leaving Treasury. Access to Treasury-originated classified information at another Federal department or agency, as may be authorized by the Director, Office of Security Programs shall be governed by security protocols in effect at the other Federal department or agency.
(g) Treasury personnel must perform a physical verification and an accounting of all classified information each time such information is viewed by an individual described in paragraph (a) of this section. Physical verification and an accounting of all classified information shall be made both prior to and after viewing. Any discrepancy must be immediately reported to the Director, Office of Security Programs.
(h) An individual described in paragraph (a) of this section may be charged reasonable fees for services rendered by Treasury in connection with the review of classified information under this section. To the extent such services involve searching, reviewing, and copying material, the provisions of § 2.1(b)(8) shall apply.

PART 3—CLAIMS REGULATIONS AND INDEMNIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY EMPLOYEES

[Authority:28 U.S.C. 2672; 28 CFR part 14; 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
28 U.S.C. 2672; 28 CFR part 14; 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:35 FR 6429, Apr. 22, 1970, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
35 FR 6429, Apr. 22, 1970, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Claims Under the Federal Tort Claims Act


§ 3.1   Scope of regulations.

(a) The regulations in this part shall apply to claims asserted under the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2672, accruing on or after January 18, 1967, for money damages against the United States for injury to or loss of property or personal injury or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the Department while acting within the scope of his office or employment, under circumstances where the United States if a private person, would be liable to the claimant for such damage, loss, injury, or death, in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred. The regulations in this subpart do not apply to any tort claims excluded from the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, under 28 U.S.C. 2680.
(b) Unless specifically modified by the regulations in this part, procedures and requirements for filing and handling claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act shall be in accordance with the regulations issued by the Department of Justice, at 28 CFR part 14, as amended.

§ 3.2   Filing of claims.

(a) When presented. A claim shall be deemed to have been presented upon the receipt from a claimant, his duly authorized agent or legal representative of an executed Standard Form 95 or other written notification of an incident, accompanied by a claim for money damages in a sum certain for injury to or loss of property, or personal injury, or death alleged to have occurred by reason of the incident.
When presented.
A claim shall be deemed to have been presented upon the receipt from a claimant, his duly authorized agent or legal representative of an executed Standard Form 95 or other written notification of an incident, accompanied by a claim for money damages in a sum certain for injury to or loss of property, or personal injury, or death alleged to have occurred by reason of the incident.
(b) Place of filing claim. Claims shall be submitted directly or through the local field headquarters to the head of the bureau or office of the Department out of whose activities the incident occurred, if known; or if not known, to the General Counsel, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220.
Place of filing claim.
Claims shall be submitted directly or through the local field headquarters to the head of the bureau or office of the Department out of whose activities the incident occurred, if known; or if not known, to the General Counsel, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Contents of claim. The evidence and information to be submitted with the claim shall conform to the requirements of 28 CFR 14.4.
Contents of claim.
The evidence and information to be submitted with the claim shall conform to the requirements of 28 CFR 14.4.

§ 3.3   Legal review.

Any claim that exceeds $500, involves personal injuries or automobile damage, or arises out of an incident that is likely to result in multiple claimants, shall be forwarded to the legal division of the bureau or office out of whose activities the claim arose. The claim, together with the reports of the employee and the investigation, shall be reviewed in the legal division which shall thereupon make a recommendation that the claim be approved, disapproved, or compromised, and shall advise on the need for referral of the claim to the Department of Justice. This recommendation and advice, together with the file, shall be forwarded to the head of the bureau or office or his designee.
[[35 FR 6429, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended at 48 FR 16253, Apr. 15, 1983]]

§ 3.4   Approval of claims not in excess of $25,000.

(a) Claims not exceeding $25,000 and not otherwise requiring consultation with the Department of Justice pursuant to 28 CFR 14.6(b) shall be approved, disapproved, or compromised by the head of the bureau or office or his designee, taking into consideration the recommendation of the legal division.

§ 3.5   Limitations on authority to approve claims.

(a) All proposed awards, compromises or settlements in excess of $25,000 require the prior written approval of the Attorney General.
(b) All claims which fall within the provisions of 28 CFR 14.6(b) require referral to and consultation with the Department of Justice.
(c) Any claim which falls within paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be reviewed by the General Counsel. If the claim, award, compromise, or settlement receives the approval of the General Counsel and the head of the bureau or office or his designee, a letter shall be prepared for the signature of the General Counsel transmitting to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, Department of Justice, the case for approval or consultation as required by 28 CFR 14.6. Such letter shall conform with the requirements set forth in 28 CFR 14.7.

§ 3.6   Final denial of a claim.

The final denial of an administrative claim shall conform with the requirements of 28 CFR 14.9 and shall be signed by the head of the bureau or office, or his designee.

§ 3.7   Action on approved claims.

(a) Any award, compromise, or settlement in an amount of $2,500 or less shall be processed for payment from the appropriations of the bureau or office out of whose activity the claim arose.
(b) Payment of an award, compromise, or settlement in excess of $2,500 and not more than $100,000 shall be obtained by the bureau or office by forwarding Standard Form 1145 to the Claims Division, General Accounting Office.
(c) Payment of an award, compromise, or settlement in excess of $100,000 shall be obtained by the bureau by forwarding Standard Form 1145 to the Bureau of Government Financial Operations, Department of the Treasury, which will be responsible for transmitting the award, compromise, or settlement to the Bureau of the Budget for inclusion in a deficiency appropriation bill.
(d) When an award is in excess of $25,000, Standard Form 1145 must be accompanied by evidence that the award, compromise, or settlement has been approved by the Attorney General or his designee.
(e) When the use of Standard Form 1145 is required, it shall be executed by the claimant. When a claimant is represented by an attorney, the voucher for payment shall designate both the claimant and his attorney as payees; the check shall be delivered to the attorney, whose address shall appear on the voucher.
(f) Acceptance by the claimant, his agent, or legal representative, of any award, compromise or settlement made pursuant to the provisions of section 2672 or 2677 of title 28, United States Code, shall be final and conclusive on the claimant, his agent or legal representative and any other person on whose behalf or for whose benefit the claim has been presented, and shall constitute a complete release of any claim against the United States and against any employee of the Government whose act or omission gave rise to the claim, by reason of the same subject matter.
[[35 FR 6429, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended at 39 FR 19470, June 3, 1974]]

§ 3.8   Statute of limitations.

Claims under this subpart must be presented in writing to the Department within 2 years after the claim accrued.

Subpart B—Claims Under the Small Claims Act


§ 3.20   General.

The Act of December 28, 1922, 42 Stat. 1066, the Small Claims Act, authorized the head of each department and establishment to consider, ascertain, adjust, and determine claims of $1,000 or less for damage to, or loss of, privately owned property caused by the negligence of any officer or employee of the Government acting within the scope of his employment. The Federal Tort Claims Act superseded the Small Claims Act with respect to claims that are allowable under the former act. Therefore, claims that are not allowable under the Federal Tort Claims Act, for example, claims arising abroad, may be allowable under the Small Claims Act.

§ 3.21   Action by claimant.

Procedures and requirements for filing claims under this section shall be the same as required for filing claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act as set forth in Subpart A of this part.

§ 3.22   Legal review.

Claims filed under this subpart shall be forwarded to the legal division of the bureau or office out of whose activities the claim arose. The claim, together with the reports of the employee and the investigation, shall be reviewed in the legal division which shall thereupon make a recommendation that the claim be approved, disapproved or compromised.

§ 3.23   Approval of claims.

Claims shall be approved, disapproved, or compromised by the head of the bureau or office or his designee, taking into consideration the recommendation of the legal division.

§ 3.24   Statute of limitations.

No claim will be considered under this subpart unless filed within 1 year from the date of the accrual of said claim.

Subpart C—Indemnification of Department of Treasury Employees

[Source:56 FR 42938, Aug. 30, 1991, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
56 FR 42938, Aug. 30, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

§ 3.30   Policy.

(a) The Department of the Treasury may indemnify, in whole or in part, a Department employee (which for purposes of this regulation shall include a former employee) for any verdict, judgment or other monetary award rendered against such employee, provided the Secretary or his or her designee determines that (1) the conduct giving rise to such verdict, judgment or award was within the scope of his or her employment and (2) such indemnification is in the interest of the Department of the Treasury.
(b) The Department of the Treasury may pay for the settlement or compromise of a claim against a Department employee at any time, provided the Secretary or his or her designee determines that (1) the alleged conduct giving rise to the claim was within the scope of the employee's employment and (2) such settlement or compromise is in the interest of the Department of the Treasury.
(c) Absent exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Secretary or his or her designee, the Department will not entertain a request to indemnify or to pay for settlement of a claim before entry of an adverse judgment, verdict or other determination.
(d) When a Department employee becomes aware that he or she has been named as a party in a proceeding in his or her individual capacity as a result of conduct within the scope of his or her employment, the employee should immediately notify his or her supervisor that such an action is pending. The supervisor shall promptly thereafter notify the chief legal officer of the employee's employing component. The employee shall immediately apprise the chief legal officer of his or her employing component of any offer to settle the proceeding.
(e) A Department employee may request indemnification to satisfy a verdict, judgment or monetary award entered against the employee or to compromise a claim pending against the employee. The employee shall submit a written request, with appropriate documentation including a copy of the verdict, judgment, award or other order or settlement proposal, in a timely manner to the Secretary or his or her designee for decision.
(f) Any payment under this section either to indemnify a Department employee or to settle a claim shall be contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds for the payment of salaries and expenses of the employing component.

PART 4—EMPLOYEES' PERSONAL PROPERTY CLAIMS

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3721(j).]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3721(j).
[Source:62 FR 18518, Apr. 16, 1997, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
62 FR 18518, Apr. 16, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

§ 4.1   Procedures.

The procedures for filing a claim with the Treasury Department for personal property that is lost or damaged incident to service are contained in Treasury Directive 32-13, “Claims for Loss or Damage to Personal Property,” and Treasury Department Publication 32-13, “Policies and Procedures For Employees' Claim for Loss or Damage to Personal Property Incident to Service.”

PART 5—TREASURY DEBT COLLECTION

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 5514; 26 U.S.C. 6402; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3701, 3711, 3716, 3717, 3718, 3720A, 3720B, 3720D.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514; 26 U.S.C. 6402; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3701, 3711, 3716, 3717, 3718, 3720A, 3720B, 3720D.
[Source:67 FR 65845, Oct. 28, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
67 FR 65845, Oct. 28, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 5.1   What definitions apply to the regulations in this part?

As used in this part:
Administrative offset or offset means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State Government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the person. The term “administrative offset” includes, but is not limited to, the offset of Federal salary, vendor, retirement, and Social Security benefit payments. The terms “centralized administrative offset” and “centralized offset” refer to the process by which the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service offsets Federal payments through the Treasury Offset Program.
Administrative offset
or
offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State Government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the person. The term “administrative offset” includes, but is not limited to, the offset of Federal salary, vendor, retirement, and Social Security benefit payments. The terms “centralized administrative offset” and “centralized offset” refer to the process by which the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service offsets Federal payments through the Treasury Offset Program.
Administrative wage garnishment means the process by which a Federal agency orders a non-Federal employer to withhold amounts from a debtor's wages to satisfy a debt, as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720D, 31 CFR 285.11, and this part.
Administrative wage garnishment
means the process by which a Federal agency orders a non-Federal employer to withhold amounts from a debtor's wages to satisfy a debt, as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720D, 31 CFR 285.11, and this part.
Agency or Federal agency means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Agency
or
Federal agency
means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Creditor agency means any Federal agency that is owed a debt.
Creditor agency
means any Federal agency that is owed a debt.
Debt means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States by a person. As used in this part, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).
Debt
means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States by a person. As used in this part, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
).
Debtor means a person who owes a debt to the United States.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt to the United States.
Delinquent debt means a debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement) unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
Delinquent debt
means a debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement) unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
Delinquent Treasury debt means a delinquent debt owed to a Treasury entity.
Delinquent Treasury debt
means a delinquent debt owed to a Treasury entity.
Disposable pay has the same meaning as that term is defined in 5 CFR 550.1103.
Disposable pay
has the same meaning as that term is defined in 5 CFR 550.1103.
Employee or Federal employee means a current employee of the Treasury Department or other Federal agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces, Reserve of the Armed Forces of the United States, or the National Guard.
Employee
or
Federal employee
means a current employee of the Treasury Department or other Federal agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces, Reserve of the Armed Forces of the United States, or the National Guard.
FCCS means the Federal Claims Collection Standards, which were jointly published by the Departments of the Treasury and Justice and codified at 31 CFR parts 900-904.
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards, which were jointly published by the Departments of the Treasury and Justice and codified at 31 CFR parts 900-904.
Financial Management Service means the Financial Management Service, a bureau of the Treasury Department, which is responsible for the centralized collection of delinquent debts through the offset of Federal payments and other means.
Financial Management Service
means the Financial Management Service, a bureau of the Treasury Department, which is responsible for the centralized collection of delinquent debts through the offset of Federal payments and other means.
Payment agency or Federal payment agency means any Federal agency that transmits payment requests in the form of certified payment vouchers, or other similar forms, to a disbursing official for disbursement. The “payment agency” may be the agency that employs the debtor. In some cases, the Treasury Department may be both the creditor agency and payment agency.
Payment agency
or
Federal payment agency
means any Federal agency that transmits payment requests in the form of certified payment vouchers, or other similar forms, to a disbursing official for disbursement. The “payment agency” may be the agency that employs the debtor. In some cases, the Treasury Department may be both the creditor agency and payment agency.
Person means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency.
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency.
Salary offset means a type of administrative offset to collect a debt owed by a Federal employee from the current pay account of the employee.
Salary offset
means a type of administrative offset to collect a debt owed by a Federal employee from the current pay account of the employee.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Tax refund offset is defined in 31 CFR 285.2(a).
Tax refund offset
is defined in 31 CFR 285.2(a).
Treasury debt means a debt owed to a Treasury entity by a person.
Treasury debt
means a debt owed to a Treasury entity by a person.
Treasury Department means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury Department
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury entity means the Office of Inspector General, the Office of Inspector General for Tax Administration, or a bureau of the Treasury Department, including the Departmental Offices, responsible for the collection of the applicable Treasury debt. Departmental Offices include, but are not limited to, the Office of D.C. Pensions, the Community Development Financial Institution Fund, the Executive Office of Asset Forfeiture, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Other bureaus include, but are not limited to, the Bureau of Public Debt; Bureau of Engraving and Printing; U.S. Mint; U.S. Secret Service; Customs Service; Financial Management Service; Internal Revenue Service; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms; Office of Comptroller of the Currency; the Office of Thrift Supervision; Federal Law Enforcement Training Center; and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Treasury entity
means the Office of Inspector General, the Office of Inspector General for Tax Administration, or a bureau of the Treasury Department, including the Departmental Offices, responsible for the collection of the applicable Treasury debt. Departmental Offices include, but are not limited to, the Office of D.C. Pensions, the Community Development Financial Institution Fund, the Executive Office of Asset Forfeiture, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Other bureaus include, but are not limited to, the Bureau of Public Debt; Bureau of Engraving and Printing; U.S. Mint; U.S. Secret Service; Customs Service; Financial Management Service; Internal Revenue Service; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms; Office of Comptroller of the Currency; the Office of Thrift Supervision; Federal Law Enforcement Training Center; and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.

§ 5.2   Why is the Treasury Department issuing these regulations and what do they cover?

(a) Scope. This part provides procedures for the collection of Treasury debts. This part also provides procedures for collection of other debts owed to the United States when a request for offset of a Treasury payment is received by the Treasury Department from another agency (for example, when a Treasury Department employee owes a debt to the United States Department of Education).
Scope.
This part provides procedures for the collection of Treasury debts. This part also provides procedures for collection of other debts owed to the United States when a request for offset of a Treasury payment is received by the Treasury Department from another agency (for example, when a Treasury Department employee owes a debt to the United States Department of Education).
(b) Applicability. (1) This part applies to the Treasury Department when collecting a Treasury debt, to persons who owe Treasury debts, and to Federal agencies requesting offset of a payment issued by the Treasury Department as a payment agency (including salary payments to Treasury Department employees).
Applicability.
(1) This part applies to the Treasury Department when collecting a Treasury debt, to persons who owe Treasury debts, and to Federal agencies requesting offset of a payment issued by the Treasury Department as a payment agency (including salary payments to Treasury Department employees).
(2) This part does not apply to tax debts nor to any debt for which there is an indication of fraud or misrepresentation, as described in § 900.3 of the FCCS, unless the debt is returned by the Department of Justice to the Treasury Department for handling.
(3) This part does not apply to the Financial Management Service when acting on behalf of other Federal agencies and states to collect delinquent debt referred to the Financial Management Service for collection action as required or authorized by Federal law. See 31 CFR part 285.
See
31 CFR part 285.
(4) Nothing in this part precludes collection or disposition of any debt under statutes and regulations other than those described in this part. See, for example, 5 U.S.C. 5705, Advancements and Deductions, which authorizes Treasury entities to recover travel advances by offset of up to 100% of a Federal employee's accrued pay. See, also, 5 U.S.C. 4108, governing the collection of training expenses. To the extent that the provisions of laws, other regulations, and Treasury Department enforcement policies differ from the provisions of this part, those provisions of law, other regulations, and Treasury Department enforcement policies apply to the remission or mitigation of fines, penalties, and forfeitures, and debts arising under the tariff laws of the United States, rather than the provisions of this part.
See, for example,
5 U.S.C. 5705, Advancements and Deductions, which authorizes Treasury entities to recover travel advances by offset of up to 100% of a Federal employee's accrued pay.
See, also,
5 U.S.C. 4108, governing the collection of training expenses. To the extent that the provisions of laws, other regulations, and Treasury Department enforcement policies differ from the provisions of this part, those provisions of law, other regulations, and Treasury Department enforcement policies apply to the remission or mitigation of fines, penalties, and forfeitures, and debts arising under the tariff laws of the United States, rather than the provisions of this part.
(c) Additional policies and procedures. Treasury entities may, but are not required to, promulgate additional policies and procedures consistent with this part, the FCCS, and other applicable Federal law, policies, and procedures.
Additional policies and procedures.
Treasury entities may, but are not required to, promulgate additional policies and procedures consistent with this part, the FCCS, and other applicable Federal law, policies, and procedures.
(d) Duplication not required. Nothing in this part requires a Treasury entity to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract, this part, or other laws or regulations.
Duplication not required.
Nothing in this part requires a Treasury entity to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract, this part, or other laws or regulations.
(e) Use of multiple collection remedies allowed. Treasury entities and other Federal agencies may simultaneously use multiple collection remedies to collect a debt, except as prohibited by law. This part is intended to promote aggressive debt collection, using for each debt all available collection remedies. These remedies are not listed in any prescribed order to provide Treasury entities with flexibility in determining which remedies will be most efficient in collecting the particular debt.
Use of multiple collection remedies allowed.
Treasury entities and other Federal agencies may simultaneously use multiple collection remedies to collect a debt, except as prohibited by law. This part is intended to promote aggressive debt collection, using for each debt all available collection remedies. These remedies are not listed in any prescribed order to provide Treasury entities with flexibility in determining which remedies will be most efficient in collecting the particular debt.

§ 5.3   Do these regulations adopt the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS)?

This part adopts and incorporates all provisions of the FCCS. This part also supplements the FCCS by prescribing procedures consistent with the FCCS, as necessary and appropriate for Treasury Department operations.

Subpart B—Procedures To Collect Treasury Debts


§ 5.4   What notice will Treasury entities send to a debtor when collecting a Treasury debt?

(a) Notice requirements. Treasury entities shall aggressively collect Treasury debts. Treasury entities shall promptly send at least one written notice to a debtor informing the debtor of the consequences of failing to pay or otherwise resolve a Treasury debt. The notice(s) shall be sent to the debtor at the most current address of the debtor in the records of the Treasury entity collecting the debt. Generally, before starting the collection actions described in §§ 5.5 and 5.9 through 5.17 of this part, Treasury entities will send no more than two written notices to the debtor. The purpose of the notice(s) is to explain why the debt is owed, the amount of the debt, how a debtor may pay the debt or make alternate repayment arrangements, how a debtor may review documents related to the debt, how a debtor may dispute the debt, the collection remedies available to Treasury entities if the debtor refuses to pay the debt, and other consequences to the debtor if the debt is not paid. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the written notice(s) shall explain to the debtor:
Notice requirements.
Treasury entities shall aggressively collect Treasury debts. Treasury entities shall promptly send at least one written notice to a debtor informing the debtor of the consequences of failing to pay or otherwise resolve a Treasury debt. The notice(s) shall be sent to the debtor at the most current address of the debtor in the records of the Treasury entity collecting the debt. Generally, before starting the collection actions described in §§ 5.5 and 5.9 through 5.17 of this part, Treasury entities will send no more than two written notices to the debtor. The purpose of the notice(s) is to explain why the debt is owed, the amount of the debt, how a debtor may pay the debt or make alternate repayment arrangements, how a debtor may review documents related to the debt, how a debtor may dispute the debt, the collection remedies available to Treasury entities if the debtor refuses to pay the debt, and other consequences to the debtor if the debt is not paid. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the written notice(s) shall explain to the debtor:
(1) The nature and amount of the debt, and the facts giving rise to the debt;
(2) How interest, penalties, and administrative costs are added to the debt, the date by which payment should be made to avoid such charges, and that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with 31 CFR 901.9 (see § 5.5 of this part);
see
§ 5.5 of this part);
(3) The date by which payment should be made to avoid the enforced collection actions described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section;
(4) The Treasury entity's willingness to discuss alternative payment arrangements and how the debtor may enter into a written agreement to repay the debt under terms acceptable to the Treasury entity (see § 5.6 of this part);
see
§ 5.6 of this part);
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of a contact person or office within the Treasury entity;
(6) The Treasury entity's intention to enforce collection if the debtor fails to pay or otherwise resolve the debt, by taking one or more of the following actions:
(i) Offset. Offset the debtor's Federal payments, including income tax refunds, salary, certain benefit payments (such as Social Security), retirement, vendor, travel reimbursements and advances, and other Federal payments (see §§ 5.10 through 5.12 of this part);
Offset.
Offset the debtor's Federal payments, including income tax refunds, salary, certain benefit payments (such as Social Security), retirement, vendor, travel reimbursements and advances, and other Federal payments (
see
§§ 5.10 through 5.12 of this part);
(ii) Private collection agency. Refer the debt to a private collection agency (see § 5.15 of this part);
Private collection agency.
Refer the debt to a private collection agency (
see
§ 5.15 of this part);
(iii) Credit bureau reporting. Report the debt to a credit bureau (see § 5.14 of this part);
Credit bureau reporting.
Report the debt to a credit bureau (
see
§ 5.14 of this part);
(iv) Administrative wage garnishment. Garnish the debtor's wages through administrative wage garnishment (see § 5.13 of this part);
Administrative wage garnishment.
Garnish the debtor's wages through administrative wage garnishment (
see
§ 5.13 of this part);
(v) Litigation. Refer the debt to the Department of Justice to initiate litigation to collect the debt (see § 5.16 of this part);
Litigation.
Refer the debt to the Department of Justice to initiate litigation to collect the debt (
see
§ 5.16 of this part);
(vi) Treasury Department's Financial Management Service. Refer the debt to the Financial Management Service for collection (see § 5.9 of this part);
Treasury Department's Financial Management Service.
Refer the debt to the Financial Management Service for collection (
see
§ 5.9 of this part);
(7) That Treasury debts over 180 days delinquent must be referred to the Financial Management Service for the collection actions described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section (see § 5.9 of this part);
see
§ 5.9 of this part);
(8) How the debtor may inspect and copy records related to the debt;
(9) How the debtor may request a review of the Treasury entity's determination that the debtor owes a debt and present evidence that the debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable (see §§ 5.10(c) and 5.11(c) of this part);
see
§§ 5.10(c) and 5.11(c) of this part);
(10) How a debtor may request a hearing if the Treasury entity intends to garnish the debtor's private sector (i.e., non-Federal) wages (see § 5.13(a) of this part), including:
i.e.,
non-Federal) wages (
see
§ 5.13(a) of this part), including:
(i) The method and time period for requesting a hearing;
(ii) That the timely filing of a request for a hearing on or before the 15th business day following the date of the notice will stay the commencement of administrative wage garnishment, but not necessarily other collection procedures; and
(iii) The name and address of the office to which the request for a hearing should be sent.
(11) How a debtor who is a Federal employee subject to Federal salary offset may request a hearing (see § 5.12(e) of this part), including:
see
§ 5.12(e) of this part), including:
(i) The method and time period for requesting a hearing;
(ii) That the timely filing of a request for a hearing on or before the 15th calendar day following receipt of the notice will stay the commencement of salary offset, but not necessarily other collection procedures;
(iii) The name and address of the office to which the request for a hearing should be sent;
(iv) That the Treasury entity will refer the debt to the debtor's employing agency or to the Financial Management Service to implement salary offset, unless the employee files a timely request for a hearing;
(v) That a final decision on the hearing, if requested, will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the request for a hearing, unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(vi) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the Federal employee to penalties under the False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3731) or other applicable statutory authority, and criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002, or other applicable statutory authority;
(vii) That unless prohibited by contract or statute, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee; and
(viii) That proceedings with respect to such debt are governed by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716;
(12) How the debtor may request a waiver of the debt, if applicable (see, for example, Treasury Directive 34-01 (Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments), set forth at appendix A of this part and at http://www.treas.gov/regs);
see, for example,
Treasury Directive 34-01 (Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments), set forth at appendix A of this part and at
http://www.treas.gov/regs
);
(13) How the debtor's spouse may claim his or her share of a joint income tax refund by filing Form 8379 with the Internal Revenue Service (see http://www.irs.gov)
see http://www.irs.gov
)
(14) How the debtor may exercise other statutory or regulatory rights and remedies available to the debtor;
(15) That certain debtors may be ineligible for Federal Government loans, guaranties and insurance (see 31 U.S.C. 3720B, 31 CFR 285.13, and § 5.17(a) of this part);
see
31 U.S.C. 3720B, 31 CFR 285.13, and § 5.17(a) of this part);
(16) If applicable, the Treasury entity's intention to suspend or revoke licenses, permits or privileges (see § 5.17(b) of this part); and
see
§ 5.17(b) of this part); and
(17) That the debtor should advise the Treasury entity of a bankruptcy proceeding of the debtor or another person liable for the debt being collected.
(b) Exceptions to notice requirements. A Treasury entity may omit from a notice to a debtor one or more of the provisions contained in paragraphs (a)(6) through (a)(17) of this section if the Treasury entity, in consultation with its legal counsel, determines that any provision is not legally required given the collection remedies to be applied to a particular debt.
Exceptions to notice requirements.
A Treasury entity may omit from a notice to a debtor one or more of the provisions contained in paragraphs (a)(6) through (a)(17) of this section if the Treasury entity, in consultation with its legal counsel, determines that any provision is not legally required given the collection remedies to be applied to a particular debt.
(c) Respond to debtors; comply with FCCS. Treasury entities should respond promptly to communications from debtors and comply with other FCCS provisions applicable to the administrative collection of debts. See 31 CFR part 901.
Respond to debtors; comply with FCCS.
Treasury entities should respond promptly to communications from debtors and comply with other FCCS provisions applicable to the administrative collection of debts.
See
31 CFR part 901.

§ 5.5   How will Treasury entities add interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs to a Treasury debt?

(a) Assessment and notice. Treasury entities shall assess interest, penalties and administrative costs on Treasury debts in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR 901.9, on Treasury debts. Interest shall be charged in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3717(a). Penalties shall accrue at the rate of 6% per year, or such other higher rate as authorized by law. Administrative costs, that is the costs of processing and handling a delinquent debt, shall be determined by the Treasury entity collecting the Treasury debt. Treasury entities may have additional policies regarding how interest, penalties, and administrative costs are assessed on particular types of debts. Treasury entities are required to explain in the notice to the debtor described in § 5.4 of this part how interest, penalties, costs, and other charges are assessed, unless the requirements are included in a contract or repayment agreement.
Assessment and notice.
Treasury entities shall assess interest, penalties and administrative costs on Treasury debts in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR 901.9, on Treasury debts. Interest shall be charged in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3717(a). Penalties shall accrue at the rate of 6% per year, or such other higher rate as authorized by law. Administrative costs, that is the costs of processing and handling a delinquent debt, shall be determined by the Treasury entity collecting the Treasury debt. Treasury entities may have additional policies regarding how interest, penalties, and administrative costs are assessed on particular types of debts. Treasury entities are required to explain in the notice to the debtor described in § 5.4 of this part how interest, penalties, costs, and other charges are assessed, unless the requirements are included in a contract or repayment agreement.
(b) Waiver of interest, penalties, and administrative costs. Unless otherwise required by law, Treasury entities may not charge interest if the amount due on the debt is paid within 30 days after the date from which the interest accrues. See 31 U.S.C. 3717(d). Treasury entities may waive interest, penalties, and administrative costs, or any portion thereof, when it would be against equity and good conscience or not in the Treasury entity's best interest to collect such charges, in accordance with Treasury guidelines for waiving claims against Treasury employees for erroneous overpayments. See Treasury Directive 34-01 (Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments) set forth at appendix A of this part and at http://www.treas.gov/regs. Legal counsel approval is not required to waive such charges. Cf., §§ 5.7 and 5.8 of this part, which require legal counsel approval when compromising a debt or terminating debt collection activity on a debt.
Waiver of interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Unless otherwise required by law, Treasury entities may not charge interest if the amount due on the debt is paid within 30 days after the date from which the interest accrues.
See
31 U.S.C. 3717(d). Treasury entities may waive interest, penalties, and administrative costs, or any portion thereof, when it would be against equity and good conscience or not in the Treasury entity's best interest to collect such charges, in accordance with Treasury guidelines for waiving claims against Treasury employees for erroneous overpayments.
See
Treasury Directive 34-01 (Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments) set forth at appendix A of this part and at
http://www.treas.gov/regs.
Legal counsel approval is not required to waive such charges. Cf., §§ 5.7 and 5.8 of this part, which require legal counsel approval when compromising a debt or terminating debt collection activity on a debt.
(c) Accrual during suspension of debt collection. In most cases, interest, penalties and administrative costs will continue to accrue during any period when collection has been suspended for any reason (for example, when the debtor has requested a hearing). Treasury entities may suspend accrual of any or all of these charges when accrual would be against equity and good conscience or not in the Treasury entity's best interest, in accordance with Treasury guidelines for waiving claims against Treasury employees for erroneous overpayments. See Treasury Directive 34-01 (Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments), set forth at appendix A of this part and http://www.treas.gov/regs.
Accrual during suspension of debt collection.
In most cases, interest, penalties and administrative costs will continue to accrue during any period when collection has been suspended for any reason (for example, when the debtor has requested a hearing). Treasury entities may suspend accrual of any or all of these charges when accrual would be against equity and good conscience or not in the Treasury entity's best interest, in accordance with Treasury guidelines for waiving claims against Treasury employees for erroneous overpayments.
See
Treasury Directive 34-01 (Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments), set forth at appendix A of this part and
http://www.treas.gov/regs.

§ 5.6   When will Treasury entities allow a debtor to pay a Treasury debt in installments instead of one lump sum?

If a debtor is financially unable to pay the debt in one lump sum, a Treasury entity may accept payment of a Treasury debt in regular installments, in accordance with the provisions of 31 CFR 901.8 and the Treasury entity's policies and procedures.

§ 5.7   When will Treasury entities compromise a Treasury debt?

If a Treasury entity cannot collect the full amount of a Treasury debt, the Treasury entity may compromise the debt in accordance with the provisions of 31 CFR part 902 and the Treasury entity's policies and procedures. Legal counsel approval to compromise a Treasury debt is required as described in Treasury Directive 34-02 (Credit Management and Debt Collection), which may be found at http://www.treas.gov/regs.
http://www.treas.gov/regs.

§ 5.8   When will Treasury entities suspend or terminate debt collection on a Treasury debt?

If, after pursuing all appropriate means of collection, a Treasury entity determines that a Treasury debt is uncollectible, the Treasury entity may suspend or terminate debt collection activity in accordance with the provisions of 31 CFR part 903 and the Treasury entity's policies and procedures. Legal counsel approval to terminate debt collection activity is required as described in Treasury Directive 34-02 (Credit Management and Debt Collection), which may be found at http://www.treas.gov/regs.
http://www.treas.gov/regs.

§ 5.9   When will Treasury entities transfer a Treasury debt to the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service for collection?

(a) Treasury entities will transfer any eligible debt that is more than 180 days delinquent to the Financial Management Service for debt collection services, a process known as “cross-servicing.” See 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 31 CFR 285.12. Treasury entities may transfer debts delinquent 180 days or less to the Financial Management Service in accordance with the procedures described in 31 CFR 285.12. The Financial Management Service takes appropriate action to collect or compromise the transferred debt, or to suspend or terminate collection action thereon, in accordance with the statutory and regulatory requirements and authorities applicable to the debt and the collection action to be taken. See 31 CFR 285.12(b)(2). Appropriate action includes, but is not limited to, contact with the debtor, referral of the debt to the Treasury Offset Program, private collection agencies or the Department of Justice, reporting of the debt to credit bureaus, and administrative wage garnishment.
See
31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 31 CFR 285.12. Treasury entities may transfer debts delinquent 180 days or less to the Financial Management Service in accordance with the procedures described in 31 CFR 285.12. The Financial Management Service takes appropriate action to collect or compromise the transferred debt, or to suspend or terminate collection action thereon, in accordance with the statutory and regulatory requirements and authorities applicable to the debt and the collection action to be taken.
See
31 CFR 285.12(b)(2). Appropriate action includes, but is not limited to, contact with the debtor, referral of the debt to the Treasury Offset Program, private collection agencies or the Department of Justice, reporting of the debt to credit bureaus, and administrative wage garnishment.
(b) At least sixty (60) days prior to transferring a Treasury debt to the Financial Management Service, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor as required by § 5.4 of this part. Treasury entities will certify to the Financial Management Service, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection. In addition, Treasury entities will certify their compliance with all applicable due process and other requirements as described in this part and other Federal laws. See 31 CFR 285.12(i) regarding the certification requirement.
See
31 CFR 285.12(i) regarding the certification requirement.
(c) As part of its debt collection process, the Financial Management Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Treasury debts by administrative and tax refund offset. See 31 CFR 285.12(g). The Treasury Offset Program is a centralized offset program administered by the Financial Management Service to collect delinquent debts owed to Federal agencies and states (including past-due child support). Under the Treasury Offset Program, before a Federal payment is disbursed, the Financial Management Service compares the name and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the payee with the names and TINs of debtors that have been submitted by Federal agencies and states to the Treasury Offset Program database. If there is a match, the Financial Management Service (or, in some cases, another Federal disbursing agency) offsets all or a portion of the Federal payment, disburses any remaining payment to the payee, and pays the offset amount to the creditor agency. Federal payments eligible for offset include, but are not limited to, income tax refunds, salary, travel advances and reimbursements, retirement and vendor payments, and Social Security and other benefit payments.
See
31 CFR 285.12(g). The Treasury Offset Program is a centralized offset program administered by the Financial Management Service to collect delinquent debts owed to Federal agencies and states (including past-due child support). Under the Treasury Offset Program, before a Federal payment is disbursed, the Financial Management Service compares the name and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the payee with the names and TINs of debtors that have been submitted by Federal agencies and states to the Treasury Offset Program database. If there is a match, the Financial Management Service (or, in some cases, another Federal disbursing agency) offsets all or a portion of the Federal payment, disburses any remaining payment to the payee, and pays the offset amount to the creditor agency. Federal payments eligible for offset include, but are not limited to, income tax refunds, salary, travel advances and reimbursements, retirement and vendor payments, and Social Security and other benefit payments.

§ 5.10   How will Treasury entities use administrative offset (offset of non-tax Federal payments) to collect a Treasury debt?

(a) Centralized administrative offset through the Treasury Offset Program. (1) In most cases, the Financial Management Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Treasury debts by the offset of Federal payments. See § 5.9(c) of this part. If not already transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part, Treasury entities will refer any eligible debt over 180 days delinquent to the Treasury Offset Program for collection by centralized administrative offset. See 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6); 31 CFR part 285, subpart A; and 31 CFR 901.3(b). Treasury entities may refer any eligible debt less than 180 days delinquent to the Treasury Offset Program for offset.
Centralized administrative offset through the Treasury Offset Program.
(1) In most cases, the Financial Management Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Treasury debts by the offset of Federal payments.
See
§ 5.9(c) of this part. If not already transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part, Treasury entities will refer any eligible debt over 180 days delinquent to the Treasury Offset Program for collection by centralized administrative offset.
See
31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6); 31 CFR part 285, subpart A; and 31 CFR 901.3(b). Treasury entities may refer any eligible debt less than 180 days delinquent to the Treasury Offset Program for offset.
(2) At least sixty (60) days prior to referring a debt to the Treasury Offset Program, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part. Treasury entities will certify to the Financial Management Service, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection by offset. In addition, Treasury entities will certify their compliance with the requirements described in this part.
(b) Non-centralized administrative offset for Treasury debts. (1) When centralized administrative offset through the Treasury Offset Program is not available or appropriate, Treasury entities may collect past-due, legally enforceable Treasury debts through non-centralized administrative offset. See 31 CFR 901.3(c). In these cases, Treasury entities may offset a payment internally or make an offset request directly to a Federal payment agency. If the Federal payment agency is another Treasury entity, the Treasury entity making the request shall do so through the Deputy Chief Financial Officer as described in § 5.20(c) of this part.
Non-centralized administrative offset for Treasury debts.
(1) When centralized administrative offset through the Treasury Offset Program is not available or appropriate, Treasury entities may collect past-due, legally enforceable Treasury debts through non-centralized administrative offset.
See
31 CFR 901.3(c). In these cases, Treasury entities may offset a payment internally or make an offset request directly to a Federal payment agency. If the Federal payment agency is another Treasury entity, the Treasury entity making the request shall do so through the Deputy Chief Financial Officer as described in § 5.20(c) of this part.
(2) At least thirty (30) days prior to offsetting a payment internally or requesting a Federal payment agency to offset a payment, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part. When referring a debt for offset under this paragraph (b), Treasury entities making the request will certify, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection by offset. In addition, Treasury entities will certify their compliance with these regulations concerning administrative offset. See 31 CFR 901.3(c)(2)(ii).
See
31 CFR 901.3(c)(2)(ii).
(c) Administrative review. The notice described in § 5.4 of this part shall explain to the debtor how to request an administrative review of a Treasury entity's determination that the debtor owes a Treasury debt and how to present evidence that the debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable. In addition to challenging the existence and amount of the debt, the debtor may seek a review of the terms of repayment. In most cases, Treasury entities will provide the debtor with a “paper hearing” based upon a review of the written record, including documentation provided by the debtor. Treasury entities shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the Treasury entity determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although Treasury entities should carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. Treasury entities may suspend collection through administrative offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of a debtor's dispute. Each Treasury entity will have its own policies and procedures concerning the administrative review process consistent with the FCCS and the regulations in this section.
Administrative review.
The notice described in § 5.4 of this part shall explain to the debtor how to request an administrative review of a Treasury entity's determination that the debtor owes a Treasury debt and how to present evidence that the debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable. In addition to challenging the existence and amount of the debt, the debtor may seek a review of the terms of repayment. In most cases, Treasury entities will provide the debtor with a “paper hearing” based upon a review of the written record, including documentation provided by the debtor. Treasury entities shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the Treasury entity determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although Treasury entities should carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. Treasury entities may suspend collection through administrative offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of a debtor's dispute. Each Treasury entity will have its own policies and procedures concerning the administrative review process consistent with the FCCS and the regulations in this section.
(d) Procedures for expedited offset. Under the circumstances described in 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4)(iii), Treasury entities may effect an offset against a payment to be made to the debtor prior to sending a notice to the debtor, as described in § 5.4 of this part, or completing the procedures described in paragraph (b)(2) and (c) of this section. Treasury entities shall give the debtor notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.
Procedures for expedited offset.
Under the circumstances described in 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4)(iii), Treasury entities may effect an offset against a payment to be made to the debtor prior to sending a notice to the debtor, as described in § 5.4 of this part, or completing the procedures described in paragraph (b)(2) and (c) of this section. Treasury entities shall give the debtor notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.

§ 5.11   How will Treasury entities use tax refund offset to collect a Treasury debt?

(a) Tax refund offset. In most cases, the Financial Management Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Treasury debts by the offset of tax refunds and other Federal payments. See § 5.9(c) of this part. If not already transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part, Treasury entities will refer to the Treasury Offset Program any past-due, legally enforceable debt for collection by tax refund offset. See 26 U.S.C. 6402(d), 31 U.S.C. 3720A and 31 CFR 285.2.
Tax refund offset.
In most cases, the Financial Management Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Treasury debts by the offset of tax refunds and other Federal payments.
See
§ 5.9(c) of this part. If not already transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part, Treasury entities will refer to the Treasury Offset Program any past-due, legally enforceable debt for collection by tax refund offset.
See
26 U.S.C. 6402(d), 31 U.S.C. 3720A and 31 CFR 285.2.
(b) Notice. At least sixty (60) days prior to referring a debt to the Treasury Offset Program, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part. Treasury entities will certify to the Financial Management Service's Treasury Offset Program, in writing, that the debt is past-due and legally enforceable in the amount submitted and that the Treasury entities have made reasonable efforts to obtain payment of the debt as described in 31 CFR 285.2(d). In addition, Treasury entities will certify their compliance with all applicable due process and other requirements described in this part and other Federal laws. See 31 U.S.C. 3720A(b) and 31 CFR 285.2.
Notice.
At least sixty (60) days prior to referring a debt to the Treasury Offset Program, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part. Treasury entities will certify to the Financial Management Service's Treasury Offset Program, in writing, that the debt is past-due and legally enforceable in the amount submitted and that the Treasury entities have made reasonable efforts to obtain payment of the debt as described in 31 CFR 285.2(d). In addition, Treasury entities will certify their compliance with all applicable due process and other requirements described in this part and other Federal laws.
See
31 U.S.C. 3720A(b) and 31 CFR 285.2.
(c) Administrative review. The notice described in § 5.4 of this part shall provide the debtor with at least 60 days prior to the initiation of tax refund offset to request an administrative review as described in § 5.10(c) of this part. Treasury entities may suspend collection through tax refund offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of the debtor's dispute.
Administrative review.
The notice described in § 5.4 of this part shall provide the debtor with at least 60 days prior to the initiation of tax refund offset to request an administrative review as described in § 5.10(c) of this part. Treasury entities may suspend collection through tax refund offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of the debtor's dispute.

§ 5.12   How will Treasury entities offset a Federal employee's salary to collect a Treasury debt?

(a) Federal salary offset. (1) Salary offset is used to collect debts owed to the United States by Treasury Department and other Federal employees. If a Federal employee owes a Treasury debt, Treasury entities may offset the employee's Federal salary to collect the debt in the manner described in this section. For information on how a Federal agency other than a Treasury entity may collect debt from the salary of a Treasury Department employee, see §§ 5.20 and 5.21, subpart C, of this part.
Federal salary offset.
(1) Salary offset is used to collect debts owed to the United States by Treasury Department and other Federal employees. If a Federal employee owes a Treasury debt, Treasury entities may offset the employee's Federal salary to collect the debt in the manner described in this section. For information on how a Federal agency other than a Treasury entity may collect debt from the salary of a Treasury Department employee, see §§ 5.20 and 5.21, subpart C, of this part.
(2) Nothing in this part requires a Treasury entity to collect a Treasury debt in accordance with the provisions of this section if Federal law allows otherwise. See, for example, 5 U.S.C. 5705 (travel advances not used for allowable travel expenses are recoverable from the employee or his estate by setoff against accrued pay and other means) and 5 U.S.C. 4108 (recovery of training expenses).
See, for example,
5 U.S.C. 5705 (travel advances not used for allowable travel expenses are recoverable from the employee or his estate by setoff against accrued pay and other means) and 5 U.S.C. 4108 (recovery of training expenses).
(3) Treasury entities may use the administrative wage garnishment procedure described in § 5.13 of this part to collect a debt from an individual's non-Federal wages.
(b) Centralized salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program. As described in § 5.9(a) of this part, Treasury entities will refer Treasury debts to the Financial Management Service for collection by administrative offset, including salary offset, through the Treasury Offset Program. When possible, Treasury entities should attempt salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program before applying the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section. See 5 CFR 550.1109.
Centralized salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program.
As described in § 5.9(a) of this part, Treasury entities will refer Treasury debts to the Financial Management Service for collection by administrative offset, including salary offset, through the Treasury Offset Program. When possible, Treasury entities should attempt salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program before applying the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section. See 5 CFR 550.1109.
(c) Non-centralized salary offset for Treasury debts. When centralized salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program is not available or appropriate, Treasury entities may collect delinquent Treasury debts through non-centralized salary offset. See 5 CFR 550.1109. In these cases, Treasury entities may offset a payment internally or make a request directly to a Federal payment agency to offset a salary payment to collect a delinquent debt owed by a Federal employee. If the Federal payment agency is another Treasury entity, the Treasury entity making the request shall do so through the Deputy Chief Financial Officer as described in § 5.20(c) of this part. At least thirty (30) days prior to offsetting internally or requesting a Federal agency to offset a salary payment, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part. When referring a debt for offset, Treasury entities will certify to the payment agency, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent and legally enforceable in the amount stated, and there are no legal bars to collection by salary offset. In addition, Treasury entities will certify that all due process and other prerequisites to salary offset have been met. See 5 U.S.C. 5514, 31 U.S.C. 3716(a), and this section for a description of the due process and other prerequisites for salary offset.
Non-centralized salary offset for Treasury debts.
When centralized salary offset through the Treasury Offset Program is not available or appropriate, Treasury entities may collect delinquent Treasury debts through non-centralized salary offset.
See
5 CFR 550.1109. In these cases, Treasury entities may offset a payment internally or make a request directly to a Federal payment agency to offset a salary payment to collect a delinquent debt owed by a Federal employee. If the Federal payment agency is another Treasury entity, the Treasury entity making the request shall do so through the Deputy Chief Financial Officer as described in § 5.20(c) of this part. At least thirty (30) days prior to offsetting internally or requesting a Federal agency to offset a salary payment, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part. When referring a debt for offset, Treasury entities will certify to the payment agency, in writing, that the debt is valid, delinquent and legally enforceable in the amount stated, and there are no legal bars to collection by salary offset. In addition, Treasury entities will certify that all due process and other prerequisites to salary offset have been met.
See
5 U.S.C. 5514, 31 U.S.C. 3716(a), and this section for a description of the due process and other prerequisites for salary offset.
(d) When prior notice not required. Treasury entities are not required to provide prior notice to an employee when the following adjustments are made by a Treasury entity to a Treasury employee's pay:
When prior notice not required.
Treasury entities are not required to provide prior notice to an employee when the following adjustments are made by a Treasury entity to a Treasury employee's pay:
(1) Any adjustment to pay arising out of any employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(2) A routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment, and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and point of contact for contesting such adjustment; or
(3) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.
(e) Hearing procedures—(1) Request for a hearing. A Federal employee who has received a notice that his or her Treasury debt will be collected by means of salary offset may request a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt. The Federal employee also may request a hearing concerning the amount proposed to be deducted from the employee's pay each pay period. The employee must send any request for hearing, in writing, to the office designated in the notice described in § 5.4. See § 5.4(a)(11). The request must be received by the designated office on or before the 15th calendar day following the employee's receipt of the notice. The employee must sign the request and specify whether an oral or paper hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is requested, the employee must explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone. All travel expenses incurred by the Federal employee in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the employee.
Hearing procedures
—(1)
Request for a hearing.
A Federal employee who has received a notice that his or her Treasury debt will be collected by means of salary offset may request a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt. The Federal employee also may request a hearing concerning the amount proposed to be deducted from the employee's pay each pay period. The employee must send any request for hearing, in writing, to the office designated in the notice described in § 5.4.
See
§ 5.4(a)(11). The request must be received by the designated office on or before the 15th calendar day following the employee's receipt of the notice. The employee must sign the request and specify whether an oral or paper hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is requested, the employee must explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone. All travel expenses incurred by the Federal employee in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the employee.
(2) Failure to submit timely request for hearing. If the employee fails to submit a request for hearing within the time period described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the employee will have waived the right to a hearing, and salary offset may be initiated. However, Treasury entities should accept a late request for hearing if the employee can show that the late request was the result of circumstances beyond the employee's control or because of a failure to receive actual notice of the filing deadline.
Failure to submit timely request for hearing.
If the employee fails to submit a request for hearing within the time period described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the employee will have waived the right to a hearing, and salary offset may be initiated. However, Treasury entities should accept a late request for hearing if the employee can show that the late request was the result of circumstances beyond the employee's control or because of a failure to receive actual notice of the filing deadline.
(3) Hearing official. Treasury entities must obtain the services of a hearing official who is not under the supervision or control of the Secretary. Treasury entities may contact the Deputy Chief Financial Officer as described in § 5.20(c) of this part or an agent of any agency designated in Appendix A to 5 CFR part 581 (List of Agents Designated to Accept Legal Process) to request a hearing official.
Hearing official.
Treasury entities must obtain the services of a hearing official who is not under the supervision or control of the Secretary. Treasury entities may contact the Deputy Chief Financial Officer as described in § 5.20(c) of this part or an agent of any agency designated in Appendix A to 5 CFR part 581 (List of Agents Designated to Accept Legal Process) to request a hearing official.
(4) Notice of hearing. After the employee requests a hearing, the designated hearing official shall inform the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. For oral hearings, the notice shall set forth the date, time and location of the hearing. For paper hearings, the notice shall notify the employee of the date by which he or she should submit written arguments to the designated hearing official. The hearing official shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation in support of the employee's position. The hearing official shall schedule a new hearing date if requested by both parties. The hearing official shall give both parties reasonable notice of the time and place of a rescheduled hearing.
Notice of hearing.
After the employee requests a hearing, the designated hearing official shall inform the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. For oral hearings, the notice shall set forth the date, time and location of the hearing. For paper hearings, the notice shall notify the employee of the date by which he or she should submit written arguments to the designated hearing official. The hearing official shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation in support of the employee's position. The hearing official shall schedule a new hearing date if requested by both parties. The hearing official shall give both parties reasonable notice of the time and place of a rescheduled hearing.
(5) Oral hearing. The hearing official will conduct an oral hearing if he or she determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (for example, when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). The hearing need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing, but may be conducted in a manner determined by the hearing official, including but not limited to:
Oral hearing.
The hearing official will conduct an oral hearing if he or she determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (for example, when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). The hearing need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing, but may be conducted in a manner determined by the hearing official, including but not limited to:
(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official, in which the employee and agency representative will be given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses and argument;
(ii) Informal meetings with an interview of the employee by the hearing official; or
(iii) Formal written submissions, with an opportunity for oral presentation.
(6) Paper hearing. If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record, including any documentation submitted by the employee in support of his or her position.
Paper hearing.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record, including any documentation submitted by the employee in support of his or her position.
(7) Failure to appear or submit documentary evidence. In the absence of good cause shown (for example, excused illness), if the employee fails to appear at an oral hearing or fails to submit documentary evidence as required for a paper hearing, the employee will have waived the right to a hearing, and salary offset may be initiated. Further, the employee will have been deemed to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice of intent to offset. If the Treasury entity representative fails to appear at an oral hearing, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and make his or her determination based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentary evidence submitted by both parties.
Failure to appear or submit documentary evidence.
In the absence of good cause shown (for example, excused illness), if the employee fails to appear at an oral hearing or fails to submit documentary evidence as required for a paper hearing, the employee will have waived the right to a hearing, and salary offset may be initiated. Further, the employee will have been deemed to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice of intent to offset. If the Treasury entity representative fails to appear at an oral hearing, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and make his or her determination based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentary evidence submitted by both parties.
(8) Burden of proof. Treasury entities will have the initial burden to prove the existence and amount of the debt. Thereafter, if the employee disputes the existence or amount of the debt, the employee must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect. In addition, the employee may present evidence that the proposed terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause a financial hardship to the employee, or that collection of the debt may not be pursued due to operation of law.
Burden of proof.
Treasury entities will have the initial burden to prove the existence and amount of the debt. Thereafter, if the employee disputes the existence or amount of the debt, the employee must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect. In addition, the employee may present evidence that the proposed terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause a financial hardship to the employee, or that collection of the debt may not be pursued due to operation of law.
(9) Record. The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing provided by this part. Witnesses will testify under oath or affirmation in oral hearings.
Record.
The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing provided by this part. Witnesses will testify under oath or affirmation in oral hearings.
(10) Date of decision. The hearing official shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for hearing was received by the Treasury entity. If the employee requests a delay in the proceedings, the deadline for the decision may be postponed by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed. When a decision is not timely rendered, the Treasury entity shall waive penalties applied to the debt for the period beginning with the date the decision is due and ending on the date the decision is issued.
Date of decision.
The hearing official shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for hearing was received by the Treasury entity. If the employee requests a delay in the proceedings, the deadline for the decision may be postponed by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed. When a decision is not timely rendered, the Treasury entity shall waive penalties applied to the debt for the period beginning with the date the decision is due and ending on the date the decision is issued.
(11) Content of decision. The written decision shall include:
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(i) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and
(iii) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable.
(12) Final agency action. The hearing official's decision shall be final.
Final agency action.
The hearing official's decision shall be final.
(f) Waiver not precluded. Nothing in this part precludes an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 8346(b), 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or other statutory authority.
(g) Salary offset process—(1) Determination of disposable pay. The office of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer will consult with the appropriate Treasury entity payroll office to determine the amount of a Treasury Department employee's disposable pay (as defined in § 5.1 of this part) and will implement salary offset when requested to do so by a Treasury entity, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, or another agency, as described in § 5.20 of this part. If the debtor is not employed by the Treasury Department, the agency employing the debtor will determine the amount of the employee's disposable pay and will implement salary offset upon request.
Salary offset process
—(1)
Determination of disposable pay.
The office of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer will consult with the appropriate Treasury entity payroll office to determine the amount of a Treasury Department employee's disposable pay (as defined in § 5.1 of this part) and will implement salary offset when requested to do so by a Treasury entity, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, or another agency, as described in § 5.20 of this part. If the debtor is not employed by the Treasury Department, the agency employing the debtor will determine the amount of the employee's disposable pay and will implement salary offset upon request.
(2) When salary offset begins. Deductions shall begin within three official pay periods following receipt of the creditor agency's request for offset.
When salary offset begins.
Deductions shall begin within three official pay periods following receipt of the creditor agency's request for offset.
(3) Amount of salary offset. The amount to be offset from each salary payment will be up to 15 percent of a debtor's disposable pay, as follows:
Amount of salary offset.
The amount to be offset from each salary payment will be up to 15 percent of a debtor's disposable pay, as follows:
(i) If the amount of the debt is equal to or less than 15 percent of the disposable pay, such debt generally will be collected in one lump sum payment;
(ii) Installment deductions will be made over a period of no greater than the anticipated period of employment. An installment deduction will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount or the creditor agency has determined that smaller deductions are appropriate based on the employee's ability to pay.
(4) Final salary payment. After the employee has separated either voluntarily or involuntarily from the payment agency, the payment agency may make a lump sum deduction exceeding 15 percent of disposable pay from any final salary or other payments pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716 in order to satisfy a debt.
Final salary payment.
After the employee has separated either voluntarily or involuntarily from the payment agency, the payment agency may make a lump sum deduction exceeding 15 percent of disposable pay from any final salary or other payments pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716 in order to satisfy a debt.
(h) Payment agency's responsibilities. (1) As required by 5 CFR 550.1109, if the employee separates from the payment agency from which a Treasury entity has requested salary offset, the payment agency must certify the total amount of its collection and notify the Treasury entity and the employee of the amounts collected. If the payment agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the payment agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt, the amount of the debt, and that the Treasury entity has complied with the provisions of this section. Treasury entities must submit a properly certified claim to the new payment agency before the collection can be made.
Payment agency's responsibilities.
(1) As required by 5 CFR 550.1109, if the employee separates from the payment agency from which a Treasury entity has requested salary offset, the payment agency must certify the total amount of its collection and notify the Treasury entity and the employee of the amounts collected. If the payment agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the payment agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt, the amount of the debt, and that the Treasury entity has complied with the provisions of this section. Treasury entities must submit a properly certified claim to the new payment agency before the collection can be made.
(2) If the employee is already separated from employment and all payments due from his or her former payment agency have been made, Treasury entities may request that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt. Generally, Treasury entities will collect such monies through the Treasury Offset Program as described in § 5.9(c) of this part.
(3) When an employee transfers to another agency, Treasury entities should resume collection with the employee's new payment agency in order to continue salary offset.

§ 5.13   How will Treasury entities use administrative wage garnishment to collect a Treasury debt from a debtor's wages?

(a) Treasury entities are authorized to collect debts from a debtor's wages by means of administrative wage garnishment in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3720D and 31 CFR 285.11. This part adopts and incorporates all of the provisions of 31 CFR 285.11 concerning administrative wage garnishment, including the hearing procedures described in 31 CFR 285.11(f). Treasury entities may use administrative wage garnishment to collect a delinquent Treasury debt unless the debtor is making timely payments under an agreement to pay the debt in installments (see § 5.6 of this part). At least thirty (30) days prior to initiating an administrative wage garnishment, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part, including the requirements of § 5.4(a)(10) of this part. For Treasury debts referred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part, Treasury entities may authorize the Financial Management Service to send a notice informing the debtor that administrative wage garnishment will be initiated and how the debtor may request a hearing as described in § 5.4(a)(10) of this part. If a debtor makes a timely request for a hearing, administrative wage garnishment will not begin until a hearing is held and a decision is sent to the debtor. See 31 CFR 285.11(f)(4). If a debtor's hearing request is not timely, Treasury entities may suspend collection by administrative wage garnishment in accordance with the provisions of 31 CFR 285.11(f)(5). All travel expenses incurred by the debtor in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the debtor.
(b) This section does not apply to Federal salary offset, the process by which Treasury entities collect debts from the salaries of Federal employees (see § 5.12 of this part).

§ 5.14   How will Treasury entities report Treasury debts to credit bureaus?

Treasury entities shall report delinquent Treasury debts to credit bureaus in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3711(e), 31 CFR 901.4, and the Office of Management and Budget Circular A-129, “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Nontax Receivables.” For additional information, see Financial Management Service's “Guide to the Federal Credit Bureau Program,” which may be found at http://www.fms.treas.gov/debt. At least sixty (60) days prior to reporting a delinquent debt to a consumer reporting agency, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part. Treasury entities may authorize the Financial Management Service to report to credit bureaus those delinquent Treasury debts that have been transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part.
http://www.fms.treas.gov/debt.
At least sixty (60) days prior to reporting a delinquent debt to a consumer reporting agency, Treasury entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 5.4 of this part. Treasury entities may authorize the Financial Management Service to report to credit bureaus those delinquent Treasury debts that have been transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part.

§ 5.15   How will Treasury entities refer Treasury debts to private collection agencies?

Treasury entities will transfer delinquent Treasury debts to the Financial Management Service to obtain debt collection services provided by private collection agencies. See § 5.9 of this part.

§ 5.16   When will Treasury entities refer Treasury debts to the Department of Justice?

(a) Compromise or suspension or termination of collection activity. Treasury entities shall refer Treasury debts having a principal balance over $100,000, or such higher amount as authorized by the Attorney General, to the Department of Justice for approval of any compromise of a debt or suspension or termination of collection activity. See §§ 5.7 and 5.8 of this part; 31 CFR 902.1; 31 CFR 903.1.
Compromise or suspension or termination of collection activity.
Treasury entities shall refer Treasury debts having a principal balance over $100,000, or such higher amount as authorized by the Attorney General, to the Department of Justice for approval of any compromise of a debt or suspension or termination of collection activity.
See
§§ 5.7 and 5.8 of this part; 31 CFR 902.1; 31 CFR 903.1.
(b) Litigation. Treasury entities shall promptly refer to the Department of Justice for litigation delinquent Treasury debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with this part and that should not be compromised, and on which collection activity should not be suspended or terminated. See 31 CFR part 904. Treasury entities may authorize the Financial Management Service to refer to the Department of Justice for litigation those delinquent Treasury debts that have been transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part.
Litigation.
Treasury entities shall promptly refer to the Department of Justice for litigation delinquent Treasury debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with this part and that should not be compromised, and on which collection activity should not be suspended or terminated. See 31 CFR part 904. Treasury entities may authorize the Financial Management Service to refer to the Department of Justice for litigation those delinquent Treasury debts that have been transferred to the Financial Management Service under § 5.9 of this part.

§ 5.17   Will a debtor who owes a Treasury debt be ineligible for Federal loan assistance or Federal licenses, permits or privileges?

(a) Delinquent debtors barred from obtaining Federal loans or loan insurance or guaranties. As required by 31 U.S.C. 3720B and 31 CFR 901.6, Treasury entities will not extend financial assistance in the form of a loan, loan guarantee, or loan insurance to any person delinquent on a debt owed to a Federal agency. This prohibition does not apply to disaster loans. Treasury entities may extend credit after the delinquency has been resolved. See 31 CFR 285.13 for standards defining when a “delinquency” is “resolved” for purposes of this prohibition.
Delinquent debtors barred from obtaining Federal loans or loan insurance or guaranties.
As required by 31 U.S.C. 3720B and 31 CFR 901.6, Treasury entities will not extend financial assistance in the form of a loan, loan guarantee, or loan insurance to any person delinquent on a debt owed to a Federal agency. This prohibition does not apply to disaster loans. Treasury entities may extend credit after the delinquency has been resolved. See 31 CFR 285.13 for standards defining when a “delinquency” is “resolved” for purposes of this prohibition.
(b) Suspension or revocation of eligibility for licenses, permits, or privileges. Unless prohibited by law, Treasury entities should suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or other privileges for any inexcusable or willful failure of a debtor to pay a debt. The Treasury entity responsible for distributing the licenses, permits, or other privileges will establish policies and procedures governing suspension and revocation for delinquent debtors. If applicable, Treasury entities will advise the debtor in the notice required by § 5.4 of this part of the Treasury entities' ability to suspend or revoke licenses, permits or privileges. See § 5.4(a)(16) of this part.
Suspension or revocation of eligibility for licenses, permits, or privileges.
Unless prohibited by law, Treasury entities should suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or other privileges for any inexcusable or willful failure of a debtor to pay a debt. The Treasury entity responsible for distributing the licenses, permits, or other privileges will establish policies and procedures governing suspension and revocation for delinquent debtors. If applicable, Treasury entities will advise the debtor in the notice required by § 5.4 of this part of the Treasury entities' ability to suspend or revoke licenses, permits or privileges.
See
§ 5.4(a)(16) of this part.

§ 5.18   How does a debtor request a special review based on a change in circumstances such as catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability?

(a) Material change in circumstances. A debtor who owes a Treasury debt may, at any time, request a special review by the applicable Treasury entity of the amount of any offset, administrative wage garnishment, or voluntary payment, based on materially changed circumstances beyond the control of the debtor such as, but not limited to, catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability.
Material change in circumstances.
A debtor who owes a Treasury debt may, at any time, request a special review by the applicable Treasury entity of the amount of any offset, administrative wage garnishment, or voluntary payment, based on materially changed circumstances beyond the control of the debtor such as, but not limited to, catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability.
(b) Inability to pay. For purposes of this section, in determining whether an involuntary or voluntary payment would prevent the debtor from meeting essential subsistence expenses (costs incurred for food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care), the debtor shall submit a detailed statement and supporting documents for the debtor, his or her spouse, and dependents, indicating:
Inability to pay.
For purposes of this section, in determining whether an involuntary or voluntary payment would prevent the debtor from meeting essential subsistence expenses (costs incurred for food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care), the debtor shall submit a detailed statement and supporting documents for the debtor, his or her spouse, and dependents, indicating:
(1) Income from all sources;
(2) Assets;
(3) Liabilities;
(4) Number of dependents;
(5) Expenses for food, housing, clothing, and transportation;
(6) Medical expenses; and
(7) Exceptional expenses, if any.
(c) Alternative payment arrangement. If the debtor requests a special review under this section, the debtor shall submit an alternative proposed payment schedule and a statement to the Treasury entity collecting the debt, with supporting documents, showing why the current offset, garnishment or repayment schedule imposes an extreme financial hardship on the debtor. The Treasury entity will evaluate the statement and documentation and determine whether the current offset, garnishment, or repayment schedule imposes extreme financial hardship on the debtor. The Treasury entity shall notify the debtor in writing of such determination, including, if appropriate, a revised offset, garnishment, or payment schedule. If the special review results in a revised offset, garnishment, or repayment schedule, the Treasury entity will notify the appropriate agency or other persons about the new terms.
Alternative payment arrangement.
If the debtor requests a special review under this section, the debtor shall submit an alternative proposed payment schedule and a statement to the Treasury entity collecting the debt, with supporting documents, showing why the current offset, garnishment or repayment schedule imposes an extreme financial hardship on the debtor. The Treasury entity will evaluate the statement and documentation and determine whether the current offset, garnishment, or repayment schedule imposes extreme financial hardship on the debtor. The Treasury entity shall notify the debtor in writing of such determination, including, if appropriate, a revised offset, garnishment, or payment schedule. If the special review results in a revised offset, garnishment, or repayment schedule, the Treasury entity will notify the appropriate agency or other persons about the new terms.

§ 5.19   Will Treasury entities issue a refund if money is erroneously collected on a debt?

Treasury entities shall promptly refund to a debtor any amount collected on a Treasury debt when the debt is waived or otherwise found not to be owed to the United States, or as otherwise required by law. Refunds under this part shall not bear interest unless required by law.

Subpart C—Procedures for Offset of Treasury Department Payments To Collect Debts Owed to Other Federal Agencies


§ 5.20   How do other Federal agencies use the offset process to collect debts from payments issued by a Treasury entity?

(a) Offset of Treasury entity payments to collect debts owed to other Federal agencies. (1) In most cases, Federal agencies submit eligible debts to the Treasury Offset Program to collect delinquent debts from payments issued by Treasury entities and other Federal agencies, a process known as “centralized offset.” When centralized offset is not available or appropriate, any Federal agency may ask a Treasury entity (when acting as a “payment agency”) to collect a debt owed to such agency by offsetting funds payable to a debtor by the Treasury entity, including salary payments issued to Treasury entity employees. This section and § 5.21 of this subpart C apply when a Federal agency asks a Treasury entity to offset a payment issued by the Treasury entity to a person who owes a debt to the United States.
Offset of Treasury entity payments to collect debts owed to other Federal agencies.
(1) In most cases, Federal agencies submit eligible debts to the Treasury Offset Program to collect delinquent debts from payments issued by Treasury entities and other Federal agencies, a process known as “centralized offset.” When centralized offset is not available or appropriate, any Federal agency may ask a Treasury entity (when acting as a “payment agency”) to collect a debt owed to such agency by offsetting funds payable to a debtor by the Treasury entity, including salary payments issued to Treasury entity employees. This section and § 5.21 of this subpart C apply when a Federal agency asks a Treasury entity to offset a payment issued by the Treasury entity to a person who owes a debt to the United States.
(2) This subpart C does not apply to Treasury debts. See §§ 5.10 through 5.12 of this part for offset procedures applicable to Treasury debts.
See
§§ 5.10 through 5.12 of this part for offset procedures applicable to Treasury debts.
(3) This subpart C does not apply to the collection of non-Treasury debts through tax refund offset. See 31 CFR 285.2 for tax refund offset procedures.
See
31 CFR 285.2 for tax refund offset procedures.
(b) Administrative offset (including salary offset); certification. A Treasury entity will initiate a requested offset only upon receipt of written certification from the creditor agency that the debtor owes the past-due, legally enforceable debt in the amount stated, and that the creditor agency has fully complied with all applicable due process and other requirements contained in 31 U.S.C. 3716, 5 U.S.C. 5514, and the creditor agency's regulations, as applicable. Offsets will continue until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the creditor agency.
Administrative offset (including salary offset); certification.
A Treasury entity will initiate a requested offset only upon receipt of written certification from the creditor agency that the debtor owes the past-due, legally enforceable debt in the amount stated, and that the creditor agency has fully complied with all applicable due process and other requirements contained in 31 U.S.C. 3716, 5 U.S.C. 5514, and the creditor agency's regulations, as applicable. Offsets will continue until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the creditor agency.
(c) Where a creditor agency makes requests for offset. Requests for offset under this section shall be sent to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, ATTN: Deputy Chief Financial Officer, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Attention: Metropolitan Square, Room 6228, Washington, DC 20220. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer will forward the request to the appropriate Treasury entity for processing in accordance with this subpart C.
Where a creditor agency makes requests for offset.
Requests for offset under this section shall be sent to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, ATTN: Deputy Chief Financial Officer, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Attention: Metropolitan Square, Room 6228, Washington, DC 20220. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer will forward the request to the appropriate Treasury entity for processing in accordance with this subpart C.
(d) Incomplete certification. A Treasury entity will return an incomplete debt certification to the creditor agency with notice that the creditor agency must comply with paragraph (b) of this section before action will be taken to collect a debt from a payment issued by a Treasury entity.
Incomplete certification.
A Treasury entity will return an incomplete debt certification to the creditor agency with notice that the creditor agency must comply with paragraph (b) of this section before action will be taken to collect a debt from a payment issued by a Treasury entity.
(e) Review. A Treasury entity is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.
Review.
A Treasury entity is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.
(f) When Treasury entities will not comply with offset request. A Treasury entity will comply with the offset request of another agency unless the Treasury entity determines that the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States, or would otherwise be contrary to law.
When Treasury entities will not comply with offset request.
A Treasury entity will comply with the offset request of another agency unless the Treasury entity determines that the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States, or would otherwise be contrary to law.
(g) Multiple debts. When two or more creditor agencies are seeking offsets from payments made to the same person, or when two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the Treasury entity that has been asked to offset the payments may determine the order in which the debts will be collected or whether one or more debts should be collected by offset simultaneously.
Multiple debts.
When two or more creditor agencies are seeking offsets from payments made to the same person, or when two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the Treasury entity that has been asked to offset the payments may determine the order in which the debts will be collected or whether one or more debts should be collected by offset simultaneously.
(h) Priority of debts owed to Treasury entity. For purposes of this section, debts owed to a Treasury entity generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies. The Treasury entity that has been asked to offset the payments may determine whether to pay debts owed to other agencies before paying a debt owed to a Treasury entity. The Treasury entity that has been asked to offset the payments will determine the order in which the debts will be collected based on the best interests of the United States.
Priority of debts owed to Treasury entity.
For purposes of this section, debts owed to a Treasury entity generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies. The Treasury entity that has been asked to offset the payments may determine whether to pay debts owed to other agencies before paying a debt owed to a Treasury entity. The Treasury entity that has been asked to offset the payments will determine the order in which the debts will be collected based on the best interests of the United States.

§ 5.21   What does a Treasury entity do upon receipt of a request to offset the salary of a Treasury entity employee to collect a debt owed by the employee to another Federal agency?

(a) Notice to the Treasury employee. When a Treasury entity receives proper certification of a debt owed by one of its employees, the Treasury entity will begin deductions from the employee's pay at the next officially established pay interval. The Treasury entity will send a written notice to the employee indicating that a certified debt claim has been received from the creditor agency, the amount of the debt claimed to be owed by the creditor agency, the date deductions from salary will begin, and the amount of such deductions.
Notice to the Treasury employee.
When a Treasury entity receives proper certification of a debt owed by one of its employees, the Treasury entity will begin deductions from the employee's pay at the next officially established pay interval. The Treasury entity will send a written notice to the employee indicating that a certified debt claim has been received from the creditor agency, the amount of the debt claimed to be owed by the creditor agency, the date deductions from salary will begin, and the amount of such deductions.
(b) Amount of deductions from Treasury employee's salary. The amount deducted under § 5.20(b) of this part will be the lesser of the amount of the debt certified by the creditor agency or an amount up to 15% of the debtor's disposable pay. Deductions shall continue until the Treasury entity knows that the debt is paid in full or until otherwise instructed by the creditor agency. Alternatively, the amount offset may be an amount agreed upon, in writing, by the debtor and the creditor agency. See § 5.12(g) (salary offset process).
Amount of deductions from Treasury employee's salary.
The amount deducted under § 5.20(b) of this part will be the lesser of the amount of the debt certified by the creditor agency or an amount up to 15% of the debtor's disposable pay. Deductions shall continue until the Treasury entity knows that the debt is paid in full or until otherwise instructed by the creditor agency. Alternatively, the amount offset may be an amount agreed upon, in writing, by the debtor and the creditor agency.
See
§ 5.12(g) (salary offset process).
(c) When the debtor is no longer employed by the Treasury entity—(1) Offset of final and subsequent payments. If a Treasury entity employee retires or resigns or if his or her employment ends before collection of the debt is complete, the Treasury entity will continue to offset, under 31 U.S.C. 3716, up to 100% of an employee's subsequent payments until the debt is paid or otherwise resolved. Such payments include a debtor's final salary payment, lump-sum leave payment, and other payments payable to the debtor by the Treasury entity. See 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 5 CFR 550.1104(l) and 550.1104(m).
When the debtor is no longer employed by the Treasury entity
—(1)
Offset of final and subsequent payments.
If a Treasury entity employee retires or resigns or if his or her employment ends before collection of the debt is complete, the Treasury entity will continue to offset, under 31 U.S.C. 3716, up to 100% of an employee's subsequent payments until the debt is paid or otherwise resolved. Such payments include a debtor's final salary payment, lump-sum leave payment, and other payments payable to the debtor by the Treasury entity.
See
31 U.S.C. 3716 and 5 CFR 550.1104(l) and 550.1104(m).
(2) Notice to the creditor agency. If the employee is separated from the Treasury entity before the debt is paid in full, the Treasury entity will certify to the creditor agency the total amount of its collection. If the Treasury entity is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, the Treasury entity will provide written notice to the agency making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that the provisions of 5 CFR 550.1109 have been fully complied with. The creditor agency is responsible for submitting a certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before collection may begin. Generally, creditor agencies will collect such monies through the Treasury Offset Program as described in § 5.9(c) of this part.
Notice to the creditor agency.
If the employee is separated from the Treasury entity before the debt is paid in full, the Treasury entity will certify to the creditor agency the total amount of its collection. If the Treasury entity is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, the Treasury entity will provide written notice to the agency making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that the provisions of 5 CFR 550.1109 have been fully complied with. The creditor agency is responsible for submitting a certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before collection may begin. Generally, creditor agencies will collect such monies through the Treasury Offset Program as described in § 5.9(c) of this part.
(3) Notice to the debtor. The Treasury entity will provide to the debtor a copy of any notices sent to the creditor agency under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
Notice to the debtor.
The Treasury entity will provide to the debtor a copy of any notices sent to the creditor agency under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d) When the debtor transfers to another Federal agency—(1) Notice to the creditor agency. If the debtor transfers to another Federal agency before the debt is paid in full, the Treasury entity will notify the creditor agency and will certify the total amount of its collection on the debt. The Treasury entity will provide a copy of the certification to the creditor agency. The creditor agency is responsible for submitting a certified claim to the debtor's new employing agency before collection may begin.
When the debtor transfers to another Federal agency
—(1)
Notice to the creditor agency.
If the debtor transfers to another Federal agency before the debt is paid in full, the Treasury entity will notify the creditor agency and will certify the total amount of its collection on the debt. The Treasury entity will provide a copy of the certification to the creditor agency. The creditor agency is responsible for submitting a certified claim to the debtor's new employing agency before collection may begin.
(2) Notice to the debtor. The Treasury entity will provide to the debtor a copy of any notices and certifications sent to the creditor agency under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
Notice to the debtor.
The Treasury entity will provide to the debtor a copy of any notices and certifications sent to the creditor agency under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e) Request for hearing official. A Treasury entity will provide a hearing official upon the creditor agency's request with respect to a Treasury entity employee. See 5 CFR 550.1107(a).
Request for hearing official.
A Treasury entity will provide a hearing official upon the creditor agency's request with respect to a Treasury entity employee.
See
5 CFR 550.1107(a).

Appendix A to Part 5—Treasury Directive 34-01—Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments

Treasury Directive 34-01
Date: July 12, 2000.
Date:
July 12, 2000.
Sunset Review: July 12, 2004.
Sunset Review:
July 12, 2004.
Subject: Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments.
Subject:
Waiving Claims Against Treasury Employees for Erroneous Payments.
1. Purpose
This Directive establishes the Department of the Treasury's policies and procedures for waiving claims by the Government against an employee for erroneous payments of: (1) Pay and allowances (e.g., health and life insurance) and (2) travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances.
2. Background
a. 5 U.S.C. § 5584 authorizes the waiver of claims by the United States in whole or in part against an employee arising out of erroneous payments of pay and allowances, travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances. A waiver may be considered when collection of the claim would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States provided that there does not exist, in connection with the claim, an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim.
b. The General Accounting Office Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-316), Title I, § 103(d), enacted October 19, 1996, amended 5 U.S.C. § 5584 by transferring the authority to waive claims for erroneous payments exceeding $1,500 from the Comptroller General of the United States to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). OMB subsequently redelegated this waiver authority to the executive agency that made the erroneous payment. The authority to waive claims not exceeding $1,500, which was vested in the head of each agency prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 104-316, was unaffected by the Act.
c. 5 U.S.C. § 5514 authorizes the head of each agency, upon a determination that an employee is indebted to the United States for debts to which the United States is entitled to be repaid at the time of the determination, to deduct up to 15%, or a greater amount if agreed to by the employee, from the employee's pay at officially established pay intervals in order to repay the debt.
3. Delegation
a. The Deputy Assistant Secretary (Administration), the heads of bureaus, the Inspector General, and the Inspector General for Tax Administration are delegated the authority to waive, in whole or in part, a claim of the United States against an employee for an erroneous payment of pay and allowances, travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances, aggregating less than $5,000 per claim, in accordance with the limitations and standards in 5 U.S.C. § 5584.
b. Treasury's Deputy Chief Financial Officer is delegated the authority to waive, in whole or in part, a claim of the United States against an employee for an erroneous payment of pay and allowances, travel, transportation, and relocation expenses and allowances, aggregating $5,000 or more per claim, in accordance with the limitations and standards in 5 U.S.C. § 5584.
4. Appeals
a. Requests for waiver of claims aggregating less than $5,000 per claim which are denied in whole or in part may be appealed to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer for the Department of the Treasury.
b. Requests for waiver of claims aggregating $5,000 or more per claim which are denied in whole or in part may be appealed to the Assistant Secretary (Management)/Chief Financial Officer.
5. Redelegation
The Deputy Assistant Secretary (Administration), the heads of bureaus, the Inspector General, and the Inspector General for Tax Administration may redelegate their respective authority and responsibility in writing no lower than the bureau deputy chief financial officer unless authorized by Treasury's Deputy Chief Financial Officer. Copies of each redelegation shall be submitted to the Department's Deputy Chief Financial Officer.
6. Responsibilities
a. The Deputy Assistant Secretary (Administration), the heads of bureaus, the Inspector General, and the Inspector General for Tax Administration shall:
(1) Promptly notify an employee upon discovery of an erroneous payment to that employee;
(2) Promptly act to collect the erroneous overpayment, following established debt collection policies and procedures;
(3) Establish time frames for employees to request a waiver in writing and for the bureau to review the waiver request. These time frames must take into consideration the responsibilities of the United States to take prompt action to pursue enforced collection on overdue debts, which may arise from erroneous payments.
(4) Notify employees whose requests for waiver of claims aggregating less than $5,000 per claim are denied in whole or in part of the basis for the denial and the right to appeal the denial to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the Department of the Treasury. All such appeals shall:
(a) Be made in writing;
(b) Specify the basis for the appeal;
(c) Include a chronology of the events surrounding the erroneous payments;
(d) Include a statement regarding any mitigating factors; and
(e) Be submitted to the official who denied the waiver request no later than 60 days from receipt by the employee of written notice of the denial of the waiver; and
(f) Attach at least the following documents: the employee's original request for a waiver; the bureau's denial of the request; any personnel actions, e.g., promotions, demotions, step increases, etc. that relate to the overpayment.
(5) Forward to Treasury's Deputy Chief Financial Officer the appeal and supporting documentation, the bureau's recommendation as to why the appeal should be approved or denied; and a statement as to the action taken by the bureau to avoid a recurrence of the error.
(6) Pay a refund when appropriate if a waiver is granted;
(7) Fulfill all labor relations responsibilities when implementing this directive; and
(8) Fulfill any other responsibility of the agency imposed by 5 U.S.C. § 5584, or other applicable laws and regulations.
b. Treasury's Deputy Chief Financial Officer shall advise employees whose requests for waiver of claims aggregating $5,000 or more per claim are denied in whole or in part of the basis for the denial and the right to appeal the denial to the Assistant Secretary (Management)/Chief Financial Officer. All such appeals shall be in the format and contain the information and documentation described in subsection 6.a.(4), above. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer shall forward to Assistant Secretary (Management)/Chief Financial Officer the appeal and supporting documentation, his/her recommendation as to why the appeal should be approved or denied, and a statement obtained from the bureau from which the claim arose as to the action taken by the bureau to avoid a recurrence of the error.
7. Reporting Requirements
a. Each bureau, the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Administration) for Departmental Offices, the Inspector General, and the Inspector General for Tax Administration shall maintain a register of waiver actions subject to Departmental review. The register shall cover each fiscal year and be prepared by December 31 of each year for the preceding fiscal year. The register shall contain the following information:
(1) The total amount waived by the bureau;
(2) The number and dollar amount of waiver applications granted in full;
(3) The number and dollar amount of waiver applications granted in part and denied in part, and the dollar amount of each;
(4) The number and dollar amount of waiver applications denied in their entirety;
(5) The number of waiver applications referred to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer for initial action or for appeal;
(6) The dollar amount refunded as a result of waiver action by the bureau; and
(7) The dollar amount refunded as a result of waiver action by the Deputy Chief Financial Officer or the Assistant Secretary (Management)/Chief Financial Officer.
b. Each bureau, the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Administration) for Departmental Offices, the Inspector General, and the Inspector General for Tax Administration shall retain a written record of each waiver action for 6 years and 3 months. At a minimum, the written record shall contain:
(1) The bureau's summary of the events surrounding the erroneous payment;
(2) Any written comments submitted by the employee from whom collection is sought;
(3) An account of the waiver action taken and the reasons for such action; and
(4) Other pertinent information such as any action taken to refund amounts repaid.
8. Effect of Request for Waiver
A request for a waiver of a claim shall not affect an employee's opportunity under 5 U.S.C. § 5514(a)(2)(D) for a hearing on the determination of the agency concerning the existence or the amount of the debt, or the terms of the repayment schedule. A request by an employee for a hearing under 5 U.S.C. § 5514(a)(2)(D) shall not affect an employee's right to request a waiver of the claim. The determination whether to waive a claim may be made at the discretion of the deciding official either before or after a final decision is rendered pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 5514(a)(2)(D) concerning the existence or the amount of the debt, or the terms of the repayment schedule.
9. Guidelines for Determining Requests
a. A request for a waiver shall not be granted if the deciding official determines there exists, in connection with the claim, an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim. There are no exceptions to this rule for financial hardship or otherwise.
not
be granted if the deciding official determines there exists, in connection with the claim, an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim. There are no exceptions to this rule for financial hardship or otherwise.
(1) “Fault” exists if, in light of all the circumstances, it is determined that the employee knew or should have known that an error existed, but failed to take action to have it corrected. Fault can derive from an act or a failure to act. Unlike fraud, fault does not require a deliberate intent to deceive. Whether an employee should have known about an error in pay is determined from the perspective of a reasonable person. Pertinent considerations in finding fault include whether:
(a) The payment resulted from the employee's incorrect, but not fraudulent, statement that the employee should have known was incorrect;
(b) The payment resulted from the employee's failure to disclose material facts in the employee's possession which the employee should have known to be material; or
(c) The employee accepted a payment, which the employee knew or should have known to be erroneous.
(2) Every case must be examined in light of its particular facts. For example, where an employee is promoted to a higher grade but the step level for the employee's new grade is miscalculated, it may be appropriate to conclude that there is no fault on the employee's part because employees are not typically expected to be aware of and understand the rules regarding determination of step level upon promotion. On the other hand, a different conclusion as to fault potentially may be reached if the employee in question is a personnel specialist or an attorney who concentrates on personnel law.
b. If the deciding official finds an indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, then the request for a waiver must be denied.
c. If the deciding official finds no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the employee or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, the employee is not automatically entitled to a waiver. Before a waiver can be granted, the deciding official must also determine that collection of the claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States. Factors to consider when determining if collection of a claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States include, but are not limited to:
not
automatically entitled to a waiver. Before a waiver can be granted, the deciding official must also determine that collection of the claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States. Factors to consider when determining if collection of a claim against an employee would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interests of the United States include, but are not limited to:
(1) Whether collection of the claim would cause serious financial hardship to the employee from whom collection is sought.
(2) Whether, because of the erroneous payment, the employee either has relinquished a valuable right or changed positions for the worse, regardless of the employee's financial circumstances.
(a) To establish that a valuable right has been relinquished, it must be shown that the right was, in fact, valuable; that it cannot be regained; and that the action was based chiefly or solely on reliance on the overpayment.
(b) To establish that the employee's position has changed for the worse, it must be shown that the decision would not have been made but for the overpayment, and that the decision resulted in a loss.
(c) An example of a “detrimental reliance” would be a decision to sign a lease for a more expensive apartment based chiefly or solely upon reliance on an erroneous calculation of salary, and the funds spent for rent cannot be recovered.
(3) The cost of collecting the claim equals or exceeds the amount of the claim;
(4) The time elapsed between the erroneous payment and discovery of the error and notification of the employee;
(5) Whether failure to make restitution would result in unfair gain to the employee;
(6) Whether recovery of the claim would be unconscionable under the circumstances.
d. The burden is on the employee to demonstrate that collection of the claim would be against equity and good conscience and not in the best interest of the United States.
10. Authorities
a. 5 U.S.C. § 5584, “Claims for Overpayment of Pay and Allowances, and of Travel, Transportation and Relocation Expenses and Allowances.”
b. 31 U.S.C. § 3711, “Collection and Compromise.”
c. 31 U.S.C. § 3716, “Administrative Offset.”
d. 31 U.S.C. § 3717, “Interest and Penalty on Claims.”
e. 5 CFR Part 550, subpart K, “Collection by Offset from Indebted Government Employees.”
f. 31 CFR Part 5, subpart B, “Salary Offset.”
g. Determination with Respect to Transfer of Functions Pursuant to Public Law 104-316, OMB, December 17, 1996.
11. Cancellation
TD 34-01, “Waiver of Claims for Erroneous Payments,” dated October 25, 1995, is superseded.
12. Office of Primary Interest
Office of Accounting and Internal Control.

PART 6—APPLICATIONS FOR AWARDS UNDER THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT

[Authority:Sec. 203(a)(1), Pub. L. 96-481, 94 Stat. 2325 (5 U.S.C. 504(c)(1)).]
Authority:
Sec. 203(a)(1), Pub. L. 96-481, 94 Stat. 2325 (5 U.S.C. 504(c)(1)).
[Source:47 FR 20765, May 14, 1982, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
47 FR 20765, May 14, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 6.1   Purpose of these rules.

The Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504 (called “the Act” in this part), provides for the award of attorney fees and other expenses to eligible individuals and entities who are parties to certain administrative proceedings (called “adversary adjudications”) before agencies of the Government of the United States. An eligible party may receive an award when it prevails over an agency, unless the agency's position in the proceeding was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. The rules in this part describe the parties eligible for awards and the proceedings that are covered. They also explain how to apply for awards, and the procedures and standards that the Treasury Department will use to make them.

§ 6.2   When the Act applies.

The Act applies to any adversary adjudication pending before an agency at any time between October 1, 1981 and September 30, 1984. This includes proceedings begun before October 1, 1981, if final agency action has not been taken before that date, and proceedings pending on September 30, 1984, regardless of when they were initiated or when final agency action occurs.

§ 6.3   Proceedings covered.

The Act applies to adversary adjudications required to be conducted by the Treasury Department under 5 U.S.C. 554. Within the Treasury Department, these proceedings are:
(a) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: (1) Permit proceedings under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 204); (2) Permit proceedings under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 5171, 5271, 5713); (3) License and permit proceedings under the Federal Explosives Laws (18 U.S.C. 843).
(b) Comptroller of the Currency:
All proceedings conducted under 12 CFR part 19, subpart A.

§ 6.4   Eligibility of applicants.

(a) To be eligible for an award of attorney fees and other expenses under the Act, the applicant must be a party to the adversary adjudication for which it seeks an award. The term “party” is defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3). The applicant must show that it meets all conditions of eligibility set out in this subpart and has complied with the requirements in Subpart B of this part.
(b) The types of eligible applicants are as follows:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $1 million;
(2) The sole owner of an unincorporated business who has a net worth of not more than $5 million, including both personal and business interests, and not more than 500 employees;
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees;
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141(a)) with not more than 500 employees, or
(5) Any other partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization with a net worth of not more than $5 million and not more than 500 employees.
(c) For the purpose of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the proceeding was initiated.
(d) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered as an “individual” rather than a “sole owner of an unincorporated business” if the matter in controversy is primarily related to personal interests rather than to business interests.
(e) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. Part-time employees shall be included.
(f) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares of another business, or controls in any manner the election of a majority of that business's board of directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions, will be considered an affiliate of that business for purposes of this part, unless the adjudicative officer determines that such treatment would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of the Act in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In addition, the adjudicative officer may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
(g) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award.

§ 6.5   Standards for awards.

(a) A prevailing applicant may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred in connection with the final disposition of a proceeding, unless (1) the position of the agency was substantially justified, or (2) special circumstances make the award unjust. No presumption arises that the agency's position was not substantially justified simply because the agency did not prevail.
final
disposition of a proceeding, unless (1) the position of the agency was substantially justified, or (2) special circumstances make the award unjust. No presumption arises that the agency's position was not substantially justified simply because the agency did not prevail.
(b) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.

§ 6.6   Allowable fees and other expenses.

(a) The following fees and other expenses are allowable under the Act:
(1) Reasonable expenses of expert witnesses;
(2) Reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, or project which the agency finds necessary for the preparation of the party's case;
(3) Reasonable attorney or agent fees.
(b) The amount of fees awarded will be based upon the prevailing market rates for the kind and quality of services furnished, except that
(1) Compensation for an expert witness will not exceed the highest rate paid by the agency for expert witnesses; and
(2) Attorney or agent fees will not be in excess of $75 per hour.

§ 6.7   Delegations of authority.

The Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the Comptroller of the Currency are authorized to take final action on matters pertaining to the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504, in proceedings listed in § 6.3 under the respective bureau or office. The Secretary of the Treasury may by order delegate authority to take final action on matters pertaining to the Equal Access to Justice Act in particular cases to other subordinate officials.

Subpart B—Information Required From Applicants


§ 6.8   Contents of application.

(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act shall identify the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought. The application shall show that the applicant has prevailed and identify the position of the agency in the proceeding that the applicant alleges was not substantially justified. The application shall state the basis for the applicant's belief that the position was not substantially justified. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application shall also state the number of employees of the applicant and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.
(b) The application shall also include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $1 million (if an individual) or $5 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates). However, an applicant may omit this statement if:
(1) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section; or
(2) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).
(c) The application shall itemize the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.
(d) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes the agency to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.
(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer with respect to the eligibility of the applicant and by the attorney of the applicant with respect to fees and expenses sought. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1512-0444, for applications filed with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms)
(5 U.S.C. 552(a) (80 Stat. 383, as amended))
[[47 FR 20765, May 14, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 14944, Apr. 16, 1984]]

§ 6.9   Net worth exhibit.

(a) Each applicant except a qualified tax-exempt organization, or cooperative association must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates (as defined in § 6.4(f)) when the proceeding was initiated. In the case of national banking associations, “net worth” shall be considered to be the total capital and surplus as reported, in conformity with the applicable instructions and guidelines, on the bank's last Consolidated Report of Condition filed before the initiation of the underlying proceeding.
(b) The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this part. The adjudicative officer may require an applicant to file additional information to determine its eligibility for an award.

§ 6.10   Documentation of fees and expenses.

(a) The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses, including the cost of any study, engineering report, test, or project, for which an award is sought.
(b) The documentation shall include an affidavit from any attorney, agent, or expert witness representing or appearing in behalf of the party, stating the actual time expended and the rate at which fees and other expenses were computed and describing the specific services performed.
(1) The affidavit shall state the services performed. In order to establish the hourly rate, the affidavit shall state the hourly rate which is billed and paid by the majority of clients during the relevant time periods.
(2) If not hourly rate is paid by the majority of clients because, for instance, the attorney or agent represents most clients on a contingency basis, the attorney or agent shall provide information about two attorneys or agents with similar experience, who perform similar work, stating their hourly rate.
(c) The documentation shall also include a description of any expenses for which reimbursement is sought and a statement of the amounts paid and payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided.
(d) The adjudicative officer may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.

§ 6.11   When an application may be filed.

(a) An application may be filed whenever the applicant has prevailed in the proceeding but in no case later than 30 days after the agency's final disposition of the proceeding.
(b) If review or reconsideration is sought or taken of a decision as to which an applicant believes it has prevailed, proceedings for the award of fees shall be stayed pending final disposition of the underlying controversy.

Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications


§ 6.12   Filing and service of documents.

Any application for an award or other pleading or document related to an application shall be filed and served on all parties to the proceeding in the same manner as other pleadings in the proceeding.

§ 6.13   Answer to application.

(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel representing the agency against which an award is sought shall file an answer to the application.
(b) If agency counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 60 days and further extensions may be granted by the adjudicative officer upon request by agency counsel and the applicant.
(c) The answer shall explain any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of agency counsel's position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, agency counsel shall include with the answer supporting affidavits.

§ 6.14   Decision.

The adjudicative officer shall issue an initial decision on the application within 60 days after completion of proceedings on the application. The decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the agency's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust.

§ 6.15   Agency review.

Either the applicant or agency counsel may seek review of the initial decision on the fee application, or the agency may decide to review the decision on its own initiative. If neither the applicant nor agency counsel seeks a review and the agncy does not take review on its own initiative, the initial decision on the application shall become a final decision of the agency 30 days after it is issued. Whether to review a decision is a matter within the discretion of the agency. If review is taken, the agency will issue a final decision on the application or remand the application to the adjudicative officer for further proceedings.

§ 6.16   Judicial review.

Judicial review of final agency decisions on awards may be sought as provided in 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).

§ 6.17   Payment of award.

An applicant seeking payment of an award shall submit to the agency a copy of the agency's final decision granting the award, accompanied by a statement that the applicant will not seek review of the decision in the United States courts. An applicant shall be paid the amount awarded unless judicial review of the award or of the underlying decision of the adversary adjudication has been sought by the applicant or any other party to the proceeding.

PART 7—EMPLOYEE INVENTIONS

[Authority:80 Stat. 379; 5 U.S.C. 301, sec. 6, E.O. 10096; 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 292, as amended by E.O. 10930; 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 456.]
Authority:
80 Stat. 379; 5 U.S.C. 301, sec. 6, E.O. 10096; 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 292, as amended by E.O. 10930; 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 456.
[Source:33 FR 10088, July 13, 1968, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
33 FR 10088, July 13, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

§ 7.1   Purpose.

Provisions defining the right, title, and interest of the Government in and to an invention made by a Government employee under various circumstances and the duties of Government agencies with respect thereto are set forth in Executive Order 10096, 15 FR 389, as amended (35 U.S.C. 266 note). Further definition of the circumstances under which the Government will acquire the right to a patent in such an invention or a nonexclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free license in the invention, and the procedures for the determination of these interests, are set forth in the regulations issued under that Executive order by the Patent Office, 37 CFR part 100. The purpose of this part 7 is to implement for the Treasury Department the foregoing Executive order and regulations of the Patent Office by (a) bringing to the attention of Treasury employees the law and procedure governing their rights to, and interest in, inventions made by them, (b) defining responsibility within the Department for making the necessary determinations, and, (c) establishing internal procedures for action in conformity with the Executive order and the Patent Office regulations.

§ 7.2   Responsibilities of the Department.

The responsibilities of the Treasury Department are to determine initially (a) the occurrence of an invention by an employee, (b) his rights in the invention and the rights of the Government therein, and (c) whether patent protection will be sought in the United States by the Department, and to furnish the required reports to the Patent Office.

§ 7.3   Responsibilities of heads of offices.

(a) Heads of bureaus or offices in the Department shall be responsible for determining initially whether the results of research, development, or other activity of an employee within that bureau or office constitute an invention which falls within the purview of Executive Order 10096, as amended, and is to be handled in accordance with the regulations in this part.
(b) Heads of bureaus or offices are responsible for obtaining from the employee the necessary information and, if the determination under paragraph (a) of this section is affirmative, preparing on behalf of the bureau or office a description of the invention and its relationship to the employee's duties and work assignments.
(c) Heads of bureaus or offices, after such examination and investigation as may be necessary, shall refer to the General Counsel all information obtained concerning the invention and such determination as the head of the bureau or office has made with respect to the character of the activity as an invention. These reports shall include any determination as to the giving of a cash award to the employee for his performance relating to that invention.

§ 7.4   Responsibilities of the General Counsel.

(a) The General Counsel shall be responsible for determining, subject to review by the Commissioner of Patents, the respective rights of the Government and of the inventor in and to any invention made by an employee of the Department.
(b) On the basis of the foregoing determination, the General Counsel shall determine whether patent protection will be sought by the Department for such an invention.
(c) The General Counsel will prepare and furnish to the Patent Office the reports required by the regulations of that Office and will serve as the liaison officer between the Department and the Commissioner of Patents.

§ 7.5   Responsibilities of employees.

All employees are required to report to the heads of their bureaus or offices any result of research, development, or other activity on their part which may constitute an invention and the circumstances under which this possible invention came into being.

§ 7.6   Effect of awards.

The acceptance by an employee of a cash award for performance which constitutes an invention shall, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 4502(c), constitute an agreement that the use by the Government of the idea, method, or device for which the award is made does not form the basis of any further claim against the Government by the employee, his heirs or assigns.

§ 7.7   Appeals.

(a) Any employee who is aggrieved by a determination made by the head of his bureau or office under this part may obtain a review of the determination by filing an appeal with the General Counsel within 30 days after receiving the notice of the determination complained of.
(b) Any employee who is aggrieved by a determination made by the General Counsel under this part may obtain a review of the determination by filing a written appeal with the Commissioner of Patents within 30 days after receiving notice of the determination complained of, or within such longer period as the Commissioner may provide. The appeal to the Commissioner shall be processed in accordance with the provisions in the regulations of the Patent Office for an appeal from an agency determination.

§ 7.8   Delegation.

The heads of bureaus or offices and the General Counsel may delegate, as appropriate, the performance of the responsibilities assigned to them under this part.

PART 8—PRACTICE BEFORE THE BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TOBACCO AND FIREARMS

[Authority:Sec. 3, 23 Stat. 258 (31 U.S.C. 1026); 5 U.S.C. 301, 500, 551-559; and Reorganization Plan No. 26 of 1950, 15 FR 4935, 64 Stat. 1280, as amended.]
Authority:
Sec. 3, 23 Stat. 258 (31 U.S.C. 1026); 5 U.S.C. 301, 500, 551-559; and Reorganization Plan No. 26 of 1950, 15 FR 4935, 64 Stat. 1280, as amended.
[Source:42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Requirements


§ 8.1   Scope.

This part contains rules governing the recognition of attorneys, certified public accountants, enrolled practitioners, and other persons representing clients before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.

§ 8.2   Persons who may practice.

(a) Attorneys. Any attorney who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, may practice before the Bureau upon filing a written declaration with the Bureau, that he or she is currently qualified as an attorney and is authorized to represent the particular party on whose behalf he or she acts.
Attorneys.
Any attorney who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, may practice before the Bureau upon filing a written declaration with the Bureau, that he or she is currently qualified as an attorney and is authorized to represent the particular party on whose behalf he or she acts.
(b) Certified public accountants. Any certified public accountant who is not currently under suspension or disbarment before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, may practice before the Bureau upon filing a written declaration with the Bureau, that he or she is currently qualified as a certified public accountant and is authorized to represent the particular party on whose behalf he or she acts.
Certified public accountants.
Any certified public accountant who is not currently under suspension or disbarment before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, may practice before the Bureau upon filing a written declaration with the Bureau, that he or she is currently qualified as a certified public accountant and is authorized to represent the particular party on whose behalf he or she acts.
(c) Enrollment practitioners. Any person enrolled as a practitioner under the provisions of subpart C of this part and who is not under suspension or disbarment from enrollment may practice before the Bureau.
Enrollment practitioners.
Any person enrolled as a practitioner under the provisions of subpart C of this part and who is not under suspension or disbarment from enrollment may practice before the Bureau.
(d) Limited practitioners. Any person qualified for limited practice without enrollment under the provisions of § 8.29 may practice before the Bureau.
Limited practitioners.
Any person qualified for limited practice without enrollment under the provisions of § 8.29 may practice before the Bureau.
(e) Restrictions on Government officers and employees. Any officer or employee of the United States in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government, or in any agency of the United States, including the District of Columbia, who is otherwise eligible to practice under the provisions of this part, may represent parties before the Bureau when doing so in the conduct of his or her official duties. A Government officer or employee may not otherwise practice before the Bureau except that, subject to the requirements of 18 U.S.C. 205, he or she may represent a member of his or her immediate family or a person or estate for which he or she serves as guardian, executor, administrator, trustee or other personal fiduciary. Member of Congress or Resident Commissioners (elect or serving) may not practice before the Bureau in connection with any matter for which they directly or indirectly seek any compensation.
Restrictions on Government officers and employees.
Any officer or employee of the United States in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government, or in any agency of the United States, including the District of Columbia, who is otherwise eligible to practice under the provisions of this part, may represent parties before the Bureau when doing so in the conduct of his or her official duties. A Government officer or employee may not otherwise practice before the Bureau except that, subject to the requirements of 18 U.S.C. 205, he or she may represent a member of his or her immediate family or a person or estate for which he or she serves as guardian, executor, administrator, trustee or other personal fiduciary. Member of Congress or Resident Commissioners (elect or serving) may not practice before the Bureau in connection with any matter for which they directly or indirectly seek any compensation.
(f) Restrictions on State officers and employees. No officer or employee of any State, or subdivision thereof, whose official responsibilities require him or her to pass upon, investigate, or deal with any State law or regulation concerning alcohol, tobacco, firearms, explosives matters or wagering, may practice before the Bureau if his or her official responsibility may disclose pertinent facts or information relating to matters administered by the Bureau.
Restrictions on State officers and employees.
No officer or employee of any State, or subdivision thereof, whose official responsibilities require him or her to pass upon, investigate, or deal with any State law or regulation concerning alcohol, tobacco, firearms, explosives matters or wagering, may practice before the Bureau if his or her official responsibility may disclose pertinent facts or information relating to matters administered by the Bureau.
(g) Customhouse brokers. Customhouse brokers, licensed by the Commissioner of Customs according to 19 CFR part 111, may represent a party for whom they have acted as a customhouse broker before the Bureau with respect to matters relating to the importation or exportation of merchandise under customs or intenal revenue laws.
Customhouse brokers.
Customhouse brokers, licensed by the Commissioner of Customs according to 19 CFR part 111, may represent a party for whom they have acted as a customhouse broker before the Bureau with respect to matters relating to the importation or exportation of merchandise under customs or intenal revenue laws.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1512-0418)
(18 U.S.C. 203, 205; 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (80 Stat. 383, as amended))
[[42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 14944, Apr. 16, 1984]]

§ 8.3   Conference and practice requirements.

Conference and practice requrements of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, including requirements for powers of attorney are set forth in:
(a) 26 CFR part 601, subpart E (or those regulations as recodified in 27 CFR part 71 subsequent to the effective date of these regulations, 31 CFR part 8) with respect to all representations before the Bureau except those concerning license or permit proceedings;
(b) 27 CFR part 200 with respect to proceedings concerning permits issued under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act or the Internal Revenue Code;
(c) 27 CFR 47.44 with respect to proceedings concerning licenses issued under the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778);
(d) 27 CFR part 178, subpart E, with respect to proceedings concerning licenses issued under the Gun Control Act of 1968 (18 U.S.C. Chapter 44); and
(e) 27 CFR part 181, subpart E, with respect to proceedings concerning licenses or permits issued under the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 (18 U.S.C. Chapter 40).

§ 8.4   Director of Practice.

(a) Appointment. The Secretary shall appoint the Director of Practice. In the event of the absence of the Director of Practice or a vacancy in that office, the Secretary shall designate an officer or employee of the Treasury Department to act as Director of Practice.
Appointment.
The Secretary shall appoint the Director of Practice. In the event of the absence of the Director of Practice or a vacancy in that office, the Secretary shall designate an officer or employee of the Treasury Department to act as Director of Practice.
(b) Duties. The Director of Practice, Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall: Act upon appeals from decisions of the Director denying applications for enrollment to practice before the Bureau; institute and provide for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings relating to attorneys, certified public accountants, and enrolled practitioners; make inquiries with respect to matters under his or her jurisdiction; and perform other duties as are necessary or appropriate to carry out his or her functions under this part or as are prescribed by the Secretary.
Duties.
The Director of Practice, Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall: Act upon appeals from decisions of the Director denying applications for enrollment to practice before the Bureau; institute and provide for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings relating to attorneys, certified public accountants, and enrolled practitioners; make inquiries with respect to matters under his or her jurisdiction; and perform other duties as are necessary or appropriate to carry out his or her functions under this part or as are prescribed by the Secretary.

§ 8.5   Records.

(a) Availability. Registers of all persons admitted to practice before the Bureau, and of all persons disbarred or suspended from practice, which are required to be maintained by the director under the provisions of § 8.27, will be available for public inspection at the Office of the Director. Other records may be disclosed upon specific request in accordance with the disclosure regulations of the Bureau (27 CFR part 71) and the Office of the Secretary.
Availability.
Registers of all persons admitted to practice before the Bureau, and of all persons disbarred or suspended from practice, which are required to be maintained by the director under the provisions of § 8.27, will be available for public inspection at the Office of the Director. Other records may be disclosed upon specific request in accordance with the disclosure regulations of the Bureau (27 CFR part 71) and the Office of the Secretary.
(b) Disciplinary proceedings. The Director, may grant a request by an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner to make public a hearing in a disciplinary proceeding, conducted under the provisions of subpart E of this part concerning the attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practioner, and to make the record of the proceeding available for public inspection by interested persons, if an agreement is reached by stipulation in advance to prevent disclosure of any information which is confidential, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Disciplinary proceedings.
The Director, may grant a request by an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner to make public a hearing in a disciplinary proceeding, conducted under the provisions of subpart E of this part concerning the attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practioner, and to make the record of the proceeding available for public inspection by interested persons, if an agreement is reached by stipulation in advance to prevent disclosure of any information which is confidential, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

§ 8.6   Special orders.

The secretary reserves the power to issue special orders as he or she may deem proper in any cases within the scope of this part.

Subpart B—Definitions


§ 8.11   Meaning of terms.

As used in this part, terms shall have the meaning given in this section. Words in the plural shall include the singular, and vice versa. The terms include and including do not exclude things not enumerated which are in the same general class.
include
and
including
do not exclude things not enumerated which are in the same general class.
Administrative Law Judge. The person appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105, designated to preside over any administrative proceedings under this part.
Administrative Law Judge.
The person appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105, designated to preside over any administrative proceedings under this part.
Attorney. A person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State, possession, territory, Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
Attorney.
A person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State, possession, territory, Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
Bureau. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20226.
Bureau.
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20226.
Certified public accountant. Any person who is qualified to practice as a certified public accountant in any State, possession, territory, Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
Certified public accountant.
Any person who is qualified to practice as a certified public accountant in any State, possession, territory, Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
CFR. The Code of Federal Regulations.
CFR.
The Code of Federal Regulations.
Director. The Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.
Director.
The Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.
Enrolled practitioner. Any person enrolled to practice before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms pursuant to Subpart C of this part.
Enrolled practitioner.
Any person enrolled to practice before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms pursuant to Subpart C of this part.
Practice before the Bureau. This comprehends all matters connected with presentation to the Bureau or any of its officers or employees relating to a client's rights, privileges or liabilities under laws or regulations administered by the Bureau. Presentations include the preparation and filing of necessary documents, correspondence with and communications to the Bureau, and the representation of a client at conferences, hearings, and meetings. Preparation of a tax return, appearance of an individual as a witness for any party, or furnishing information at the request of the Bureau of any of its officers or employees is not considered practice before the Bureau.
Practice before the Bureau.
This comprehends all matters connected with presentation to the Bureau or any of its officers or employees relating to a client's rights, privileges or liabilities under laws or regulations administered by the Bureau. Presentations include the preparation and filing of necessary documents, correspondence with and communications to the Bureau, and the representation of a client at conferences, hearings, and meetings. Preparation of a tax return, appearance of an individual as a witness for any party, or furnishing information at the request of the Bureau of any of its officers or employees is not considered practice before the Bureau.
Secretary. The Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary.
The Secretary of the Treasury.
U.S.C. The United States Code.
U.S.C.
The United States Code.

Subpart C—Enrollment Procedures


§ 8.21   Eligibility for enrollment.

(a) General qualifications. The Director may grant enrollment to practice to any person who has not engaged in conduct which would justify the disbarment or suspension of any attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practioner. Each person shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that he or she possesses the necessary technical qualifications to enable him or her to render valuable service before the Bureau, and that he or she is otherwise competent to advise and assists in the presentation of matters before the Bureau.
General qualifications.
The Director may grant enrollment to practice to any person who has not engaged in conduct which would justify the disbarment or suspension of any attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practioner. Each person shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that he or she possesses the necessary technical qualifications to enable him or her to render valuable service before the Bureau, and that he or she is otherwise competent to advise and assists in the presentation of matters before the Bureau.
(b) Technical qualifications. The Director may grant enrollment to practice only to persons possessing technical knowledge of the laws and regulations administered by the Bureau.
Technical qualifications.
The Director may grant enrollment to practice only to persons possessing technical knowledge of the laws and regulations administered by the Bureau.
(1) Minimum criteria required of an enrolled practioner will consist of: 5 years employment with the Treasury Department in a responsible position which would familiarize the person with applicable laws and regulations; or 5 years employment in a regulated industry in a responsible position which would familiarize the person with applicable laws and regulations; or possession of a law degree; or other significant experience such as the prior respresentation of persons before the Internal Revenue Service or the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
(2) An enrolled paractioner may demonstrate technical knowledge in one or more of the several areas of laws and regulations administered by the Bureau (alcohol, tobacco firearms, or explosives matters).
(c) Natural persons. Enrollment to practice may only be granted to natural persons who have become 18 years of age.
Natural persons.
Enrollment to practice may only be granted to natural persons who have become 18 years of age.
(d) Attorneys, certified public accountants. Enrollment if not available to persons who are attorneys or certified public accountants who qualify to practice without enrollment under § 8.2 (a) or (b).
Attorneys, certified public accountants.
Enrollment if not available to persons who are attorneys or certified public accountants who qualify to practice without enrollment under § 8.2 (a) or (b).
[[42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977; 42 FR 36455, July 15, 1977]]

§ 8.22   Application for enrollment.

(a) Information to be furnished. An applicant for enrollment to practice shall state his or her name, address, and business address, citizenship, and age on the application. The applicant shall also state if he or she has ever been suspended or disbarred as an attorney or certified public accountant, or if the applicant's right to practice has ever been revoked by any court, commission, or administrative agency in any jurisdiction. The applicant shall set forth his or her technical qualifications as required by § 8.21(b) which enable him or her to render valuable service before the Bureau. The applicant shall indicate which area or areas of Bureau matters in which he or she desires to practice (alcohol, tobacco, firearms, or explosives matters).
Information to be furnished.
An applicant for enrollment to practice shall state his or her name, address, and business address, citizenship, and age on the application. The applicant shall also state if he or she has ever been suspended or disbarred as an attorney or certified public accountant, or if the applicant's right to practice has ever been revoked by any court, commission, or administrative agency in any jurisdiction. The applicant shall set forth his or her technical qualifications as required by § 8.21(b) which enable him or her to render valuable service before the Bureau. The applicant shall indicate which area or areas of Bureau matters in which he or she desires to practice (alcohol, tobacco, firearms, or explosives matters).
(b) Fee. Each application for enrollment will be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $25, payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. This fee will be retained by the United States whether or not the applicant is granted enrollment. Agents who are enrolled to practice before the Internal Revenue Service prior to September 27, 1977, need not include this fee and should indicate their enrollment number on the application.
Fee.
Each application for enrollment will be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $25, payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. This fee will be retained by the United States whether or not the applicant is granted enrollment. Agents who are enrolled to practice before the Internal Revenue Service prior to September 27, 1977, need not include this fee and should indicate their enrollment number on the application.
(c) Execution under oath. All applications for enrollment will be executed under oath or affirmation.
Execution under oath.
All applications for enrollment will be executed under oath or affirmation.
(d) Filing. Applications for enrollment will be filed with the Assistant Director, Regulatory Enforcement, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 1200 Pensylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20226.
Filing.
Applications for enrollment will be filed with the Assistant Director, Regulatory Enforcement, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 1200 Pensylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20226.
(e) Additional information. The Director, as a condition to consideration for enrollment, may require the applicant to file additional information as necessary to determine if the applicant is qualified. The Director shall, upon written request, afford an applicant the opportunity to be heard with respect to his or her application for enrollment.
Additional information.
The Director, as a condition to consideration for enrollment, may require the applicant to file additional information as necessary to determine if the applicant is qualified. The Director shall, upon written request, afford an applicant the opportunity to be heard with respect to his or her application for enrollment.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1512-0418)
(Sec. 501, Pub. L. 82-137, 65 Stat. 290 (31 U.S.C. 483a); 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (80 Stat. 383, as amended))
[[42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977; 42 FR 36455, July 15, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 14944, Apr. 16, 1984]]

§ 8.23   Denial of enrollment; appeal.

(a) The Director, in denying an application for enrollment, shall inform the applicant as to the reasons. The applicant may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of denial, file a written appeal together with reasons in support thereof, with the Director of Practice. The Director of Practice shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as practicable.
(b) An applicant may, within 30 days after receipt of the decision of the Director of Practice in sustaining a denial of enrollment, appeal the decision to the Secretary.

§ 8.24   Enrollment cards.

The Director shall issue an enrollment card to each practitioner who is enrolled to practice before the Bureau. Each enrollment card is valid for a period of 5 years as long as the holder remains enrolled and in good standing before the Bureau. Unless advised to the contrary by the Director, any officer or employee of the Bureau may consider the holder of an unexpired enrollment card to be authorized to practice before the Bureau in the subject area or areas indicated upon the card (alcohol, tobacco, firearms, or explosives matters).

§ 8.25   Renewal of enrollment card.

(a) Period of renewal. An enrolled practitioner may apply for renewal of his or her enrollment card during a 12-month period prior to the expiration of the enrollment card.
Period of renewal.
An enrolled practitioner may apply for renewal of his or her enrollment card during a 12-month period prior to the expiration of the enrollment card.
(b) Application. Each enrolled practitioner applying for a renewal of enrollment shall apply to the Director. The enrolled practitioner shall include in the application all information required by § 8.22 except information relating to technical qualifications unless the enrolled practitioner is applying for enrollment in a subject area or areas in which he or she was not previously qualified to practice.
Application.
Each enrolled practitioner applying for a renewal of enrollment shall apply to the Director. The enrolled practitioner shall include in the application all information required by § 8.22 except information relating to technical qualifications unless the enrolled practitioner is applying for enrollment in a subject area or areas in which he or she was not previously qualified to practice.
(c) Fee. Each application for renewal of enrollment will be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $5, payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
Fee.
Each application for renewal of enrollment will be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $5, payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1512-0418)
(5 U.S.C. 552(a) (80 Stat. 383, as amended))
[[42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 14944, Apr. 16, 1984]]

§ 8.26   Change in enrollment.

(a) Change in area of practice. At any time during a period of enrollment, an enrolled practitioner may apply to practice in a subject area or areas in which he or she was not previously qualified to practice (alcohol, tobacco, firearms, or explosives matters).
Change in area of practice.
At any time during a period of enrollment, an enrolled practitioner may apply to practice in a subject area or areas in which he or she was not previously qualified to practice (alcohol, tobacco, firearms, or explosives matters).
(b) Application. Each enrolled practitioner applying for a change in enrollment shall apply to the Director. The enrolled practitioner shall include in the application all information required by § 8.22 but shall include information relating to technical qualifications only in those additional subject areas in which he or she is applying to practice.
Application.
Each enrolled practitioner applying for a change in enrollment shall apply to the Director. The enrolled practitioner shall include in the application all information required by § 8.22 but shall include information relating to technical qualifications only in those additional subject areas in which he or she is applying to practice.
(c) Fee. Each application for change in enrollment will be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $5, payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
Fee.
Each application for change in enrollment will be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $5, payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1512-0418)
(5 U.S.C. 552(a) (80 Stat. 383, as amended))
[[42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 14944, Apr. 16, 1984]]

§ 8.27   Enrollment registers.

The Director shall maintain, for public inspection, a register of all persons enrolled to practice before the Bureau and the subject areas in which each person is enrolled to practice, a register of all persons disbarred or suspended from practice, and a register of all persons whose applications for enrollment before the Bureau have been denied.

§ 8.28   Termination of enrollment.

(a) Attorneys, certified public accountants. The enrollment of a practitioner to whom an enrollment card has been issued will terminate when that person becomes eligible to practice without enrollment under § 8.2 (a) or (b), and that person shall surrender his or her enrollment card to the Director for cancellation.
Attorneys, certified public accountants.
The enrollment of a practitioner to whom an enrollment card has been issued will terminate when that person becomes eligible to practice without enrollment under § 8.2 (a) or (b), and that person shall surrender his or her enrollment card to the Director for cancellation.
(b) Expiration of enrollment. The enrollment of any person will automatically terminate after the date indicated on the enrollment card unless, during the 12-month period prior to the expiration date, that person applies for renewal of enrollment with the Director as provided in § 8.25. In this case, the person may continue to practice before the Bureau until his or her application has been finally determined.
Expiration of enrollment.
The enrollment of any person will automatically terminate after the date indicated on the enrollment card unless, during the 12-month period prior to the expiration date, that person applies for renewal of enrollment with the Director as provided in § 8.25. In this case, the person may continue to practice before the Bureau until his or her application has been finally determined.

§ 8.29   Limited practice without enrollment.

(a) General. Individuals may appear on their own behalf and may otherwise appear without enrollment, providing they present satisfactory identification, in the following classes of cases:
General.
Individuals may appear on their own behalf and may otherwise appear without enrollment, providing they present satisfactory identification, in the following classes of cases:
(1) An individual may represent another individual who is his or her regular full-time employer, may represent a partnership of which he or she is a member or a regular full-time employee, of may represent without compensation a member of his or her immediate family.
(2) Corporations (including parent corporations, subsidiaries or affiliated corporations), trusts, estates, associations, or organized groups may be represented by bona fide officers or regular full-time employees.
(3) Trusts, receiverships, guardianships, or estates may be represented by their trustees, receivers, guardians, administrators, executors, or their regular full-time employees.
(4) Any government unit, agency, or authority may be represented by an officer or regular employee in the course of his or her official duties.
(5) Unenrolled persons may participate in rulemaking as provided in 5 U.S.C. 553.
(b) Special appearances. The Director, subject to conditions he or she deems appropriate, may authorize any person to represent a party without enrollment, for the purpose of a particular matter.
Special appearances.
The Director, subject to conditions he or she deems appropriate, may authorize any person to represent a party without enrollment, for the purpose of a particular matter.

Subpart D—Duties and Restrictions Relating to Practice


§ 8.31   Furnishing of information.

(a) To the Bureau. No attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner may neglect or refuse promptly to submit records or information in any matter before the Bureau, upon proper and lawful request by an authorized officer or employee of the Bureau, or may interfere, or attempt to interfere, with any proper and lawful effort by the Bureau or its officers or employees, to obtain the requested record or information, unless he or she believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that the record or information is privileged or that the request for, or effort to obtain, that record or information is of doubtful legality.
To the Bureau.
No attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner may neglect or refuse promptly to submit records or information in any matter before the Bureau, upon proper and lawful request by an authorized officer or employee of the Bureau, or may interfere, or attempt to interfere, with any proper and lawful effort by the Bureau or its officers or employees, to obtain the requested record or information, unless he or she believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that the record or information is privileged or that the request for, or effort to obtain, that record or information is of doubtful legality.
(b) To the Director of Practice. It is the duty of an attorney or certified public accountant, who practices before the Bureau, or enrolled practitioner when requested by the Director of Practice, to provide the Director of Practice with any information he or she may have concerning violation of the regulations in this part by any person, and to testify thereto in any proceeding instituted under this part for the disbarment or suspension of an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner, unless he or she believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that that information is privileged or that the request is of doubtful legality.
To the Director of Practice.
It is the duty of an attorney or certified public accountant, who practices before the Bureau, or enrolled practitioner when requested by the Director of Practice, to provide the Director of Practice with any information he or she may have concerning violation of the regulations in this part by any person, and to testify thereto in any proceeding instituted under this part for the disbarment or suspension of an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner, unless he or she believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that that information is privileged or that the request is of doubtful legality.

§ 8.32   Prompt disposition of pending matters.

No attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner may unreasonably delay the prompt disposition of any matter before the Bureau.

§ 8.33   Accuracy.

Each attorney, certified public accountant, and enrolled practitioner shall exercise due diligence in:
(a) Preparing or assisting in the preparation of, approving, and filing returns, documents, affidavits, and other papers relating to Bureau matters;
(b) Determining the correctness of any representations made by him or her to the Bureau; and
(c) Determining the correctness of any information which he or she imparts to a client with reference to any matter administered by the Bureau.

§ 8.34   Knowledge of client's omission.

Each attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner who knows that a client has not complied with applicable law, or has made an error in or omission from any document, affidavit, or other paper which the law requires the client to execute, shall advise the client promptly of the fact of such noncompliance, error, or omission.

§ 8.35   Assistance from disbarred or suspended persons and former Treasury employees.

No attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practitioner shall, in practice before the Bureau, knowingly and directly or indirectly:
(a) Employ or accept assistance from any person who is under disbarment or suspension from practice before any agency of the Treasury Department;
(b) Accept employment as associate, correspondent, or subagent from, or share fees with, any such person;
(c) Accept assistance in a specific matter from any person who participated personally and substantially in the matter as an employee of the Treasury Department.
[[44 FR 47059, Aug. 10, 1979]]

§ 8.36   Practice by partners of Government employees.

No partner of an officer or employee of the executive branch of the U.S. Government, of any independent agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, may represent anyone in any matter administered by the Bureau in which the Government employee participates or has participated personally and substantially as a Government employee, or which is the subject of that employee's official responsibility.

§ 8.37   Practice by former Government employees.

(a) Violation of law. No former officer or employee of the U.S. Government, of any independent agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, may represent anyone in any matter administered by the Bureau if the representation would violate any of the laws of the United States.
Violation of law.
No former officer or employee of the U.S. Government, of any independent agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, may represent anyone in any matter administered by the Bureau if the representation would violate any of the laws of the United States.
(b) Personal and substantial participation. No former officer or employee of the executive branch of the U.S. Government, of any independent agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, may represent anyone with repect to any matter under the administration of the Bureau, if he or she participated personally and substantially in that matter as a Government employee.
Personal and substantial participation.
No former officer or employee of the executive branch of the U.S. Government, of any independent agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, may represent anyone with repect to any matter under the administration of the Bureau, if he or she participated personally and substantially in that matter as a Government employee.
(c) Official responsibility. No former officer or employee of the executive branch of the U.S. Government, of any indepenednt agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, may within one year after his or her employment has ceased, appear personally as a practitioner before the Bureau with respect to any matter administered by the Bureau if that representation involves a specific matter under the former employee's official responsibility as a Government employee, within a one-year period prior to the termination of that responsibility.
Official responsibility.
No former officer or employee of the executive branch of the U.S. Government, of any indepenednt agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, may within one year after his or her employment has ceased, appear personally as a practitioner before the Bureau with respect to any matter administered by the Bureau if that representation involves a specific matter under the former employee's official responsibility as a Government employee, within a one-year period prior to the termination of that responsibility.
(d) Aid or assistance. No former officer or employee of the Bureau, who is eligible to practice before the Bureau, may aid or assist any person in the representation of a specific matter in which the former officer or employee participated personally and substantially as an officer or employee of the Bureau.
Aid or assistance.
No former officer or employee of the Bureau, who is eligible to practice before the Bureau, may aid or assist any person in the representation of a specific matter in which the former officer or employee participated personally and substantially as an officer or employee of the Bureau.
(18 U.S.C. 207)

§ 8.38   Notaries.

No attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner may, with respect to any matter administered by the Bureau, take acknowledgements, administer oaths, certify papers, or perform any official act in connection with matters in which he or she is employed as counsel, attorney, or practioner, or in which he or she may be in any way interested before the Bureau.
(26 Op. Atty. Gen. 236)

§ 8.39   Fees.

No attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner may charge an unconscionable fee for representing a client in any matter before the Bureau.

§ 8.40   Conflicting interests.

No attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner may represent conflicting interests in practice before the Bureau, except by express consent of all directly interested parties after full disclosure has been made.

§ 8.41   Solicitation.

(a) Advertising and solicitation restrictions. (1) No attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practitioner shall, with respect to any Bureau matter, in any way use or participate in the use of any form of public communication containing a false, fraudulent, misleading, deceptive, unduly influencing, coercive or unfair statement or claim. For the purposes of this subsection, the prohibition includes, but is not limited to, statements pertaining to the quality of services rendered unless subject to factual verification, claims of specialized expertise not authorized by State or Federal agencies having jurisdiction over the practitioner, and statements or suggestions that the ingenuity and/or prior record of a representative rather than the merit of the matter are principal factors likely to determine the result of the matter.
Advertising and solicitation restrictions.
(1) No attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practitioner shall, with respect to any Bureau matter, in any way use or participate in the use of any form of public communication containing a false, fraudulent, misleading, deceptive, unduly influencing, coercive or unfair statement or claim. For the purposes of this subsection, the prohibition includes, but is not limited to, statements pertaining to the quality of services rendered unless subject to factual verification, claims of specialized expertise not authorized by State or Federal agencies having jurisdiction over the practitioner, and statements or suggestions that the ingenuity and/or prior record of a representative rather than the merit of the matter are principal factors likely to determine the result of the matter.
(2) No attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practitioner shall make, directly or indirectly, an uninvited solicitation of employment, in matters related to the Bureau. Solicitation includes, but is not limited to, in-person contacts, telephone communications, and personal mailings directed to the specific circumstances unique to the recipient. This restriction does not apply to: (i) Seeking new business from an existing or former client in a related matter; (ii) solicitation by mailings, the contents of which are designed for the general public; or (iii) non-coercive in-person solicitation by those eligible to practice before the Bureau while acting as an employee, member, or officer of an exempt organization listed in sections 501(c) (3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C.).
(b) Permissible advertising. (1) Attorneys, certified public accountants and enrolled practitioners may publish, broadcast, or use in a dignified manner through any means of communication set forth in paragraph (d) of this section:
Permissible advertising.
(1) Attorneys, certified public accountants and enrolled practitioners may publish, broadcast, or use in a dignified manner through any means of communication set forth in paragraph (d) of this section:
(i) The name, address, telephone number, and office hours of the practitioner or firm.
(ii) The names of individuals associated with the firm.
(iii) A factual description of the services offered.
(iv) Acceptable credit cards and other credit arrangements.
(v) Foreign language ability.
(vi) Membership in pertinent, professional organizations.
(vii) Pertinent professional licenses.
(viii) A statement that an individual's or firm's practice is limited to certain areas.
(ix) In the case of an enrolled practitioner, the phrase “enrolled to practice before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.”
(x) Other facts relevant to the selection of a practitioner in matters related to the Bureau which are not prohibited by these regulations.
(2) Attorneys, certified public accountants and enrolled practitioners may use, to the extent they are consistent with the regulations in this section, customary biographical insertions in approved law lists and reputable professional journals and directories, as well as professional cards, letterheads and announcements: Provided, That (i) attorneys do not violate applicable standards of ethical conduct adopted by the American Bar Association, (ii) certified public accountants do not violate applicable standards of ethical conduct adopted by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and (iii) enrolled practitioners do not violate applicable standards of ethical conduct adopted by the National Society of Public Accountants.
Provided,
That (i) attorneys do not violate applicable standards of ethical conduct adopted by the American Bar Association, (ii) certified public accountants do not violate applicable standards of ethical conduct adopted by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and (iii) enrolled practitioners do not violate applicable standards of ethical conduct adopted by the National Society of Public Accountants.
(c) Fee information. (1) Attorneys, certified public accountants and enrolled practitioners may disseminate the following fee information:
Fee information.
(1) Attorneys, certified public accountants and enrolled practitioners may disseminate the following fee information:
(i) Fixed fees for specific routine services.
(ii) Hourly rates.
(iii) Range of fees for particular services.
(iv) Fee charged for an initial consultation.
(2) Attorneys, certified public accountants and enrolled practitioners may also publish the availability of a written schedule of fees.
(3) Attorneys, certified public accountants and enrolled practitioners shall be bound to charge the hourly rate, the fixed fee for specific routine services, the range of fees for particular services, or the fee for an initial consultation published for a reasonable period of time, but no less than thirty days from the last publication of such hourly rate or fees.
(d) Communications. Communications, including fee information, shall be limited to professional lists, telephone directories, print media, permissible mailings as provided in these regulations, radio and television. In the case of radio and television broadcasting, the broadcast shall be pre-recorded and the practitioner shall retain a recording of the actual audio transmission.
Communications.
Communications, including fee information, shall be limited to professional lists, telephone directories, print media, permissible mailings as provided in these regulations, radio and television. In the case of radio and television broadcasting, the broadcast shall be pre-recorded and the practitioner shall retain a recording of the actual audio transmission.
(e) Improper associations. An attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practitioner may, in matters related to the Bureau, employ or accept employment or assistance as an associate, correspondent, or subagent from, or share fees with, any person or entity who, to the knowledge of the practitioner, obtains clients or otherwise practices in a manner forbidden under this section: Provided, That an attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practitioner does not, directly or indirectly, act or hold himself out as authorized to practice before the Bureau in connection with that relationship. Nothing herein shall prohibit an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner from practice before the Bureau in a capacity other than that described above.
Improper associations.
An attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practitioner may, in matters related to the Bureau, employ or accept employment or assistance as an associate, correspondent, or subagent from, or share fees with, any person or entity who, to the knowledge of the practitioner, obtains clients or otherwise practices in a manner forbidden under this section:
Provided,
That an attorney, certified public accountant or enrolled practitioner does not, directly or indirectly, act or hold himself out as authorized to practice before the Bureau in connection with that relationship. Nothing herein shall prohibit an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner from practice before the Bureau in a capacity other than that described above.
[[44 FR 47060, Aug. 10, 1979]]

§ 8.42   Practice of law.

Nothing in the regulations in this part may be construed as authorizing persons not members of the bar to practice law.

Subpart E—Disciplinary Proceedings


§ 8.51   Authority to disbar or suspend.

The Secretary, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, may suspend or disbar from practice before the Bureau any attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner shown to be incompetent, disreputable or who refuses to comply with the rules and regulations in this part or who shall, with intent to defraud, in any manner willfully and knowingly deceive, mislead, or threaten any client or prospective client, by word, circular, letter, or by advertisement.
(Sec. 3, 23 Stat. 258 (31 U.S.C. 1026))

§ 8.52   Disreputable conduct.

Disreputable conduct for which an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner may be disbarred or suspended from practice before the Bureau includes, but is not limited to:
(a) Conviction of any criminal offense under the revenue laws of the United States; under any other law of the United States which the Bureau enforces pursuant to Treasury Department Order No. 221 (37 FR 11696) effective July 1, 1972; or for any offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust.
(b) Giving false or misleading information, or participating in any way in the giving of false or misleading information, to the Bureau or any officer or employee thereof, or to any tribunal authorized to pass upon matters administered by the Bureau in connection with any matter pending or likely to be pending before them, knowing the information to be false or misleading. Facts or other matters contained in testimony, Federal tax returns, financial statements, applications for enrollment, affidavits, declarations, or any other document or statement, written or oral, are included in the term “information”.
(c) Solicitation of employment as prohibited under § 8.41, the use of false or misleading representations with intent to deceive a client or a prospective client in order to procure employment, or intimating that the practitioner is able improperly to obtain special consideration or action from the Bureau or an officer or employee thereof.
(d) Willfully failing to make a Federal tax return in violation of the revenue laws of the United States, or evading, attempting to evade, or participating in any way in evading or attempting to evade any Federal tax or payment thereof; knowingly counseling or suggesting to a client or prospective client an illegal plan to evade Federal taxes or payment thereof, or concealing assets of himself or herself, or of another in order to evade Federal taxes or payment thereof.
(e) Misappropriation of, or failure properly and promptly to remit funds received from a client for the purpose of payment of taxes or other obligations due the United States.
(f) Directly or indirectly attempting to influence, or offering or agreeing to attempt to influence, the official action of any officer or employee of the Bureau by the use of threats, false accusations, duress or coercion, by the offer of any special inducement or promise of advantage or by the bestowing of any gift, favor, or thing of value.
(g) Disbarment or suspension from practice as an attorney or certified public accountant by any duly constituted authority of any State, possession, Commonwealth, the District of Columbia, or by any Federal court of record.
(h) Disbarment or suspension from practice as an attorney, certified public accountant, or other person admitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(i) Knowingly aiding and abetting another person to practice before the Bureau during a period of suspension, disbarment, or ineligibility of the other person. Maintaining a partnership for the practice of law, accountancy, or other related professional service with a person who is under disbarment from practice before the Bureau or the Intenal Revenue Service is presumed to be a violation of this provision.
(j) Contemptuous conduct in connection with practice before the Bureau, including the use of abusive language, making false accusations and statements knowing them to be false, or circulating or publishing malicious or libelous matter.
(k) Willful violation of any of the regulations contained in this part.
[[42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977; 42 FR 36455, July 15, 1977]]

§ 8.53   Initiation of disciplinary proceedings.

(a) Receipt of information. If an officer or employee of the Bureau has reason to believe that an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner has violated any of the provisions of this part or engaged in any disreputable conduct as defined in § 8.52, the employee shall promptly make a report thereof which will be forwarded to the Director of Practice. Any other person possessing information concerning violations or disreputable conduct may make a report thereof to the Director of Practice or to any officer or employee of the Bureau.
Receipt of information.
If an officer or employee of the Bureau has reason to believe that an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner has violated any of the provisions of this part or engaged in any disreputable conduct as defined in § 8.52, the employee shall promptly make a report thereof which will be forwarded to the Director of Practice. Any other person possessing information concerning violations or disreputable conduct may make a report thereof to the Director of Practice or to any officer or employee of the Bureau.
(b) Institution of proceeding. When the Director of Practice has reason to believe that any attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner has violated any provisions of the laws or regulations governing practice before the Bureau, he or she may reprimand the person or institute a proceeding for the disbarment or suspension of that person. The proceeding will be instituted by a complaint which names the respondent and is signed by the Director of Practice and filed in his or her office. Except in cases of willfulness, or when time, the nature of the proceeding, or the public interest does not permit, the Director of Practice may not institute a proceeding until he or she has called to the attention of the proposed respondent, in writing, facts or conduct which warrant institution of a proceeding, and has accorded the proposed respondent the opportuity to demonstrate or achieve compliance with all lawful requirements.
Institution of proceeding.
When the Director of Practice has reason to believe that any attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner has violated any provisions of the laws or regulations governing practice before the Bureau, he or she may reprimand the person or institute a proceeding for the disbarment or suspension of that person. The proceeding will be instituted by a complaint which names the respondent and is signed by the Director of Practice and filed in his or her office. Except in cases of willfulness, or when time, the nature of the proceeding, or the public interest does not permit, the Director of Practice may not institute a proceeding until he or she has called to the attention of the proposed respondent, in writing, facts or conduct which warrant institution of a proceeding, and has accorded the proposed respondent the opportuity to demonstrate or achieve compliance with all lawful requirements.

§ 8.54   Conferences.

(a) General. The Director of Practice may confer with an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practioner concerning allegations of misconduct whether or not a proceeding for disbarment or suspension has been instituted. If a conference results in a stipulation in connection with a proceeding in which that person is the respondent, the stipulation may be entered in the record at the instance of either party to the proceeding.
General.
The Director of Practice may confer with an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practioner concerning allegations of misconduct whether or not a proceeding for disbarment or suspension has been instituted. If a conference results in a stipulation in connection with a proceeding in which that person is the respondent, the stipulation may be entered in the record at the instance of either party to the proceeding.
(b) Resignation or voluntary suspension. An attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner, in order to avoid the institution or conclusion of a disbarment or suspension proceeding, may offer his or her consent to suspension from practice before the Bureau. An enrolled practitioner may also offer a resignation. The Director of Practice, at his or her discretion, may accept the offered resignation of an enrolled practitioner and may suspend an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner in accordance with the consent offered.
Resignation or voluntary suspension.
An attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner, in order to avoid the institution or conclusion of a disbarment or suspension proceeding, may offer his or her consent to suspension from practice before the Bureau. An enrolled practitioner may also offer a resignation. The Director of Practice, at his or her discretion, may accept the offered resignation of an enrolled practitioner and may suspend an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner in accordance with the consent offered.

§ 8.55   Contents of complaint.

(a) Charges. A complaint will give a plain and concise description of the allegations which constitute the basis for the proceeding. A complaint will be deemed sufficient if it fairly informs the respondent of the charges to that he or she is able to prepare a defense.
Charges.
A complaint will give a plain and concise description of the allegations which constitute the basis for the proceeding. A complaint will be deemed sufficient if it fairly informs the respondent of the charges to that he or she is able to prepare a defense.
(b) Demand for answer. The complaint will give notification of the place and time prescribed for the filing of an answer by the respondent; that time will be not less than 15 days from the date of service of the complaint. Notice will be given that a decision by default may be rendered against the respondent if the complaint is not answered as required.
Demand for answer.
The complaint will give notification of the place and time prescribed for the filing of an answer by the respondent; that time will be not less than 15 days from the date of service of the complaint. Notice will be given that a decision by default may be rendered against the respondent if the complaint is not answered as required.

§ 8.56   Service of complaint and other papers.

(a) Complaint. A copy of the complaint may be served upon the respondent by certified mail or by first-class mail. The copy of the complaint may be delivered to the respondent or the respondent's attorney or agent of record either in person or by leaving it at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney or agent, or the complaint may be delivered in any manner which has been agreed to by the respondent. If the service is by certified mail, the post office receipt signed by or on behalf of the respondent will be proof of service. If the certified matter is not claimed or accepted by the respondent and is returned undelivered, complete service may be made upon the respondent by mailing the complaint to him or her by first-class mail, addressed to the respondent at the address under which he or she is enrolled or at the last address known to the Director of Practice. If service is made upon the respondent or the respondent's attorney or agent in person, or by leaving the complaint at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney or agent, the verified return by the person making service, setting forth the manner of service, will be proof of service.
Complaint.
A copy of the complaint may be served upon the respondent by certified mail or by first-class mail. The copy of the complaint may be delivered to the respondent or the respondent's attorney or agent of record either in person or by leaving it at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney or agent, or the complaint may be delivered in any manner which has been agreed to by the respondent. If the service is by certified mail, the post office receipt signed by or on behalf of the respondent will be proof of service. If the certified matter is not claimed or accepted by the respondent and is returned undelivered, complete service may be made upon the respondent by mailing the complaint to him or her by first-class mail, addressed to the respondent at the address under which he or she is enrolled or at the last address known to the Director of Practice. If service is made upon the respondent or the respondent's attorney or agent in person, or by leaving the complaint at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney or agent, the verified return by the person making service, setting forth the manner of service, will be proof of service.
(b) Service of other papers. Any paper other than the complaint may be served upon an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent at the last address known to the Director of Practice, or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent's attorney or agent of record. This mailing will constitute complete service. Notices may be served upon the respondent or his attorney or agent by telegram.
Service of other papers.
Any paper other than the complaint may be served upon an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent at the last address known to the Director of Practice, or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent's attorney or agent of record. This mailing will constitute complete service. Notices may be served upon the respondent or his attorney or agent by telegram.
(c) Filing of papers. When the filing of a paper is required or permitted in connection with a disbarment or suspension proceeding, and the place of filing is not specified by this subpart or by rule or order of the Administrative Law Judge, the papers will be filed with the Director of Practice, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220. All papers will be filed in duplicate.
Filing of papers.
When the filing of a paper is required or permitted in connection with a disbarment or suspension proceeding, and the place of filing is not specified by this subpart or by rule or order of the Administrative Law Judge, the papers will be filed with the Director of Practice, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220. All papers will be filed in duplicate.

§ 8.57   Answer.

(a) Filing. The respondent shall file the answer in writing within the time specified in the complaint or notice of institution of the proceeding, unless on application the time is extended by the Director of Practice or the Administrative Law Judge. The respondent shall file the answer in duplicate with the director of Practice.
Filing.
The respondent shall file the answer in writing within the time specified in the complaint or notice of institution of the proceeding, unless on application the time is extended by the Director of Practice or the Administrative Law Judge. The respondent shall file the answer in duplicate with the director of Practice.
(b) Contents. The respondent shall include in the answer a statement of facts which constitute the grounds of defense, and shall specifically admit or deny each allegation set forth in the complaint, except that the respondent shall not deny a material allegation in the complaint which he or she knows to be true, or state that he or she is without sufficient information to form a belief when in fact the respondent possesses that information. The respondent may also state affirmatively special matters of defense.
Contents.
The respondent shall include in the answer a statement of facts which constitute the grounds of defense, and shall specifically admit or deny each allegation set forth in the complaint, except that the respondent shall not deny a material allegation in the complaint which he or she knows to be true, or state that he or she is without sufficient information to form a belief when in fact the respondent possesses that information. The respondent may also state affirmatively special matters of defense.
(c) Failure to deny or answer allegations in the complaint. Every allegation in the complaint which is not denied in the answer is deemed to be admitted and may be considered as proven, and no further evidence in respect of that allegation need be adduced at a hearing. Failure to file an answer within the time prescribed in the notice to the respondent, except as the time for answer is extended by the Director of Practice or the Administrative Law Judge, will constitute an admission of the allegations of the complaint and a waiver of hearing, and the Administrative Law Judge may make a decision by default without a hearing or further procedure.
Failure to deny or answer allegations in the complaint.
Every allegation in the complaint which is not denied in the answer is deemed to be admitted and may be considered as proven, and no further evidence in respect of that allegation need be adduced at a hearing. Failure to file an answer within the time prescribed in the notice to the respondent, except as the time for answer is extended by the Director of Practice or the Administrative Law Judge, will constitute an admission of the allegations of the complaint and a waiver of hearing, and the Administrative Law Judge may make a decision by default without a hearing or further procedure.
(d) Reply by Director of Practice. No reply to the respondent's answer is required, and new matter in the answer will be deemed to be denied, but the Director of Practice may file a reply at his or her discretion or at the request of the Administrative Law Judge.
Reply by Director of Practice.
No reply to the respondent's answer is required, and new matter in the answer will be deemed to be denied, but the Director of Practice may file a reply at his or her discretion or at the request of the Administrative Law Judge.

§ 8.58   Supplemental charges.

If it appears that the respondent in his or her answer, falsely and in bad faith, denies a material allegation of fact in the complaint or states that the respondent has no knowledge sufficient to form a belief, when he or she in fact possesses that information, or if it appears that the respondent has knowingly introduced false testimony during proceedings for his or her disbarment or suspension, the Director of Practice may file supplemental charges against the respondent. These supplemental charges may be tried with other charges in the case, provided the respondent is given due notice and is afforded an opportunity to prepare to a defense to them.

§ 8.59   Proof; variance; amendment of pleadings.

In the case of a variance between the allegations in a pleading, the Administrative Law Judge may order or authorize amendment of the pleading to conform to the evidence. The party who would otherwise be prejudiced by the amendment will be given reasonable opportunty to meet the allegation of the pleading as amended, and the Administrative Law Judge shall make findings on an issue presented by the pleadings as so amended.

§ 8.60   Motions and requests.

Motions and requests may be filed with the Director of Practice or with the Administrative Law Judge.

§ 8.61   Representation.

A respondent or proposed respondent may appear in person or be represented by counsel or other representative who need not be enrolled to practice before the Bureau. The Director of Practice may be represented by an Attorney or other employee of the Treasury Department.

§ 8.62   Administrative Law Judge.

(a) Appointment. An Administrative Law Judge, appointed as provided by 5 U.S.C. 3105, shall conduct proceedings upon complaints for the disbarment or suspension of attorneys, certified public accountants, or enrolled practitioners.
Appointment.
An Administrative Law Judge, appointed as provided by 5 U.S.C. 3105, shall conduct proceedings upon complaints for the disbarment or suspension of attorneys, certified public accountants, or enrolled practitioners.
(b) Responsibilities. The Administrative Law Judge in connection with any disbarment or suspension proceeding shall have authority to:
Responsibilities.
The Administrative Law Judge in connection with any disbarment or suspension proceeding shall have authority to:
(1) Administer oaths and affirmation;
(2) Make rulings upon motions and requests; these rulings may not be appealed prior to the close of the hearing except at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge in extraordinary circumstances;
(3) Rule upon offers of proof, receive relevant evidence, and examine witnesses;
(4) Take or authorize to the taking of depositions;
(5) Determine the time and place of hearing and regulate its course and conduct;
(6) Hold or provide for the holding of conferences to settle or simplify the issues by consent of the parties;
(7) Receive and consider oral or written arguments on facts or law;
(8) Make initial decisions;
(9) Adopt rules of procedure and modify them from time to time as occasion requires for the orderly disposition of proceedings; and
(10) Perform acts and take measures as necessary to promote the efficient conduct of any proceeding.

§ 8.63   Hearings.

(a) Conduct. The Administrative Law Judge shall preside at the hearing on a complaint for the disbarment or suspension of an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner. Hearings will be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses will be received under oath or affirmation. The Administrative Law Judge shall conduct hearings pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556.
Conduct.
The Administrative Law Judge shall preside at the hearing on a complaint for the disbarment or suspension of an attorney, certified public accountant, or enrolled practitioner. Hearings will be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses will be received under oath or affirmation. The Administrative Law Judge shall conduct hearings pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556.
(b) Failure to appear. If either party to the proceedings fails to appear at the hearing, after due notice has been sent, the Administrative Law Judge may deem them to have waived the right to a hearing and may make a decision against the absent party by default.
Failure to appear.
If either party to the proceedings fails to appear at the hearing, after due notice has been sent, the Administrative Law Judge may deem them to have waived the right to a hearing and may make a decision against the absent party by default.

§ 8.64   Evidence.

(a) Rules of evidence. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings. However, the Administrative Law Judge shall exclude evidence which is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.
Rules of evidence.
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings. However, the Administrative Law Judge shall exclude evidence which is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.
(b) Depositions. Depositions of witnesses taken pursuant to § 8.65 may be admitted as evidence.
Depositions.
Depositions of witnesses taken pursuant to § 8.65 may be admitted as evidence.
(c) Government documents. Official documents, records, and papers of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the Office of the Director of Practice are admissible in evidence without the prouction of an officer or employee to authenticate them. These documents, records and papers may be evidenced by a copy attested or identified by an officer or employee of the Bureau or the Treasury Department.
Government documents.
Official documents, records, and papers of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the Office of the Director of Practice are admissible in evidence without the prouction of an officer or employee to authenticate them. These documents, records and papers may be evidenced by a copy attested or identified by an officer or employee of the Bureau or the Treasury Department.
(d) Exhibits. If any document, record, or other paper is introduced in evidence as an exhibit, the Administrative Law Judge may authorize the withdrawal of the exhibit subject to any conditions he or she deems proper.
Exhibits.
If any document, record, or other paper is introduced in evidence as an exhibit, the Administrative Law Judge may authorize the withdrawal of the exhibit subject to any conditions he or she deems proper.
(e) Objections. Objections to evidence will be in short form, stating the grounds of objection and the record may not include arguments thereon, except as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. Rulings on objections will be a part of the record. No exception to the ruling is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties.
Objections.
Objections to evidence will be in short form, stating the grounds of objection and the record may not include arguments thereon, except as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. Rulings on objections will be a part of the record. No exception to the ruling is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties.

§ 8.65   Depositions.

Depositions for use at a hearing may, with the written approval of the Administrative Law Judge, be taken by either the Director of Practice or the respondent or their authorized representatives. Depositions may be taken upon oral or written questioning, upon not less than 10 days' written notice to the other party before any officer authorized to administer an oath for general purposes or before an officer or employee of the Bureau authorized to administer an oath pursuant to 27 CFR 70.35. The written notice will state the names of the witnesses and the time and place where the depositions are to be taken. The requirement of 10 days' notice may be waived by the parties in writing, and depositions may then be taken from the persons and at the times and places mutually agreed to by the parties. When a deposition is taken upon written questioning, any cross-examination will be upon written questioning. Copies of the written questioning will be served upon the other party with the notice, and copies of any written cross-interrogation will be mailed or delivered to the opposing party at least 5 days before the date of taking the depositions, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise. A party on whose behalf a deposition is taken must file it with the Administrative Law Judge and serve one copy upon the opposing party. Expenses in the reproduction of depositions will be borne by the party at whose instance the deposition is taken.

§ 8.66   Transcript.

In cases in which the hearing is stenographically reported by a Government contract reporter, copies of the transcript may be obtained from the reporter at rates not to exceed the maximum rates fixed by contract between the Government and the reporter. If the hearing is stenographically reported by a regular employee of the Bureau, a copy of the hearing will be supplied to the respondent either without charge or upon the payment of a reasonable fee. Copies of exhibits introduced at the hearing or at the taking of depositions will be supplied to the parties upon the payment of a reasonable fee.
(Sec. 501, Pub. L. 82-137, 65 Stat. 290 (31 U.S.C. 483a))

§ 8.67   Proposed findings and conclusions.

Except in cases when the respondent has failed to answer the complaint or when a party has failed to appear at the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge, prior to making his or her decision, shall afford the parties a reasonable opportunity to submit proposed findings and conclusions and their supporting reasons.

§ 8.68   Decision of Administrative Law Judge.

As soon as practicable after the conclusion of a hearing and the receipt of any proposed findings and conclusions timely submitted by the parties, the Administrative Law Judge shall make the initial decision in the case. The decision will include (a) a statement of findings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis therefor, upon all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record, and (b) an order of disbarment, suspension, or reprimand or an order of dismissal of the complaint. The Administrative Law Judge shall file the decision with the Director of Practice and shall transmit a copy to the respondent or the respondent's attorney of record. In the absence of an appeal to the Secretary, or review of the decision upon motion of the Secretary, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge will, without further proceedings, become the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury 30 days from the date of the Administrative Law Judge's decision.

§ 8.69   Appeal to the Secretary.

Within 30 days from the date of the Administrative Law Judge's decision, either party may appeal to the Secretary. The appeal will be filed with the Director of Practice in duplicate and will include exceptions to the decision of the Administrative Law Judge and supporting reasons for those exceptions. If the Director of Practice files the appeal, he or she shall transmit a copy of it to the respondent. Within 30 days after receipt of an appeal or copy thereof, the other party may file a reply brief in duplicate with the Director of Practice. If the Director of Practice files the reply brief, he or she shall transmit a copy of it to the respondent. Upon the filing of an appeal and a reply brief, if any, the Director of Practice shall transmit the entire record to the Secretary.

§ 8.70   Decision of the Secretary.

On appeal from or review of the intial decision of the Administrative Law Judge, the Secretary shall make the agency decision. In making this decision, the Secretary shall review the record or those portions of the records as may be cited by the parties in order to limit the issues. The Director of Prasctice shall transmit a copy of the Secretary's decision to the respondent.

§ 8.71   Effect of disbarment or suspension.

(a) Disbarment. If the final order against the respondent is for disbarment, the respondent will not thereafter be permitted to practice before the Bureau unless authorized to do so by the Director of Practice pursuant to § 8.72.
Disbarment.
If the final order against the respondent is for disbarment, the respondent will not thereafter be permitted to practice before the Bureau unless authorized to do so by the Director of Practice pursuant to § 8.72.
(b) Suspension. If the final order against the respondent is for suspension, the respondent will not thereafter be permitted to practice before the Bureau during the period of suspension.
Suspension.
If the final order against the respondent is for suspension, the respondent will not thereafter be permitted to practice before the Bureau during the period of suspension.
(c) Surrender of enrollment card. If an enrolled practitioner is disbarred or suspended, he or she shall surrender the enrollment card to the Director of Practice for cancellation, in the case of disbarment, or for retention during the period of suspension.
Surrender of enrollment card.
If an enrolled practitioner is disbarred or suspended, he or she shall surrender the enrollment card to the Director of Practice for cancellation, in the case of disbarment, or for retention during the period of suspension.
(d) Notice of disbarment or suspension. Upon the issuance of a final order for suspension or disbarment, the Director of Practice shall give notice of the order to appropriate officers and employees of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and to interested departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Director of Practice may also give notice as he or she may determine to the proper authorities of the State in which the disbarred or suspended person was licensed to practice as an attorney or certified public accountant.
Notice of disbarment or suspension.
Upon the issuance of a final order for suspension or disbarment, the Director of Practice shall give notice of the order to appropriate officers and employees of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and to interested departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Director of Practice may also give notice as he or she may determine to the proper authorities of the State in which the disbarred or suspended person was licensed to practice as an attorney or certified public accountant.

§ 8.72   Petition for reinstatement.

The Director of Practice may entertain a petition for reinstatement from any person disbarred from practice before the Bureau after the expiration of 5 years following disbarment. The director of Practice may not grant reinstatement unless he or she is satisfied that the petitioner is not likely to conduct himself or herself contrary to the regulations in this part, and that granting reinstatement would not be contrary to the public interest.

PART 9—EFFECTS OF IMPORTED ARTICLES ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY

[Authority:Sec. 232, as amended, 76 Stat. 877, 80 Stat. 369 (19 U.S.C. 1862); 5 U.S.C. 301; Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1973; and E.O. 11725, June 27, 1973 (38 FR 17175).]
Authority:
Sec. 232, as amended, 76 Stat. 877, 80 Stat. 369 (19 U.S.C. 1862); 5 U.S.C. 301; Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1973; and E.O. 11725, June 27, 1973 (38 FR 17175).

§ 9.2   Definitions.

As used herein, Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury and Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Enforcement, Operations, and Tariff Affairs).
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury and
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Enforcement, Operations, and Tariff Affairs).
[[40 FR 50717, Oct. 31, 1975]]

§ 9.3   General.

(a) Upon request of the head of any Government department or agency, upon application of an interested party, or upon his own motion, the Assistant Secretary shall set in motion an immediate investigation to determine the effects on the national security of imports of any article.
(b) The Secretary shall report the findings of his investigation under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the effect of the importation of such article in such quantities or under such circumstances upon the national security and, based on such findings, his recommendation for action or inaction to the President within one year after receiving an application from an interested party or otherwise beginning an investigation under this section.
[[39 FR 10898, Mar. 22, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 50717, Oct. 31, 1975]]

§ 9.4   Criteria for determining effects of imports on national security.

(a) In determining the effect on the national security of imports of the article which is the subject of the investigation, the Secretary is required to take into consideration the following:
(1) Domestic production needed for projected national defense requirements including restoration and rehabilitation.
(2) The capacity of domestic industries to meet such projected requirements, including existing and anticipated availabilities of:
(i) Human resources.
(ii) Products.
(iii) Raw materials.
(iv) Production equipment and facilities.
(v) Other supplies and services essential to the national defense.
(3) The requirement of growth of such industries and such supplies and services including the investment, exploration and development necessary to assure capacity to meet projected defense requirements.
(4) The effect which the quantities, availabilities, character and uses of imported goods have or will have on such industries and the capacity of the United States to meet national security requirements.
(5) The economic welfare of the Nation as it is related to our national security, including the impact of foreign competition on the economic welfare of individual domestic industries. In determining whether such impact may impair the national security, any substantial unemployment, decrease in revenues of government, loss of skills or investment, or other serious effects shall be considered.
(b) The Secretary shall also consider other relevant factors in determining whether the national security is affected by imports of the article.
[[39 FR 10898, Mar. 22, 1974]]

§ 9.5   Applications for investigation.

(a) Applications shall be in writing. Twenty-five copies shall be filed by mail with the Assistant Secretary (Enforcement, Operations, and Tariff Affairs), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220.
(b) Applications shall describe how the quantities or circumstances of imports of the particular article affect the national security and shall contain the following information:
(1) Identification of the person, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity on whose behalf the application is filed.
(2) A precise description of the article.
(3) Description of the applicant and the domestic industry concerned, including pertinent information regarding companies and their plants, locations, capacity and current output of the domestic industry concerned with the article in question.
(4) Pertinent statistics showing the quantities and values of both imports and production in the United States.
(5) Nature, sources, and degree of the competition created by imports of the article in question.
(6) The effect, if any, of imports of the article in question upon the restoration of domestic production capacity in an emergency.
(7) Employment and special skills involved in the domestic production of the article.
(8) Extent to which investment and specialized productive capacity is or will be adversely affected.
(9) Revenues of Federal, State, or local Governments which are or may be affected by the volume or circumstances of imports of the article.
(10) Defense or defense supporting uses of the article including data on defense contracts or sub-contracts, both past and current.
(c) Statistical material presented should be on a calendar-year basis for sufficient periods of time to indicate trends and afford the greatest possible assistance to the Assistant Secretary. Monthly or quarterly data for the latest complete years should be included as well as any other breakdowns which may be pertinent to show seasonal or short-term factors.
[[39 FR 10898, Mar. 22, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 50717, Oct. 31, 1975]]

§ 9.6   Confidential information.

Information submitted in confidence which the Assistant Secretary determines would disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged, within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552 and 31 CFR part 1, will be accorded confidential treatment. All information submitted in confidence must be on separate pages marked “Business Confidential.”
[[40 FR 50717, Oct. 31, 1975]]

§ 9.7   Conduct of investigation.

(a) The investigation by the Assistant Secretary or by such official or agency as he may designate, shall be such as to enable the Secretary to arrive at a fully informed opinion as to the effect on the national security of imports of the article in question.
(b) If the Assistant Secretary determines that it is appropriate to hold public hearings or otherwise afford interested parties an opportunity to present information and advice relevant to an investigation, he shall issue a public notice which shall be published in the Federal Register. Such notice shall include a statement of the time, place and nature of any public hearing or shall solicit from any interested party written comments, opinions, or data relative to the investigation, to be submitted to the Assistant Secretary within the time period specified in the notice. Rebuttal to material so submitted may be filed with the Assistant Secretary within such time as is specified in the public notice. All data, comments and opinions shall be submitted with 25 copies.
Federal Register.
Such notice shall include a statement of the time, place and nature of any public hearing or shall solicit from any interested party written comments, opinions, or data relative to the investigation, to be submitted to the Assistant Secretary within the time period specified in the notice. Rebuttal to material so submitted may be filed with the Assistant Secretary within such time as is specified in the public notice. All data, comments and opinions shall be submitted with 25 copies.
(c) All applications filed and all comments, opinions, and data submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, except information determined to be confidential as provided in § 9.6, will be available for inspection and copying at the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Enforcement, Operations, and Tariff Affairs), Department of the Treasury, in Washington, DC. The Assistant Secretary will maintain a roster of persons who have submitted materials.
(d) The Assistant Secretary or his designee may also request further data from other sources through the use of questionnaires, correspondence, or other means.
(e) The Assistant Secretary or his delegate shall, in the course of the investigation, seek information or advice from, and consult with, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, or their delegates, and any other appropriate officer of the United States as the Assistant Secretary shall determine.
(f) In addition, the Assistant Secretary, or his designee, may, when he deems it appropriate, hold public hearings to elicit further information. If a hearing is held:
(1) The time and place thereof will be published in the Federal Register.
Federal Register.
(2) It will be conducted by the Assistant Secretary or his designee, and the full record will be considered by the Secretary in arriving at his determination.
(3) Interested parties may appear, either in person or by representation, and produce oral or written evidence relevant and material to the subject matter of the investigation.
(4) After a witness has testified the Assistant Secretary or his designee may question the witness. Questions submitted to the Assistant Secretary or his designee in writing by any interested party may, at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary or his designee, be posed to the witness for reply for the purpose of assisting the Assistant Secretary in obtaining the material facts with respect to the subject matter of the investigation.
(5) The hearing will be stenographically reported. The Assistant Secretary will not cause transcripts of the record of the hearing to be distributed to the interested parties, but a transcript may be inspected at the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Enforcement, Operations, and Tariff Affairs), Department of the Treasury, in Washington, DC, or purchased from the reporter.
[[39 FR 10898, Mar. 22, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 50717, Oct. 31, 1975]]

§ 9.8   Emergency action.

In emergency situations or when in his judgment national security interests require it, the Secretary may vary or dispense with any of the procedures set forth above and may formulate his views without following such procedures.
[[39 FR 10898, Mar. 22, 1974]]

§ 9.9   Report.

A report will be made and published in the Federal Register upon the disposition of each request, application or motion under § 9.3. Copies of the report will be available at the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Enforcement, Operations, and Tariff Affairs), Department of the Treasury.
Federal Register
upon the disposition of each request, application or motion under § 9.3. Copies of the report will be available at the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Enforcement, Operations, and Tariff Affairs), Department of the Treasury.
[[40 FR 50718, Oct. 31, 1975]]

PART 10—PRACTICE BEFORE THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE

[Authority:Sec. 3, 23 Stat. 258, secs. 2-12, 60 Stat. 237 et seq.; 5 U.S.C. 301, 500, 551-559; 31 U.S.C. 321; 31 U.S.C. 330; Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, 15 FR 4935, 64 Stat. 1280, 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 1017.]
Authority:
Sec. 3, 23 Stat. 258, secs. 2-12, 60 Stat. 237
et seq.;
5 U.S.C. 301, 500, 551-559; 31 U.S.C. 321; 31 U.S.C. 330; Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, 15 FR 4935, 64 Stat. 1280, 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 1017.
[Source:Department Circular 230, Revised, 31 FR 10773, Aug. 13, 1966, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
Department Circular 230, Revised, 31 FR 10773, Aug. 13, 1966, unless otherwise noted.
Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 10 appear by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54544, Sept. 26, 2007.

§ 10.0   Scope of part.

(a) This part contains rules governing the recognition of attorneys, certified public accountants, enrolled agents, enrolled retirement plan agents, registered tax return preparers, and other persons representing taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service. Subpart A of this part sets forth rules relating to the authority to practice before the Internal Revenue Service; subpart B of this part prescribes the duties and restrictions relating to such practice; subpart C of this part prescribes the sanctions for violating the regulations; subpart D of this part contains the rules applicable to disciplinary proceedings; and subpart E of this part contains general provisions relating to the availability of official records.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32300, June 3, 2011]]

Subpart A—Rules Governing Authority to Practice

[Source:T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

§ 10.1   Offices.

(a) Establishment of office(s). The Commissioner shall establish the Office of Professional Responsibility and any other office(s) within the Internal Revenue Service necessary to administer and enforce this part. The Commissioner shall appoint the Director of the Office of Professional Responsibility and any other Internal Revenue official(s) to manage and direct any office(s) established to administer or enforce this part. Offices established under this part include, but are not limited to:
Establishment of office(s).
The Commissioner shall establish the Office of Professional Responsibility and any other office(s) within the Internal Revenue Service necessary to administer and enforce this part. The Commissioner shall appoint the Director of the Office of Professional Responsibility and any other Internal Revenue official(s) to manage and direct any office(s) established to administer or enforce this part. Offices established under this part include, but are not limited to:
(1) The Office of Professional Responsibility, which shall generally have responsibility for matters related to practitioner conduct and shall have exclusive responsibility for discipline, including disciplinary proceedings and sanctions; and
(2) An office with responsibility for matters related to authority to practice before the Internal Revenue Service, including acting on applications for enrollment to practice before the Internal Revenue Service and administering competency testing and continuing education.
(b) Officers and employees within any office established under this part may perform acts necessary or appropriate to carry out the responsibilities of their office(s) under this part or as otherwise prescribed by the Commissioner.
(c) Acting. The Commissioner will designate an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service to perform the duties of an individual appointed under paragraph (a) of this section in the absence of that officer or employee or during a vacancy in that office.
Acting.
The Commissioner will designate an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service to perform the duties of an individual appointed under paragraph (a) of this section in the absence of that officer or employee or during a vacancy in that office.
(d) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011, except that paragraph (a)(1) is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011, except that paragraph (a)(1) is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32300, June 3, 2011, as amended by T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33692, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.2   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part, except where the text provides otherwise—
(1) Attorney means any person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, territory, or possession of the United States, including a Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
Attorney
means any person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, territory, or possession of the United States, including a Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
(2) Certified public accountant means any person who is duly qualified to practice as a certified public accountant in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, including a Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
Certified public accountant
means any person who is duly qualified to practice as a certified public accountant in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, including a Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
(3) Commissioner refers to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
Commissioner
refers to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
(4) Practice before the Internal Revenue Service comprehends all matters connected with a presentation to the Internal Revenue Service or any of its officers or employees relating to a taxpayer's rights, privileges, or liabilities under laws or regulations administered by the Internal Revenue Service. Such presentations include, but are not limited to, preparing documents; filing documents; corresponding and communicating with the Internal Revenue Service; rendering written advice with respect to any entity, transaction, plan or arrangement, or other plan or arrangement having a potential for tax avoidance or evasion; and representing a client at conferences, hearings, and meetings.
Practice before the Internal Revenue Service
comprehends all matters connected with a presentation to the Internal Revenue Service or any of its officers or employees relating to a taxpayer's rights, privileges, or liabilities under laws or regulations administered by the Internal Revenue Service. Such presentations include, but are not limited to, preparing documents; filing documents; corresponding and communicating with the Internal Revenue Service; rendering written advice with respect to any entity, transaction, plan or arrangement, or other plan or arrangement having a potential for tax avoidance or evasion; and representing a client at conferences, hearings, and meetings.
(5) Practitioner means any individual described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of § 10.3.
Practitioner
means any individual described in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of § 10.3.
(6) A tax return includes an amended tax return and a claim for refund.
tax return
includes an amended tax return and a claim for refund.
(7) Service means the Internal Revenue Service.
Service
means the Internal Revenue Service.
(8) Tax return preparer means any individual within the meaning of section 7701(a)(36) and 26 CFR 301.7701-15.
Tax return preparer
means any individual within the meaning of section 7701(a)(36) and 26 CFR 301.7701-15.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54544, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32300, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.3   Who may practice.

(a) Attorneys. Any attorney who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service by filing with the Internal Revenue Service a written declaration that the attorney is currently qualified as an attorney and is authorized to represent the party or parties. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, attorneys who are not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service are not required to file a written declaration with the IRS before rendering written advice covered under § 10.37, but their rendering of this advice is practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
Attorneys.
Any attorney who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service by filing with the Internal Revenue Service a written declaration that the attorney is currently qualified as an attorney and is authorized to represent the party or parties. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, attorneys who are not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service are not required to file a written declaration with the IRS before rendering written advice covered under § 10.37, but their rendering of this advice is practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) Certified public accountants. Any certified public accountant who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service by filing with the Internal Revenue Service a written declaration that the certified public accountant is currently qualified as a certified public accountant and is authorized to represent the party or parties. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, certified public accountants who are not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service are not required to file a written declaration with the IRS before rendering written advice covered under § 10.37, but their rendering of this advice is practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
Certified public accountants.
Any certified public accountant who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service by filing with the Internal Revenue Service a written declaration that the certified public accountant is currently qualified as a certified public accountant and is authorized to represent the party or parties. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, certified public accountants who are not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service are not required to file a written declaration with the IRS before rendering written advice covered under § 10.37, but their rendering of this advice is practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(c) Enrolled agents. Any individual enrolled as an agent pursuant to this part who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
Enrolled agents.
Any individual enrolled as an agent pursuant to this part who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(d) Enrolled actuaries. (1) Any individual who is enrolled as an actuary by the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries pursuant to 29 U.S.C. 1242 who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service by filing with the Internal Revenue Service a written declaration stating that he or she is currently qualified as an enrolled actuary and is authorized to represent the party or parties on whose behalf he or she acts.
Enrolled actuaries.
(1) Any individual who is enrolled as an actuary by the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries pursuant to 29 U.S.C. 1242 who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service by filing with the Internal Revenue Service a written declaration stating that he or she is currently qualified as an enrolled actuary and is authorized to represent the party or parties on whose behalf he or she acts.
(2) Practice as an enrolled actuary is limited to representation with respect to issues involving the following statutory provisions in title 26 of the United States Code: sections 401 (relating to qualification of employee plans), 403(a) (relating to whether an annuity plan meets the requirements of section 404(a)(2)), 404 (relating to deductibility of employer contributions), 405 (relating to qualification of bond purchase plans), 412 (relating to funding requirements for certain employee plans), 413 (relating to application of qualification requirements to collectively bargained plans and to plans maintained by more than one employer), 414 (relating to definitions and special rules with respect to the employee plan area), 419 (relating to treatment of funded welfare benefits), 419A (relating to qualified asset accounts), 420 (relating to transfers of excess pension assets to retiree health accounts), 4971 (relating to excise taxes payable as a result of an accumulated funding deficiency under section 412), 4972 (relating to tax on nondeductible contributions to qualified employer plans), 4976 (relating to taxes with respect to funded welfare benefit plans), 4980 (relating to tax on reversion of qualified plan assets to employer), 6057 (relating to annual registration of plans), 6058 (relating to information required in connection with certain plans of deferred compensation), 6059 (relating to periodic report of actuary), 6652(e) (relating to the failure to file annual registration and other notifications by pension plan), 6652(f) (relating to the failure to file information required in connection with certain plans of deferred compensation), 6692 (relating to the failure to file actuarial report), 7805(b) (relating to the extent to which an Internal Revenue Service ruling or determination letter coming under the statutory provisions listed here will be applied without retroactive effect); and 29 U.S.C. 1083 (relating to the waiver of funding for nonqualified plans).
(3) An individual who practices before the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section is subject to the provisions of this part in the same manner as attorneys, certified public accountants, enrolled agents, enrolled retirement plan agents, and registered tax return preparers.
(e) Enrolled Retirement Plan Agents—(1) Any individual enrolled as a retirement plan agent pursuant to this part who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
Enrolled Retirement Plan Agents
—(1) Any individual enrolled as a retirement plan agent pursuant to this part who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(2) Practice as an enrolled retirement plan agent is limited to representation with respect to issues involving the following programs: Employee Plans Determination Letter program; Employee Plans Compliance Resolution System; and Employee Plans Master and Prototype and Volume Submitter program. In addition, enrolled retirement plan agents are generally permitted to represent taxpayers with respect to IRS forms under the 5300 and 5500 series which are filed by retirement plans and plan sponsors, but not with respect to actuarial forms or schedules.
(3) An individual who practices before the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section is subject to the provisions of this part in the same manner as attorneys, certified public accountants, enrolled agents, enrolled actuaries, and registered tax return preparers.
(f) Registered tax return preparers. (1) Any individual who is designated as a registered tax return preparer pursuant to § 10.4(c) of this part who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
Registered tax return preparers.
(1) Any individual who is designated as a registered tax return preparer pursuant to § 10.4(c) of this part who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(2) Practice as a registered tax return preparer is limited to preparing and signing tax returns and claims for refund, and other documents for submission to the Internal Revenue Service. A registered tax return preparer may prepare all or substantially all of a tax return or claim for refund of tax. The Internal Revenue Service will prescribe by forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance the tax returns and claims for refund that a registered tax return preparer may prepare and sign.
(3) A registered tax return preparer may represent taxpayers before revenue agents, customer service representatives, or similar officers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service (including the Taxpayer Advocate Service) during an examination if the registered tax return preparer signed the tax return or claim for refund for the taxable year or period under examination. Unless otherwise prescribed by regulation or notice, this right does not permit such individual to represent the taxpayer, regardless of the circumstances requiring representation, before appeals officers, revenue officers, Counsel or similar officers or employees of the Internal Revenue Service or the Treasury Department. A registered tax return preparer's authorization to practice under this part also does not include the authority to provide tax advice to a client or another person except as necessary to prepare a tax return, claim for refund, or other document intended to be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service.
(4) An individual who practices before the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section is subject to the provisions of this part in the same manner as attorneys, certified public accountants, enrolled agents, enrolled retirement plan agents, and enrolled actuaries.
(g) Others. Any individual qualifying under § 10.5(e) or § 10.7 is eligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service to the extent provided in those sections.
Others.
Any individual qualifying under § 10.5(e) or § 10.7 is eligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service to the extent provided in those sections.
(h) Government officers and employees, and others. An individual, who is an officer or employee of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the United States Government; an officer or employee of the District of Columbia; a Member of Congress; or a Resident Commissioner may not practice before the Internal Revenue Service if such practice violates 18 U.S.C. 203 or 205.
Government officers and employees, and others.
An individual, who is an officer or employee of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the United States Government; an officer or employee of the District of Columbia; a Member of Congress; or a Resident Commissioner may not practice before the Internal Revenue Service if such practice violates 18 U.S.C. 203 or 205.
(i) State officers and employees. No officer or employee of any State, or subdivision of any State, whose duties require him or her to pass upon, investigate, or deal with tax matters for such State or subdivision, may practice before the Internal Revenue Service, if such employment may disclose facts or information applicable to Federal tax matters.
State officers and employees.
No officer or employee of any State, or subdivision of any State, whose duties require him or her to pass upon, investigate, or deal with tax matters for such State or subdivision, may practice before the Internal Revenue Service, if such employment may disclose facts or information applicable to Federal tax matters.
(j) Effective/applicability date. Paragraphs (a), (b), and (g) of this section are applicable beginning June 12, 2014. Paragraphs (c) through (f), (h), and (i) of this section are applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
Paragraphs (a), (b), and (g) of this section are applicable beginning June 12, 2014. Paragraphs (c) through (f), (h), and (i) of this section are applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54545, Sept. 26, 2007; T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32300, June 3, 2011; T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33693, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.4   Eligibility to become an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer.

(a) Enrollment as an enrolled agent upon examination. The Commissioner, or delegate, will grant enrollment as an enrolled agent to an applicant eighteen years of age or older who demonstrates special competence in tax matters by written examination administered by, or administered under the oversight of, the Internal Revenue Service, who possesses a current or otherwise valid preparer tax identification number or other prescribed identifying number, and who has not engaged in any conduct that would justify the suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part.
Enrollment as an enrolled agent upon examination.
The Commissioner, or delegate, will grant enrollment as an enrolled agent to an applicant eighteen years of age or older who demonstrates special competence in tax matters by written examination administered by, or administered under the oversight of, the Internal Revenue Service, who possesses a current or otherwise valid preparer tax identification number or other prescribed identifying number, and who has not engaged in any conduct that would justify the suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part.
(b) Enrollment as a retirement plan agent upon examination. The Commissioner, or delegate, will grant enrollment as an enrolled retirement plan agent to an applicant eighteen years of age or older who demonstrates special competence in qualified retirement plan matters by written examination administered by, or administered under the oversight of, the Internal Revenue Service, who possesses a current or otherwise valid preparer tax identification number or other prescribed identifying number, and who has not engaged in any conduct that would justify the suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part.
Enrollment as a retirement plan agent upon examination.
The Commissioner, or delegate, will grant enrollment as an enrolled retirement plan agent to an applicant eighteen years of age or older who demonstrates special competence in qualified retirement plan matters by written examination administered by, or administered under the oversight of, the Internal Revenue Service, who possesses a current or otherwise valid preparer tax identification number or other prescribed identifying number, and who has not engaged in any conduct that would justify the suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part.
(c) Designation as a registered tax return preparer. The Commissioner, or delegate, may designate an individual eighteen years of age or older as a registered tax return preparer provided an applicant demonstrates competence in Federal tax return preparation matters by written examination administered by, or administered under the oversight of, the Internal Revenue Service, or otherwise meets the requisite standards prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, possesses a current or otherwise valid preparer tax identification number or other prescribed identifying number, and has not engaged in any conduct that would justify the suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part.
Designation as a registered tax return preparer.
The Commissioner, or delegate, may designate an individual eighteen years of age or older as a registered tax return preparer provided an applicant demonstrates competence in Federal tax return preparation matters by written examination administered by, or administered under the oversight of, the Internal Revenue Service, or otherwise meets the requisite standards prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, possesses a current or otherwise valid preparer tax identification number or other prescribed identifying number, and has not engaged in any conduct that would justify the suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part.
(d) Enrollment of former Internal Revenue Service employees. The Commissioner, or delegate, may grant enrollment as an enrolled agent or enrolled retirement plan agent to an applicant who, by virtue of past service and technical experience in the Internal Revenue Service, has qualified for such enrollment and who has not engaged in any conduct that would justify the suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part, under the following circumstances:
Enrollment of former Internal Revenue Service employees.
The Commissioner, or delegate, may grant enrollment as an enrolled agent or enrolled retirement plan agent to an applicant who, by virtue of past service and technical experience in the Internal Revenue Service, has qualified for such enrollment and who has not engaged in any conduct that would justify the suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part, under the following circumstances:
(1) The former employee applies for enrollment on an Internal Revenue Service form and supplies the information requested on the form and such other information regarding the experience and training of the applicant as may be relevant.
(2) The appropriate office of the Internal Revenue Service provides a detailed report of the nature and rating of the applicant's work while employed by the Internal Revenue Service and a recommendation whether such employment qualifies the applicant technically or otherwise for the desired authorization.
(3) Enrollment as an enrolled agent based on an applicant's former employment with the Internal Revenue Service may be of unlimited scope or it may be limited to permit the presentation of matters only of the particular specialty or only before the particular unit or division of the Internal Revenue Service for which the applicant's former employment has qualified the applicant. Enrollment as an enrolled retirement plan agent based on an applicant's former employment with the Internal Revenue Service will be limited to permit the presentation of matters only with respect to qualified retirement plan matters.
(4) Application for enrollment as an enrolled agent or enrolled retirement plan agent based on an applicant's former employment with the Internal Revenue Service must be made within three years from the date of separation from such employment.
(5) An applicant for enrollment as an enrolled agent who is requesting such enrollment based on former employment with the Internal Revenue Service must have had a minimum of five years continuous employment with the Internal Revenue Service during which the applicant must have been regularly engaged in applying and interpreting the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations relating to income, estate, gift, employment, or excise taxes.
(6) An applicant for enrollment as an enrolled retirement plan agent who is requesting such enrollment based on former employment with the Internal Revenue Service must have had a minimum of five years continuous employment with the Internal Revenue Service during which the applicant must have been regularly engaged in applying and interpreting the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations relating to qualified retirement plan matters.
(7) For the purposes of paragraphs (d)(5) and (6) of this section, an aggregate of 10 or more years of employment in positions involving the application and interpretation of the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, at least three of which occurred within the five years preceding the date of application, is the equivalent of five years continuous employment.
(e) Natural persons. Enrollment or authorization to practice may be granted only to natural persons.
Natural persons.
Enrollment or authorization to practice may be granted only to natural persons.
(f) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32301, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.5   Application to become an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer.

(a) Form; address. An applicant to become an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer must apply as required by forms or procedures established and published by the Internal Revenue Service, including proper execution of required forms under oath or affirmation. The address on the application will be the address under which a successful applicant is enrolled or registered and is the address to which all correspondence concerning enrollment or registration will be sent.
Form; address.
An applicant to become an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer must apply as required by forms or procedures established and published by the Internal Revenue Service, including proper execution of required forms under oath or affirmation. The address on the application will be the address under which a successful applicant is enrolled or registered and is the address to which all correspondence concerning enrollment or registration will be sent.
(b) Fee. A reasonable nonrefundable fee may be charged for each application to become an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer. See 26 CFR part 300.
Fee.
A reasonable nonrefundable fee may be charged for each application to become an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer. See 26 CFR part 300.
(c) Additional information; examination. The Internal Revenue Service may require the applicant, as a condition to consideration of an application, to file additional information and to submit to any written or oral examination under oath or otherwise. Upon the applicant's written request, the Internal Revenue Service will afford the applicant the opportunity to be heard with respect to the application.
Additional information; examination.
The Internal Revenue Service may require the applicant, as a condition to consideration of an application, to file additional information and to submit to any written or oral examination under oath or otherwise. Upon the applicant's written request, the Internal Revenue Service will afford the applicant the opportunity to be heard with respect to the application.
(d) Compliance and suitability checks. (1) As a condition to consideration of an application, the Internal Revenue Service may conduct a Federal tax compliance check and suitability check. The tax compliance check will be limited to an inquiry regarding whether an applicant has filed all required individual or business tax returns and whether the applicant has failed to pay, or make proper arrangements with the Internal Revenue Service for payment of, any Federal tax debts. The suitability check will be limited to an inquiry regarding whether an applicant has engaged in any conduct that would justify suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part on the date the application is submitted, including whether the applicant has engaged in disreputable conduct as defined in § 10.51. The application will be denied only if the results of the compliance or suitability check are sufficient to establish that the practitioner engaged in conduct subject to sanctions under §§ 10.51 and 10.52.
Compliance and suitability checks.
(1) As a condition to consideration of an application, the Internal Revenue Service may conduct a Federal tax compliance check and suitability check. The tax compliance check will be limited to an inquiry regarding whether an applicant has filed all required individual or business tax returns and whether the applicant has failed to pay, or make proper arrangements with the Internal Revenue Service for payment of, any Federal tax debts. The suitability check will be limited to an inquiry regarding whether an applicant has engaged in any conduct that would justify suspension or disbarment of any practitioner under the provisions of this part on the date the application is submitted, including whether the applicant has engaged in disreputable conduct as defined in § 10.51. The application will be denied only if the results of the compliance or suitability check are sufficient to establish that the practitioner engaged in conduct subject to sanctions under §§ 10.51 and 10.52.
(2) If the applicant does not pass the tax compliance or suitability check, the applicant will not be issued an enrollment or registration card or certificate pursuant to § 10.6(b) of this part. An applicant who is initially denied enrollment or registration for failure to pass a tax compliance check may reapply after the initial denial if the applicant becomes current with respect to the applicant's tax liabilities.
(e) Temporary recognition. On receipt of a properly executed application, the Commissioner, or delegate, may grant the applicant temporary recognition to practice pending a determination as to whether status as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer should be granted. Temporary recognition will be granted only in unusual circumstances and it will not be granted, in any circumstance, if the application is not regular on its face, if the information stated in the application, if true, is not sufficient to warrant granting the application to practice, or the Commissioner, or delegate, has information indicating that the statements in the application are untrue or that the applicant would not otherwise qualify to become an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer. Issuance of temporary recognition does not constitute either a designation or a finding of eligibility as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer, and the temporary recognition may be withdrawn at any time.
Temporary recognition.
On receipt of a properly executed application, the Commissioner, or delegate, may grant the applicant temporary recognition to practice pending a determination as to whether status as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer should be granted. Temporary recognition will be granted only in unusual circumstances and it will not be granted, in any circumstance, if the application is not regular on its face, if the information stated in the application, if true, is not sufficient to warrant granting the application to practice, or the Commissioner, or delegate, has information indicating that the statements in the application are untrue or that the applicant would not otherwise qualify to become an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer. Issuance of temporary recognition does not constitute either a designation or a finding of eligibility as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer, and the temporary recognition may be withdrawn at any time.
(f) Protest of application denial. The applicant will be informed in writing as to the reason(s) for any denial of an application. The applicant may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of denial of the application, file a written protest of the denial as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, guidance, or other appropriate guidance. A protest under this section is not governed by subpart D of this part.
Protest of application denial.
The applicant will be informed in writing as to the reason(s) for any denial of an application. The applicant may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of denial of the application, file a written protest of the denial as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, guidance, or other appropriate guidance. A protest under this section is not governed by subpart D of this part.
(g) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable to applications received on or after August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable to applications received on or after August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 63 FR 32302, June 3, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 49650, Aug. 11, 2011]]

§ 10.6   Term and renewal of status as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer.

(a) Term. Each individual authorized to practice before the Internal Revenue Service as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer will be accorded active enrollment or registration status subject to renewal of enrollment or registration as provided in this part.
Term.
Each individual authorized to practice before the Internal Revenue Service as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer will be accorded active enrollment or registration status subject to renewal of enrollment or registration as provided in this part.
(b) Enrollment or registration card or certificate. The Internal Revenue Service will issue an enrollment or registration card or certificate to each individual whose application to practice before the Internal Revenue Service is approved. Each card or certificate will be valid for the period stated on the card or certificate. An enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer may not practice before the Internal Revenue Service if the card or certificate is not current or otherwise valid. The card or certificate is in addition to any notification that may be provided to each individual who obtains a preparer tax identification number.
Enrollment or registration card or certificate.
The Internal Revenue Service will issue an enrollment or registration card or certificate to each individual whose application to practice before the Internal Revenue Service is approved. Each card or certificate will be valid for the period stated on the card or certificate. An enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer may not practice before the Internal Revenue Service if the card or certificate is not current or otherwise valid. The card or certificate is in addition to any notification that may be provided to each individual who obtains a preparer tax identification number.
(c) Change of address. An enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer must send notification of any change of address to the address specified by the Internal Revenue Service within 60 days of the change of address. This notification must include the enrolled agent's, enrolled retirement plan agent's, or registered tax return preparer's name, prior address, new address, tax identification number(s) (including preparer tax identification number), and the date the change of address is effective. Unless this notification is sent, the address for purposes of any correspondence from the appropriate Internal Revenue Service office responsible for administering this part shall be the address reflected on the practitioner's most recent application for enrollment or registration, or application for renewal of enrollment or registration. A practitioner's change of address notification under this part will not constitute a change of the practitioner's last known address for purposes of section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder.
Change of address.
An enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer must send notification of any change of address to the address specified by the Internal Revenue Service within 60 days of the change of address. This notification must include the enrolled agent's, enrolled retirement plan agent's, or registered tax return preparer's name, prior address, new address, tax identification number(s) (including preparer tax identification number), and the date the change of address is effective. Unless this notification is sent, the address for purposes of any correspondence from the appropriate Internal Revenue Service office responsible for administering this part shall be the address reflected on the practitioner's most recent application for enrollment or registration, or application for renewal of enrollment or registration. A practitioner's change of address notification under this part will not constitute a change of the practitioner's last known address for purposes of section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder.
(d) Renewal—(1) In general. Enrolled agents, enrolled retirement plan agents, and registered tax return preparers must renew their status with the Internal Revenue Service to maintain eligibility to practice before the Internal Revenue Service. Failure to receive notification from the Internal Revenue Service of the renewal requirement will not be justification for the individual's failure to satisfy this requirement.
Renewal
—(1)
In general.
Enrolled agents, enrolled retirement plan agents, and registered tax return preparers must renew their status with the Internal Revenue Service to maintain eligibility to practice before the Internal Revenue Service. Failure to receive notification from the Internal Revenue Service of the renewal requirement will not be justification for the individual's failure to satisfy this requirement.
(2) Renewal period for enrolled agents. (i) All enrolled agents must renew their preparer tax identification number as prescribed by forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance.
Renewal period for enrolled agents.
(i) All enrolled agents must renew their preparer tax identification number as prescribed by forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance.
(ii) Enrolled agents who have a Social Security number or tax identification number that ends with the numbers 0, 1, 2, or 3, except for those individuals who received their initial enrollment after November 1, 2003, must apply for renewal between November 1, 2003, and January 31, 2004. The renewal will be effective April 1, 2004.
(iii) Enrolled agents who have a social security number or tax identification number that ends with the numbers 4, 5, or 6, except for those individuals who received their initial enrollment after November 1, 2004, must apply for renewal between November 1, 2004, and January 31, 2005. The renewal will be effective April 1, 2005.
(iv) Enrolled agents who have a social security number or tax identification number that ends with the numbers 7, 8, or 9, except for those individuals who received their initial enrollment after November 1, 2005, must apply for renewal between November 1, 2005, and January 31, 2006. The renewal will be effective April 1, 2006.
(v) Thereafter, applications for renewal as an enrolled agent will be required between November 1 and January 31 of every subsequent third year as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i), (d)(2)(ii), or (d)(2)(iii) of this section according to the last number of the individual's Social Security number or tax identification number. Those individuals who receive initial enrollment as an enrolled agent after November 1 and before April 2 of the applicable renewal period will not be required to renew their enrollment before the first full renewal period following the receipt of their initial enrollment.
(3) Renewal period for enrolled retirement plan agents. (i) All enrolled retirement plan agents must renew their preparer tax identification number as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance.
Renewal period for enrolled retirement plan agents.
(i) All enrolled retirement plan agents must renew their preparer tax identification number as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance.
(ii) Enrolled retirement plan agents will be required to renew their status as enrolled retirement plan agents between April 1 and June 30 of every third year subsequent to their initial enrollment.
(4) Renewal period for registered tax return preparers. Registered tax return preparers must renew their preparer tax identification number and their status as a registered tax return preparer as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance.
Renewal period for registered tax return preparers.
Registered tax return preparers must renew their preparer tax identification number and their status as a registered tax return preparer as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance.
(5) Notification of renewal. After review and approval, the Internal Revenue Service will notify the individual of the renewal and will issue the individual a card or certificate evidencing current status as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer.
Notification of renewal.
After review and approval, the Internal Revenue Service will notify the individual of the renewal and will issue the individual a card or certificate evidencing current status as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer.
(6) Fee. A reasonable nonrefundable fee may be charged for each application for renewal filed. See 26 CFR part 300.
Fee.
A reasonable nonrefundable fee may be charged for each application for renewal filed. See 26 CFR part 300.
(7) Forms. Forms required for renewal may be obtained by sending a written request to the address specified by the Internal Revenue Service or from such other source as the Internal Revenue Service will publish in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see 26 CFR 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b)) and on the Internal Revenue Service webpage (http://www.irs.gov).
Forms.
Forms required for renewal may be obtained by sending a written request to the address specified by the Internal Revenue Service or from such other source as the Internal Revenue Service will publish in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see 26 CFR 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
)) and on the Internal Revenue Service webpage (
http://www.irs.gov
).
(e) Condition for renewal: continuing education. In order to qualify for renewal as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer, an individual must certify, in the manner prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, that the individual has satisfied the requisite number of continuing education hours.
Condition for renewal: continuing education.
In order to qualify for renewal as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer, an individual must certify, in the manner prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, that the individual has satisfied the requisite number of continuing education hours.
(1) Definitions. For purposes of this section—
Definitions.
For purposes of this section—
(i) Enrollment year means January 1 to December 31 of each year of an enrollment cycle.
Enrollment year
means January 1 to December 31 of each year of an enrollment cycle.
(ii) Enrollment cycle means the three successive enrollment years preceding the effective date of renewal.
Enrollment cycle
means the three successive enrollment years preceding the effective date of renewal.
(iii) Registration year means each 12-month period the registered tax return preparer is authorized to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
Registration year
means each 12-month period the registered tax return preparer is authorized to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(iv) The effective date of renewal is the first day of the fourth month following the close of the period for renewal described in paragraph (d) of this section.
effective date of renewal
is the first day of the fourth month following the close of the period for renewal described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) For renewed enrollment as an enrolled agent or enrolled retirement plan agent—(i) Requirements for enrollment cycle. A minimum of 72 hours of continuing education credit, including six hours of ethics or professional conduct, must be completed during each enrollment cycle.
For renewed enrollment as an enrolled agent or enrolled retirement plan agent
—(i)
Requirements for enrollment cycle.
A minimum of 72 hours of continuing education credit, including six hours of ethics or professional conduct, must be completed during each enrollment cycle.
(ii) Requirements for enrollment year. A minimum of 16 hours of continuing education credit, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct, must be completed during each enrollment year of an enrollment cycle.
Requirements for enrollment year.
A minimum of 16 hours of continuing education credit, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct, must be completed during each enrollment year of an enrollment cycle.
(iii) Enrollment during enrollment cycle—(A) In general. Subject to paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, an individual who receives initial enrollment during an enrollment cycle must complete two hours of qualifying continuing education credit for each month enrolled during the enrollment cycle. Enrollment for any part of a month is considered enrollment for the entire month.
Enrollment during enrollment cycle
—(A)
In general.
Subject to paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, an individual who receives initial enrollment during an enrollment cycle must complete two hours of qualifying continuing education credit for each month enrolled during the enrollment cycle. Enrollment for any part of a month is considered enrollment for the entire month.
(B) Ethics. An individual who receives initial enrollment during an enrollment cycle must complete two hours of ethics or professional conduct for each enrollment year during the enrollment cycle. Enrollment for any part of an enrollment year is considered enrollment for the entire year.
Ethics.
An individual who receives initial enrollment during an enrollment cycle must complete two hours of ethics or professional conduct for each enrollment year during the enrollment cycle. Enrollment for any part of an enrollment year is considered enrollment for the entire year.
(3) Requirements for renewal as a registered tax return preparer. A minimum of 15 hours of continuing education credit, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct, three hours of Federal tax law updates, and 10 hours of Federal tax law topics, must be completed during each registration year.
Requirements for renewal as a registered tax return preparer.
A minimum of 15 hours of continuing education credit, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct, three hours of Federal tax law updates, and 10 hours of Federal tax law topics, must be completed during each registration year.
(f) Qualifying continuing education—(1) General—(i) Enrolled agents. To qualify for continuing education credit for an enrolled agent, a course of learning must—
Qualifying continuing education
—(1)
General
—(i)
Enrolled agents.
To qualify for continuing education credit for an enrolled agent, a course of learning must—
(A) Be a qualifying continuing education program designed to enhance professional knowledge in Federal taxation or Federal tax related matters (programs comprised of current subject matter in Federal taxation or Federal tax related matters, including accounting, tax return preparation software, taxation, or ethics); and
(B) Be a qualifying continuing education program consistent with the Internal Revenue Code and effective tax administration.
(ii) Enrolled retirement plan agents. To qualify for continuing education credit for an enrolled retirement plan agent, a course of learning must—
Enrolled retirement plan agents.
To qualify for continuing education credit for an enrolled retirement plan agent, a course of learning must—
(A) Be a qualifying continuing education program designed to enhance professional knowledge in qualified retirement plan matters; and
(B) Be a qualifying continuing education program consistent with the Internal Revenue Code and effective tax administration.
(iii) Registered tax return preparers. To qualify for continuing education credit for a registered tax return preparer, a course of learning must—
Registered tax return preparers.
To qualify for continuing education credit for a registered tax return preparer, a course of learning must—
(A) Be a qualifying continuing education program designed to enhance professional knowledge in Federal taxation or Federal tax related matters (programs comprised of current subject matter in Federal taxation or Federal tax related matters, including accounting, tax return preparation software, taxation, or ethics); and
(B) Be a qualifying continuing education program consistent with the Internal Revenue Code and effective tax administration.
(2) Qualifying programs—(i) Formal programs. A formal program qualifies as a continuing education program if it—
Qualifying programs
—(i)
Formal programs.
A formal program qualifies as a continuing education program if it—
(A) Requires attendance and provides each attendee with a certificate of attendance;
(B) Is conducted by a qualified instructor, discussion leader, or speaker (in other words, a person whose background, training, education, and experience is appropriate for instructing or leading a discussion on the subject matter of the particular program);
(C) Provides or requires a written outline, textbook, or suitable electronic educational materials; and
(D) Satisfies the requirements established for a qualified continuing education program pursuant to § 10.9.
(ii) Correspondence or individual study programs (including taped programs). Qualifying continuing education programs include correspondence or individual study programs that are conducted by continuing education providers and completed on an individual basis by the enrolled individual. The allowable credit hours for such programs will be measured on a basis comparable to the measurement of a seminar or course for credit in an accredited educational institution. Such programs qualify as continuing education programs only if they—
Correspondence or individual study programs (including taped programs).
Qualifying continuing education programs include correspondence or individual study programs that are conducted by continuing education providers and completed on an individual basis by the enrolled individual. The allowable credit hours for such programs will be measured on a basis comparable to the measurement of a seminar or course for credit in an accredited educational institution. Such programs qualify as continuing education programs only if they—
(A) Require registration of the participants by the continuing education provider;
(B) Provide a means for measuring successful completion by the participants (for example, a written examination), including the issuance of a certificate of completion by the continuing education provider;
(C) Provide a written outline, textbook, or suitable electronic educational materials; and
(D) Satisfy the requirements established for a qualified continuing education program pursuant to § 10.9.
(iii) Serving as an instructor, discussion leader or speaker. (A) One hour of continuing education credit will be awarded for each contact hour completed as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker at an educational program that meets the continuing education requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.
Serving as an instructor, discussion leader or speaker.
(A) One hour of continuing education credit will be awarded for each contact hour completed as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker at an educational program that meets the continuing education requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.
(B) A maximum of two hours of continuing education credit will be awarded for actual subject preparation time for each contact hour completed as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker at such programs. It is the responsibility of the individual claiming such credit to maintain records to verify preparation time.
(C) The maximum continuing education credit for instruction and preparation may not exceed four hours annually for registered tax return preparers and six hours annually for enrolled agents and enrolled retirement plan agents.
(D) An instructor, discussion leader, or speaker who makes more than one presentation on the same subject matter during an enrollment cycle or registration year will receive continuing education credit for only one such presentation for the enrollment cycle or registration year.
(3) Periodic examination. Enrolled Agents and Enrolled Retirement Plan Agents may establish eligibility for renewal of enrollment for any enrollment cycle by—
Periodic examination.
Enrolled Agents and Enrolled Retirement Plan Agents may establish eligibility for renewal of enrollment for any enrollment cycle by—
(i) Achieving a passing score on each part of the Special Enrollment Examination administered under this part during the three year period prior to renewal; and
(ii) Completing a minimum of 16 hours of qualifying continuing education during the last year of an enrollment cycle.
(g) Measurement of continuing education coursework. (1) All continuing education programs will be measured in terms of contact hours. The shortest recognized program will be one contact hour.
Measurement of continuing education coursework.
(1) All continuing education programs will be measured in terms of contact hours. The shortest recognized program will be one contact hour.
(2) A contact hour is 50 minutes of continuous participation in a program. Credit is granted only for a full contact hour, which is 50 minutes or multiples thereof. For example, a program lasting more than 50 minutes but less than 100 minutes will count as only one contact hour.
(3) Individual segments at continuous conferences, conventions and the like will be considered one total program. For example, two 90-minute segments (180 minutes) at a continuous conference will count as three contact hours.
(4) For university or college courses, each semester hour credit will equal 15 contact hours and a quarter hour credit will equal 10 contact hours.
(h) Recordkeeping requirements. (1) Each individual applying for renewal must retain for a period of four years following the date of renewal the information required with regard to qualifying continuing education credit hours. Such information includes—
Recordkeeping requirements.
(1) Each individual applying for renewal must retain for a period of four years following the date of renewal the information required with regard to qualifying continuing education credit hours. Such information includes—
(i) The name of the sponsoring organization;
(ii) The location of the program;
(iii) The title of the program, qualified program number, and description of its content;
(iv) Written outlines, course syllibi, textbook, and/or electronic materials provided or required for the course;
(v) The dates attended;
(vi) The credit hours claimed;
(vii) The name(s) of the instructor(s), discussion leader(s), or speaker(s), if appropriate; and
(viii) The certificate of completion and/or signed statement of the hours of attendance obtained from the continuing education provider.
(2) To receive continuing education credit for service completed as an instructor, discussion leader, or speaker, the following information must be maintained for a period of four years following the date of renewal—
(i) The name of the sponsoring organization;
(ii) The location of the program;
(iii) The title of the program and copy of its content;
(iv) The dates of the program; and
(v) The credit hours claimed.
(i) Waivers. (1) Waiver from the continuing education requirements for a given period may be granted for the following reasons—
Waivers.
(1) Waiver from the continuing education requirements for a given period may be granted for the following reasons—
(i) Health, which prevented compliance with the continuing education requirements;
(ii) Extended active military duty;
(iii) Absence from the United States for an extended period of time due to employment or other reasons, provided the individual does not practice before the Internal Revenue Service during such absence; and
(iv) Other compelling reasons, which will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
(2) A request for waiver must be accompanied by appropriate documentation. The individual is required to furnish any additional documentation or explanation deemed necessary. Examples of appropriate documentation could be a medical certificate or military orders.
(3) A request for waiver must be filed no later than the last day of the renewal application period.
(4) If a request for waiver is not approved, the individual will be placed in inactive status. The individual will be notified that the waiver was not approved and that the individual has been placed on a roster of inactive enrolled agents, enrolled retirement plan agents, or registered tax return preparers.
(5) If the request for waiver is not approved, the individual may file a protest as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance. A protest filed under this section is not governed by subpart D of this part.
(6) If a request for waiver is approved, the individual will be notified and issued a card or certificate evidencing renewal.
(7) Those who are granted waivers are required to file timely applications for renewal of enrollment or registration.
(j) Failure to comply. (1) Compliance by an individual with the requirements of this part is determined by the Internal Revenue Service. The Internal Revenue Service will provide notice to any individual who fails to meet the continuing education and fee requirements of eligibility for renewal. The notice will state the basis for the determination of noncompliance and will provide the individual an opportunity to furnish the requested information in writing relating to the matter within 60 days of the date of the notice. Such information will be considered in making a final determination as to eligibility for renewal. The individual must be informed of the reason(s) for any denial of a renewal. The individual may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of denial of renewal, file a written protest of the denial as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance. A protest under this section is not governed by subpart D of this part.
Failure to comply.
(1) Compliance by an individual with the requirements of this part is determined by the Internal Revenue Service. The Internal Revenue Service will provide notice to any individual who fails to meet the continuing education and fee requirements of eligibility for renewal. The notice will state the basis for the determination of noncompliance and will provide the individual an opportunity to furnish the requested information in writing relating to the matter within 60 days of the date of the notice. Such information will be considered in making a final determination as to eligibility for renewal. The individual must be informed of the reason(s) for any denial of a renewal. The individual may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of denial of renewal, file a written protest of the denial as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance. A protest under this section is not governed by subpart D of this part.
(2) The continuing education records of an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer may be reviewed to determine compliance with the requirements and standards for renewal as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. As part of this review, the enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent or registered tax return preparer may be required to provide the Internal Revenue Service with copies of any continuing education records required to be maintained under this part. If the enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent or registered tax return preparer fails to comply with this requirement, any continuing education hours claimed may be disallowed.
(3) An individual who has not filed a timely application for renewal, who has not made a timely response to the notice of noncompliance with the renewal requirements, or who has not satisfied the requirements of eligibility for renewal will be placed on a roster of inactive enrolled individuals or inactive registered individuals. During this time, the individual will be ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(4) Individuals placed in inactive status and individuals ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service may not state or imply that they are eligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service, or use the terms enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer, the designations “EA” or “ERPA” or other form of reference to eligibility to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(5) An individual placed in inactive status may be reinstated to an active status by filing an application for renewal and providing evidence of the completion of all required continuing education hours for the enrollment cycle or registration year. Continuing education credit under this paragraph (j)(5) may not be used to satisfy the requirements of the enrollment cycle or registration year in which the individual has been placed back on the active roster.
(6) An individual placed in inactive status must file an application for renewal and satisfy the requirements for renewal as set forth in this section within three years of being placed in inactive status. Otherwise, the name of such individual will be removed from the inactive status roster and the individual's status as an enrolled agent, enrolled retirement plan agent, or registered tax return preparer will terminate. Future eligibility for active status must then be reestablished by the individual as provided in this section.
(7) Inactive status is not available to an individual who is the subject of a pending disciplinary matter before the Internal Revenue Service.
(k) Inactive retirement status. An individual who no longer practices before the Internal Revenue Service may request to be placed in an inactive retirement status at any time and such individual will be placed in an inactive retirement status. The individual will be ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service. An individual who is placed in an inactive retirement status may be reinstated to an active status by filing an application for renewal and providing evidence of the completion of the required continuing education hours for the enrollment cycle or registration year. Inactive retirement status is not available to an individual who is ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service or an individual who is the subject of a pending disciplinary matter under this part.
Inactive retirement status.
An individual who no longer practices before the Internal Revenue Service may request to be placed in an inactive retirement status at any time and such individual will be placed in an inactive retirement status. The individual will be ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service. An individual who is placed in an inactive retirement status may be reinstated to an active status by filing an application for renewal and providing evidence of the completion of the required continuing education hours for the enrollment cycle or registration year. Inactive retirement status is not available to an individual who is ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service or an individual who is the subject of a pending disciplinary matter under this part.
(l) Renewal while under suspension or disbarment. An individual who is ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service by virtue of disciplinary action under this part is required to conform to the requirements for renewal of enrollment or registration before the individual's eligibility is restored.
Renewal while under suspension or disbarment.
An individual who is ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service by virtue of disciplinary action under this part is required to conform to the requirements for renewal of enrollment or registration before the individual's eligibility is restored.
(m) Enrolled actuaries. The enrollment and renewal of enrollment of actuaries authorized to practice under paragraph (d) of § 10.3 are governed by the regulations of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries at 20 CFR 901.1 through 901.72.
Enrolled actuaries.
The enrollment and renewal of enrollment of actuaries authorized to practice under paragraph (d) of § 10.3 are governed by the regulations of the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries at 20 CFR 901.1 through 901.72.
(n) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable to enrollment or registration effective beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable to enrollment or registration effective beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32302, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.7   Representing oneself; participating in rulemaking; limited practice; and special appearances.

(a) Representing oneself. Individuals may appear on their own behalf before the Internal Revenue Service provided they present satisfactory identification.
Representing oneself.
Individuals may appear on their own behalf before the Internal Revenue Service provided they present satisfactory identification.
(b) Participating in rulemaking. Individuals may participate in rulemaking as provided by the Administrative Procedure Act. See 5 U.S.C. 553.
Participating in rulemaking.
Individuals may participate in rulemaking as provided by the Administrative Procedure Act.
See
5 U.S.C. 553.
(c) Limited practice—(1) In general. Subject to the limitations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an individual who is not a practitioner may represent a taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service in the circumstances described in this paragraph (c)(1), even if the taxpayer is not present, provided the individual presents satisfactory identification and proof of his or her authority to represent the taxpayer. The circumstances described in this paragraph (c)(1) are as follows:
Limited practice
—(1)
In general.
Subject to the limitations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an individual who is not a practitioner may represent a taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service in the circumstances described in this paragraph (c)(1), even if the taxpayer is not present, provided the individual presents satisfactory identification and proof of his or her authority to represent the taxpayer. The circumstances described in this paragraph (c)(1) are as follows:
(i) An individual may represent a member of his or her immediate family.
(ii) A regular full-time employee of an individual employer may represent the employer.
(iii) A general partner or a regular full-time employee of a partnership may represent the partnership.
(iv) A bona fide officer or a regular full-time employee of a corporation (including a parent, subsidiary, or other affiliated corporation), association, or organized group may represent the corporation, association, or organized group.
(v) A regular full-time employee of a trust, receivership, guardianship, or estate may represent the trust, receivership, guardianship, or estate.
(vi) An officer or a regular employee of a governmental unit, agency, or authority may represent the governmental unit, agency, or authority in the course of his or her official duties.
(vii) An individual may represent any individual or entity, who is outside the United States, before personnel of the Internal Revenue Service when such representation takes place outside the United States.
(2) Limitations. (i) An individual who is under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may not engage in limited practice before the Internal Revenue Service under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
Limitations.
(i) An individual who is under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Internal Revenue Service may not engage in limited practice before the Internal Revenue Service under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii) The Commissioner, or delegate, may, after notice and opportunity for a conference, deny eligibility to engage in limited practice before the Internal Revenue Service under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to any individual who has engaged in conduct that would justify a sanction under § 10.50.
(iii) An individual who represents a taxpayer under the authority of paragraph (c)(1) of this section is subject, to the extent of his or her authority, to such rules of general applicability regarding standards of conduct and other matters as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service.
(d) Special appearances. The Commissioner, or delegate, may, subject to conditions deemed appropriate, authorize an individual who is not otherwise eligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service to represent another person in a particular matter.
Special appearances.
The Commissioner, or delegate, may, subject to conditions deemed appropriate, authorize an individual who is not otherwise eligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service to represent another person in a particular matter.
(e) Fiduciaries. For purposes of this part, a fiduciary (for example, a trustee, receiver, guardian, personal representative, administrator, or executor) is considered to be the taxpayer and not a representative of the taxpayer.
Fiduciaries.
For purposes of this part, a fiduciary (for example, a trustee, receiver, guardian, personal representative, administrator, or executor) is considered to be the taxpayer and not a representative of the taxpayer.
(f) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54544, 54547, Sept. 26, 2007; T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32305, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.8   Return preparation and application of rules to other individuals.

(a) Preparing all or substantially all of a tax return. Any individual who for compensation prepares or assists with the preparation of all or substantially all of a tax return or claim for refund must have a preparer tax identification number. Except as otherwise prescribed in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance, an individual must be an attorney, certified public accountant, enrolled agent, or registered tax return preparer to obtain a preparer tax identification number. Any individual who for compensation prepares or assists with the preparation of all or substantially all of a tax return or claim for refund is subject to the duties and restrictions relating to practice in subpart B, as well as subject to the sanctions for violation of the regulations in subpart C.
Preparing all or substantially all of a tax return.
Any individual who for compensation prepares or assists with the preparation of all or substantially all of a tax return or claim for refund must have a preparer tax identification number. Except as otherwise prescribed in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance, an individual must be an attorney, certified public accountant, enrolled agent, or registered tax return preparer to obtain a preparer tax identification number. Any individual who for compensation prepares or assists with the preparation of all or substantially all of a tax return or claim for refund is subject to the duties and restrictions relating to practice in subpart B, as well as subject to the sanctions for violation of the regulations in subpart C.
(b) Preparing a tax return and furnishing information. Any individual may for compensation prepare or assist with the preparation of a tax return or claim for refund (provided the individual prepares less than substantially all of the tax return or claim for refund), appear as a witness for the taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service, or furnish information at the request of the Internal Revenue Service or any of its officers or employees.
Preparing a tax return and furnishing information.
Any individual may for compensation prepare or assist with the preparation of a tax return or claim for refund (provided the individual prepares less than substantially all of the tax return or claim for refund), appear as a witness for the taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service, or furnish information at the request of the Internal Revenue Service or any of its officers or employees.
(c) Application of rules to other individuals. Any individual who for compensation prepares, or assists in the preparation of, all or a substantial portion of a document pertaining to any taxpayer's tax liability for submission to the Internal Revenue Service is subject to the duties and restrictions relating to practice in subpart B, as well as subject to the sanctions for violation of the regulations in subpart C. Unless otherwise a practitioner, however, an individual may not for compensation prepare, or assist in the preparation of, all or substantially all of a tax return or claim for refund, or sign tax returns and claims for refund. For purposes of this paragraph, an individual described in 26 CFR 301.7701-15(f) is not treated as having prepared all or a substantial portion of the document by reason of such assistance.
Application of rules to other individuals.
Any individual who for compensation prepares, or assists in the preparation of, all or a substantial portion of a document pertaining to any taxpayer's tax liability for submission to the Internal Revenue Service is subject to the duties and restrictions relating to practice in subpart B, as well as subject to the sanctions for violation of the regulations in subpart C. Unless otherwise a practitioner, however, an individual may not for compensation prepare, or assist in the preparation of, all or substantially all of a tax return or claim for refund, or sign tax returns and claims for refund. For purposes of this paragraph, an individual described in 26 CFR 301.7701-15(f) is not treated as having prepared all or a substantial portion of the document by reason of such assistance.
(d) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32306, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.9   Continuing education providers and continuing education programs.

(a) Continuing education providers—(1) In general. Continuing education providers are those responsible for presenting continuing education programs. A continuing education provider must—
Continuing education providers
—(1)
In general.
Continuing education providers are those responsible for presenting continuing education programs. A continuing education provider must—
(i) Be an accredited educational institution;
(ii) Be recognized for continuing education purposes by the licensing body of any State, territory, or possession of the United States, including a Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia;
(iii) Be recognized and approved by a qualifying organization as a provider of continuing education on subject matters within § 10.6(f) of this part. The Internal Revenue Service may, at its discretion, identify a professional organization, society or business entity that maintains minimum education standards comparable to those set forth in this part as a qualifying organization for purposes of this part in appropriate forms, instructions, and other appropriate guidance; or
(iv) Be recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a professional organization, society, or business whose programs include offering continuing professional education opportunities in subject matters within § 10.6(f) of this part. The Internal Revenue Service, at its discretion, may require such professional organizations, societies, or businesses to file an agreement and/or obtain Internal Revenue Service approval of each program as a qualified continuing education program in appropriate forms, instructions or other appropriate guidance.
(2) Continuing education provider numbers—(i) In general. A continuing education provider is required to obtain a continuing education provider number and pay any applicable user fee.
Continuing education provider numbers
—(i)
In general.
A continuing education provider is required to obtain a continuing education provider number and pay any applicable user fee.
(ii) Renewal. A continuing education provider maintains its status as a continuing education provider during the continuing education provider cycle by renewing its continuing education provider number as prescribed by forms, instructions or other appropriate guidance and paying any applicable user fee.
Renewal.
A continuing education provider maintains its status as a continuing education provider during the continuing education provider cycle by renewing its continuing education provider number as prescribed by forms, instructions or other appropriate guidance and paying any applicable user fee.
(3) Requirements for qualified continuing education programs. A continuing education provider must ensure the qualified continuing education program complies with all the following requirements—
Requirements for qualified continuing education programs.
A continuing education provider must ensure the qualified continuing education program complies with all the following requirements—
(i) Programs must be developed by individual(s) qualified in the subject matter;
(ii) Program subject matter must be current;
(iii) Instructors, discussion leaders, and speakers must be qualified with respect to program content;
(iv) Programs must include some means for evaluation of the technical content and presentation to be evaluated;
(v) Certificates of completion bearing a current qualified continuing education program number issued by the Internal Revenue Service must be provided to the participants who successfully complete the program; and
(vi) Records must be maintained by the continuing education provider to verify the participants who attended and completed the program for a period of four years following completion of the program. In the case of continuous conferences, conventions, and the like, records must be maintained to verify completion of the program and attendance by each participant at each segment of the program.
(4) Program numbers—(i) In general. Every continuing education provider is required to obtain a continuing education provider program number and pay any applicable user fee for each program offered. Program numbers shall be obtained as prescribed by forms, instructions or other appropriate guidance. Although, at the discretion of the Internal Revenue Service, a continuing education provider may be required to demonstrate that the program is designed to enhance professional knowledge in Federal taxation or Federal tax related matters (programs comprised of current subject matter in Federal taxation or Federal tax related matters, including accounting, tax return preparation software, taxation, or ethics) and complies with the requirements in paragraph (a)(2)of this section before a program number is issued.
Program numbers
—(i)
In general.
Every continuing education provider is required to obtain a continuing education provider program number and pay any applicable user fee for each program offered. Program numbers shall be obtained as prescribed by forms, instructions or other appropriate guidance. Although, at the discretion of the Internal Revenue Service, a continuing education provider may be required to demonstrate that the program is designed to enhance professional knowledge in Federal taxation or Federal tax related matters (programs comprised of current subject matter in Federal taxation or Federal tax related matters, including accounting, tax return preparation software, taxation, or ethics) and complies with the requirements in paragraph (a)(2)of this section before a program number is issued.
(ii) Update programs. Update programs may use the same number as the program subject to update. An update program is a program that instructs on a change of existing law occurring within one year of the update program offering. The qualifying education program subject to update must have been offered within the two year time period prior to the change in existing law.
Update programs.
Update programs may use the same number as the program subject to update. An update program is a program that instructs on a change of existing law occurring within one year of the update program offering. The qualifying education program subject to update must have been offered within the two year time period prior to the change in existing law.
(iii) Change in existing law. A change in existing law means the effective date of the statute or regulation, or date of entry of judicial decision, that is the subject of the update.
Change in existing law.
A change in existing law means the effective date of the statute or regulation, or date of entry of judicial decision, that is the subject of the update.
(b) Failure to comply. Compliance by a continuing education provider with the requirements of this part is determined by the Internal Revenue Service. A continuing education provider who fails to meet the requirements of this part will be notified by the Internal Revenue Service. The notice will state the basis for the determination of noncompliance and will provide the continuing education provider an opportunity to furnish the requested information in writing relating to the matter within 60 days of the date of the notice. The continuing education provider may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of denial, file a written protest as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance. A protest under this section is not governed by subpart D of this part.
Failure to comply.
Compliance by a continuing education provider with the requirements of this part is determined by the Internal Revenue Service. A continuing education provider who fails to meet the requirements of this part will be notified by the Internal Revenue Service. The notice will state the basis for the determination of noncompliance and will provide the continuing education provider an opportunity to furnish the requested information in writing relating to the matter within 60 days of the date of the notice. The continuing education provider may, within 30 days after receipt of the notice of denial, file a written protest as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service in forms, instructions, or other appropriate guidance. A protest under this section is not governed by subpart D of this part.
(c) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32306, June 3, 2011]]

Subpart B—Duties and Restrictions Relating to Practice Before the Internal Revenue Service

[Source:T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48771, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48771, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

§ 10.20   Information to be furnished.

(a) To the Internal Revenue Service. (1) A practitioner must, on a proper and lawful request by a duly authorized officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service, promptly submit records or information in any matter before the Internal Revenue Service unless the practitioner believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that the records or information are privileged.
To the Internal Revenue Service.
(1) A practitioner must, on a proper and lawful request by a duly authorized officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service, promptly submit records or information in any matter before the Internal Revenue Service unless the practitioner believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that the records or information are privileged.
(2) Where the requested records or information are not in the possession of, or subject to the control of, the practitioner or the practitioner's client, the practitioner must promptly notify the requesting Internal Revenue Service officer or employee and the practitioner must provide any information that the practitioner has regarding the identity of any person who the practitioner believes may have possession or control of the requested records or information. The practitioner must make reasonable inquiry of his or her client regarding the identity of any person who may have possession or control of the requested records or information, but the practitioner is not required to make inquiry of any other person or independently verify any information provided by the practitioner's client regarding the identity of such persons.
(3) When a proper and lawful request is made by a duly authorized officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service, concerning an inquiry into an alleged violation of the regulations in this part, a practitioner must provide any information the practitioner has concerning the alleged violation and testify regarding this information in any proceeding instituted under this part, unless the practitioner believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that the information is privileged.
(b) Interference with a proper and lawful request for records or information. A practitioner may not interfere, or attempt to interfere, with any proper and lawful effort by the Internal Revenue Service, its officers or employees, to obtain any record or information unless the practitioner believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that the record or information is privileged.
Interference with a proper and lawful request for records or information.
A practitioner may not interfere, or attempt to interfere, with any proper and lawful effort by the Internal Revenue Service, its officers or employees, to obtain any record or information unless the practitioner believes in good faith and on reasonable grounds that the record or information is privileged.
(c) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48771, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32307, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.21   Knowledge of client's omission.

A practitioner who, having been retained by a client with respect to a matter administered by the Internal Revenue Service, knows that the client has not complied with the revenue laws of the United States or has made an error in or omission from any return, document, affidavit, or other paper which the client submitted or executed under the revenue laws of the United States, must advise the client promptly of the fact of such noncompliance, error, or omission. The practitioner must advise the client of the consequences as provided under the Code and regulations of such noncompliance, error, or omission.

§ 10.22   Diligence as to accuracy.

(a) In general. A practitioner must exercise due diligence—
In general.
A practitioner must exercise due diligence—
(1) In preparing or assisting in the preparation of, approving, and filing tax returns, documents, affidavits, and other papers relating to Internal Revenue Service matters;
(2) In determining the correctness of oral or written representations made by the practitioner to the Department of the Treasury; and
(3) In determining the correctness of oral or written representations made by the practitioner to clients with reference to any matter administered by the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) Reliance on others. Except as modified by §§ 10.34 and 10.37, a practitioner will be presumed to have exercised due diligence for purposes of this section if the practitioner relies on the work product of another person and the practitioner used reasonable care in engaging, supervising, training, and evaluating the person, taking proper account of the nature of the relationship between the practitioner and the person.
Reliance on others.
Except as modified by §§ 10.34 and 10.37, a practitioner will be presumed to have exercised due diligence for purposes of this section if the practitioner relies on the work product of another person and the practitioner used reasonable care in engaging, supervising, training, and evaluating the person, taking proper account of the nature of the relationship between the practitioner and the person.
(c) Effective/applicability date. Paragraph (a) of this section is applicable on September 26, 2007. Paragraph (b) of this section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
Effective/applicability date.
Paragraph (a) of this section is applicable on September 26, 2007. Paragraph (b) of this section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54547, Sept. 26, 2007; T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33693, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.23   Prompt disposition of pending matters.

A practitioner may not unreasonably delay the prompt disposition of any matter before the Internal Revenue Service.

§ 10.24   Assistance from or to disbarred or suspended persons and former Internal Revenue Service employees.

A practitioner may not, knowingly and directly or indirectly:
(a) Accept assistance from or assist any person who is under disbarment or suspension from practice before the Internal Revenue Service if the assistance relates to a matter or matters constituting practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) Accept assistance from any former government employee where the provisions of § 10.25 or any Federal law would be violated.

§ 10.25   Practice by former government employees, their partners and their associates.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section—
Definitions.
For purposes of this section—
(1) Assist means to act in such a way as to advise, furnish information to, or otherwise aid another person, directly, or indirectly.
Assist
means to act in such a way as to advise, furnish information to, or otherwise aid another person, directly, or indirectly.
(2) Government employee is an officer or employee of the United States or any agency of the United States, including a special Government employee as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202(a), or of the District of Columbia, or of any State, or a member of Congress or of any State legislature.
Government employee
is an officer or employee of the United States or any agency of the United States, including a special Government employee as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202(a), or of the District of Columbia, or of any State, or a member of Congress or of any State legislature.
(3) Member of a firm is a sole practitioner or an employee or associate thereof, or a partner, stockholder, associate, affiliate or employee of a partnership, joint venture, corporation, professional association or other affiliation of two or more practitioners who represent nongovernmental parties.
Member of a firm
is a sole practitioner or an employee or associate thereof, or a partner, stockholder, associate, affiliate or employee of a partnership, joint venture, corporation, professional association or other affiliation of two or more practitioners who represent nongovernmental parties.
(4) Particular matter involving specific parties is defined at 5 CFR 2637.201(c), or superseding post-employment regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Government Ethics.
Particular matter involving specific parties
is defined at 5 CFR 2637.201(c), or superseding post-employment regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Government Ethics.
(5) Rule includes Treasury regulations, whether issued or under preparation for issuance as notices of proposed rulemaking or as Treasury decisions, revenue rulings, and revenue procedures published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see 26 CFR 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b)).
Rule
includes Treasury regulations, whether issued or under preparation for issuance as notices of proposed rulemaking or as Treasury decisions, revenue rulings, and revenue procedures published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see 26 CFR 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
)).
(b) General rules. (1) No former Government employee may, subsequent to Government employment, represent anyone in any matter administered by the Internal Revenue Service if the representation would violate 18 U.S.C. 207 or any other laws of the United States.
General rules.
(1) No former Government employee may, subsequent to Government employment, represent anyone in any matter administered by the Internal Revenue Service if the representation would violate 18 U.S.C. 207 or any other laws of the United States.
(2) No former Government employee who personally and substantially participated in a particular matter involving specific parties may, subsequent to Government employment, represent or knowingly assist, in that particular matter, any person who is or was a specific party to that particular matter.
(3) A former Government employee who within a period of one year prior to the termination of Government employment had official responsibility for a particular matter involving specific parties may not, within two years after Government employment is ended, represent in that particular matter any person who is or was a specific party to that particular matter.
(4) No former Government employee may, within one year after Government employment is ended, communicate with or appear before, with the intent to influence, any employee of the Treasury Department in connection with the publication, withdrawal, amendment, modification, or interpretation of a rule the development of which the former Government employee participated in, or for which, within a period of one year prior to the termination of Government employment, the former government employee had official responsibility. This paragraph (b)(4) does not, however, preclude any former employee from appearing on one's own behalf or from representing a taxpayer before the Internal Revenue Service in connection with a particular matter involving specific parties involving the application or interpretation of a rule with respect to that particular matter, provided that the representation is otherwise consistent with the other provisions of this section and the former employee does not utilize or disclose any confidential information acquired by the former employee in the development of the rule.
(c) Firm representation. (1) No member of a firm of which a former Government employee is a member may represent or knowingly assist a person who was or is a specific party in any particular matter with respect to which the restrictions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section apply to the former Government employee, in that particular matter, unless the firm isolates the former Government employee in such a way to ensure that the former Government employee cannot assist in the representation.
Firm representation.
(1) No member of a firm of which a former Government employee is a member may represent or knowingly assist a person who was or is a specific party in any particular matter with respect to which the restrictions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section apply to the former Government employee, in that particular matter, unless the firm isolates the former Government employee in such a way to ensure that the former Government employee cannot assist in the representation.
(2) When isolation of a former Government employee is required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a statement affirming the fact of such isolation must be executed under oath by the former Government employee and by another member of the firm acting on behalf of the firm. The statement must clearly identify the firm, the former Government employee, and the particular matter(s) requiring isolation. The statement must be retained by the firm and, upon request, provided to the office(s) of the Internal Revenue Service administering or enforcing this part.
(d) Pending representation. The provisions of this regulation will govern practice by former Government employees, their partners and associates with respect to representation in particular matters involving specific parties where actual representation commenced before the effective date of this regulation.
Pending representation.
The provisions of this regulation will govern practice by former Government employees, their partners and associates with respect to representation in particular matters involving specific parties where actual representation commenced before the effective date of this regulation.
(e) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54548, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32307, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.26   Notaries.

A practitioner may not take acknowledgments, administer oaths, certify papers, or perform any official act as a notary public with respect to any matter administered by the Internal Revenue Service and for which he or she is employed as counsel, attorney, or agent, or in which he or she may be in any way interested.

§ 10.27   Fees.

(a) In general. A practitioner may not charge an unconscionable fee in connection with any matter before the Internal Revenue Service.
In general.
A practitioner may not charge an unconscionable fee in connection with any matter before the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) Contingent fees. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, a practitioner may not charge a contingent fee for services rendered in connection with any matter before the Internal Revenue Service.
Contingent fees.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, a practitioner may not charge a contingent fee for services rendered in connection with any matter before the Internal Revenue Service.
(2) A practitioner may charge a contingent fee for services rendered in connection with the Service's examination of, or challenge to—
(i) An original tax return; or
(ii) An amended return or claim for refund or credit where the amended return or claim for refund or credit was filed within 120 days of the taxpayer receiving a written notice of the examination of, or a written challenge to the original tax return.
(3) A practitioner may charge a contingent fee for services rendered in connection with a claim for credit or refund filed solely in connection with the determination of statutory interest or penalties assessed by the Internal Revenue Service.
(4) A practitioner may charge a contingent fee for services rendered in connection with any judicial proceeding arising under the Internal Revenue Code.
(c) Definitions. For purposes of this section—
Definitions.
For purposes of this section—
(1) Contingent fee is any fee that is based, in whole or in part, on whether or not a position taken on a tax return or other filing avoids challenge by the Internal Revenue Service or is sustained either by the Internal Revenue Service or in litigation. A contingent fee includes a fee that is based on a percentage of the refund reported on a return, that is based on a percentage of the taxes saved, or that otherwise depends on the specific result attained. A contingent fee also includes any fee arrangement in which the practitioner will reimburse the client for all or a portion of the client's fee in the event that a position taken on a tax return or other filing is challenged by the Internal Revenue Service or is not sustained, whether pursuant to an indemnity agreement, a guarantee, rescission rights, or any other arrangement with a similar effect.
Contingent fee
is any fee that is based, in whole or in part, on whether or not a position taken on a tax return or other filing avoids challenge by the Internal Revenue Service or is sustained either by the Internal Revenue Service or in litigation. A contingent fee includes a fee that is based on a percentage of the refund reported on a return, that is based on a percentage of the taxes saved, or that otherwise depends on the specific result attained. A contingent fee also includes any fee arrangement in which the practitioner will reimburse the client for all or a portion of the client's fee in the event that a position taken on a tax return or other filing is challenged by the Internal Revenue Service or is not sustained, whether pursuant to an indemnity agreement, a guarantee, rescission rights, or any other arrangement with a similar effect.
(2) Matter before the Internal Revenue Service includes tax planning and advice, preparing or filing or assisting in preparing or filing returns or claims for refund or credit, and all matters connected with a presentation to the Internal Revenue Service or any of its officers or employees relating to a taxpayer's rights, privileges, or liabilities under laws or regulations administered by the Internal Revenue Service. Such presentations include, but are not limited to, preparing and filing documents, corresponding and communicating with the Internal Revenue Service, rendering written advice with respect to any entity, transaction, plan or arrangement, and representing a client at conferences, hearings, and meetings.
Matter before the Internal Revenue Service
includes tax planning and advice, preparing or filing or assisting in preparing or filing returns or claims for refund or credit, and all matters connected with a presentation to the Internal Revenue Service or any of its officers or employees relating to a taxpayer's rights, privileges, or liabilities under laws or regulations administered by the Internal Revenue Service. Such presentations include, but are not limited to, preparing and filing documents, corresponding and communicating with the Internal Revenue Service, rendering written advice with respect to any entity, transaction, plan or arrangement, and representing a client at conferences, hearings, and meetings.
(d) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable for fee arrangements entered into after March 26, 2008.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable for fee arrangements entered into after March 26, 2008.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54548, Sept. 26, 2007]]

§ 10.28   Return of client's records.

(a) In general, a practitioner must, at the request of a client, promptly return any and all records of the client that are necessary for the client to comply with his or her Federal tax obligations. The practitioner may retain copies of the records returned to a client. The existence of a dispute over fees generally does not relieve the practitioner of his or her responsibility under this section. Nevertheless, if applicable state law allows or permits the retention of a client's records by a practitioner in the case of a dispute over fees for services rendered, the practitioner need only return those records that must be attached to the taxpayer's return. The practitioner, however, must provide the client with reasonable access to review and copy any additional records of the client retained by the practitioner under state law that are necessary for the client to comply with his or her Federal tax obligations.
(b) For purposes of this section, Records of the client include all documents or written or electronic materials provided to the practitioner, or obtained by the practitioner in the course of the practitioner's representation of the client, that preexisted the retention of the practitioner by the client. The term also includes materials that were prepared by the client or a third party (not including an employee or agent of the practitioner) at any time and provided to the practitioner with respect to the subject matter of the representation. The term also includes any return, claim for refund, schedule, affidavit, appraisal or any other document prepared by the practitioner, or his or her employee or agent, that was presented to the client with respect to a prior representation if such document is necessary for the taxpayer to comply with his or her current Federal tax obligations. The term does not include any return, claim for refund, schedule, affidavit, appraisal or any other document prepared by the practitioner or the practitioner's firm, employees or agents if the practitioner is withholding such document pending the client's performance of its contractual obligation to pay fees with respect to such document.
Records of the client
include all documents or written or electronic materials provided to the practitioner, or obtained by the practitioner in the course of the practitioner's representation of the client, that preexisted the retention of the practitioner by the client. The term also includes materials that were prepared by the client or a third party (not including an employee or agent of the practitioner) at any time and provided to the practitioner with respect to the subject matter of the representation. The term also includes any return, claim for refund, schedule, affidavit, appraisal or any other document prepared by the practitioner, or his or her employee or agent, that was presented to the client with respect to a prior representation if such document is necessary for the taxpayer to comply with his or her current Federal tax obligations. The term does not include any return, claim for refund, schedule, affidavit, appraisal or any other document prepared by the practitioner or the practitioner's firm, employees or agents if the practitioner is withholding such document pending the client's performance of its contractual obligation to pay fees with respect to such document.

§ 10.29   Conflicting interests.

(a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, a practitioner shall not represent a client before the Internal Revenue Service if the representation involves a conflict of interest. A conflict of interest exists if—
(1) The representation of one client will be directly adverse to another client; or
(2) There is a significant risk that the representation of one or more clients will be materially limited by the practitioner's responsibilities to another client, a former client or a third person, or by a personal interest of the practitioner.
(b) Notwithstanding the existence of a conflict of interest under paragraph (a) of this section, the practitioner may represent a client if—
(1) The practitioner reasonably believes that the practitioner will be able to provide competent and diligent representation to each affected client;
(2) The representation is not prohibited by law; and
(3) Each affected client waives the conflict of interest and gives informed consent, confirmed in writing by each affected client, at the time the existence of the conflict of interest is known by the practitioner. The confirmation may be made within a reasonable period after the informed consent, but in no event later than 30 days.
(c) Copies of the written consents must be retained by the practitioner for at least 36 months from the date of the conclusion of the representation of the affected clients, and the written consents must be provided to any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service on request.
(d) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54549, Sept. 26, 2007]]

§ 10.30   Solicitation.

(a) Advertising and solicitation restrictions. (1) A practitioner may not, with respect to any Internal Revenue Service matter, in any way use or participate in the use of any form of public communication or private solicitation containing a false, fraudulent, or coercive statement or claim; or a misleading or deceptive statement or claim. Enrolled agents, enrolled retirement plan agents, or registered tax return preparers, in describing their professional designation, may not utilize the term “certified” or imply an employer/employee relationship with the Internal Revenue Service. Examples of acceptable descriptions for enrolled agents are “enrolled to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service,” “enrolled to practice before the Internal Revenue Service,” and “admitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.” Similarly, examples of acceptable descriptions for enrolled retirement plan agents are “enrolled to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service as a retirement plan agent” and “enrolled to practice before the Internal Revenue Service as a retirement plan agent.” An example of an acceptable description for registered tax return preparers is “designated as a registered tax return preparer by the Internal Revenue Service.”
Advertising and solicitation restrictions.
(1) A practitioner may not, with respect to any Internal Revenue Service matter, in any way use or participate in the use of any form of public communication or private solicitation containing a false, fraudulent, or coercive statement or claim; or a misleading or deceptive statement or claim. Enrolled agents, enrolled retirement plan agents, or registered tax return preparers, in describing their professional designation, may not utilize the term “certified” or imply an employer/employee relationship with the Internal Revenue Service. Examples of acceptable descriptions for enrolled agents are “enrolled to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service,” “enrolled to practice before the Internal Revenue Service,” and “admitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.” Similarly, examples of acceptable descriptions for enrolled retirement plan agents are “enrolled to represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service as a retirement plan agent” and “enrolled to practice before the Internal Revenue Service as a retirement plan agent.” An example of an acceptable description for registered tax return preparers is “designated as a registered tax return preparer by the Internal Revenue Service.”
(2) A practitioner may not make, directly or indirectly, an uninvited written or oral solicitation of employment in matters related to the Internal Revenue Service if the solicitation violates Federal or State law or other applicable rule, e.g., attorneys are precluded from making a solicitation that is prohibited by conduct rules applicable to all attorneys in their State(s) of licensure. Any lawful solicitation made by or on behalf of a practitioner eligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service must, nevertheless, clearly identify the solicitation as such and, if applicable, identify the source of the information used in choosing the recipient.
(b) Fee information. (1)(i) A practitioner may publish the availability of a written schedule of fees and disseminate the following fee information—
Fee information.
(1)(i) A practitioner may publish the availability of a written schedule of fees and disseminate the following fee information—
(A) Fixed fees for specific routine services.
(B) Hourly rates.
(C) Range of fees for particular services.
(D) Fee charged for an initial consultation.
(ii) Any statement of fee information concerning matters in which costs may be incurred must include a statement disclosing whether clients will be responsible for such costs.
(2) A practitioner may charge no more than the rate(s) published under paragraph (b)(1) of this section for at least 30 calendar days after the last date on which the schedule of fees was published.
(c) Communication of fee information. Fee information may be communicated in professional lists, telephone directories, print media, mailings, electronic mail, facsimile, hand delivered flyers, radio, television, and any other method. The method chosen, however, must not cause the communication to become untruthful, deceptive, or otherwise in violation of this part. A practitioner may not persist in attempting to contact a prospective client if the prospective client has made it known to the practitioner that he or she does not desire to be solicited. In the case of radio and television broadcasting, the broadcast must be recorded and the practitioner must retain a recording of the actual transmission. In the case of direct mail and e-commerce communications, the practitioner must retain a copy of the actual communication, along with a list or other description of persons to whom the communication was mailed or otherwise distributed. The copy must be retained by the practitioner for a period of at least 36 months from the date of the last transmission or use.
Communication of fee information.
Fee information may be communicated in professional lists, telephone directories, print media, mailings, electronic mail, facsimile, hand delivered flyers, radio, television, and any other method. The method chosen, however, must not cause the communication to become untruthful, deceptive, or otherwise in violation of this part. A practitioner may not persist in attempting to contact a prospective client if the prospective client has made it known to the practitioner that he or she does not desire to be solicited. In the case of radio and television broadcasting, the broadcast must be recorded and the practitioner must retain a recording of the actual transmission. In the case of direct mail and e-commerce communications, the practitioner must retain a copy of the actual communication, along with a list or other description of persons to whom the communication was mailed or otherwise distributed. The copy must be retained by the practitioner for a period of at least 36 months from the date of the last transmission or use.
(d) Improper associations. A practitioner may not, in matters related to the Internal Revenue Service, assist, or accept assistance from, any person or entity who, to the knowledge of the practitioner, obtains clients or otherwise practices in a manner forbidden under this section.
Improper associations.
A practitioner may not, in matters related to the Internal Revenue Service, assist, or accept assistance from, any person or entity who, to the knowledge of the practitioner, obtains clients or otherwise practices in a manner forbidden under this section.
(e) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control No. 1545-1726)
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54549, Sept. 26, 2007; T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32307, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.31   Negotiation of taxpayer checks.

(a) A practitioner may not endorse or otherwise negotiate any check (including directing or accepting payment by any means, electronic or otherwise, into an account owned or controlled by the practitioner or any firm or other entity with whom the practitioner is associated) issued to a client by the government in respect of a Federal tax liability.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
[[T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33693, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.32   Practice of law.

Nothing in the regulations in this part may be construed as authorizing persons not members of the bar to practice law.

§ 10.33   Best practices for tax advisors.

(a) Best practices. Tax advisors should provide clients with the highest quality representation concerning Federal tax issues by adhering to best practices in providing advice and in preparing or assisting in the preparation of a submission to the Internal Revenue Service. In addition to compliance with the standards of practice provided elsewhere in this part, best practices include the following:
Best practices.
Tax advisors should provide clients with the highest quality representation concerning Federal tax issues by adhering to best practices in providing advice and in preparing or assisting in the preparation of a submission to the Internal Revenue Service. In addition to compliance with the standards of practice provided elsewhere in this part, best practices include the following:
(1) Communicating clearly with the client regarding the terms of the engagement. For example, the advisor should determine the client's expected purpose for and use of the advice and should have a clear understanding with the client regarding the form and scope of the advice or assistance to be rendered.
(2) Establishing the facts, determining which facts are relevant, evaluating the reasonableness of any assumptions or representations, relating the applicable law (including potentially applicable judicial doctrines) to the relevant facts, and arriving at a conclusion supported by the law and the facts.
(3) Advising the client regarding the import of the conclusions reached, including, for example, whether a taxpayer may avoid accuracy-related penalties under the Internal Revenue Code if a taxpayer acts in reliance on the advice.
(4) Acting fairly and with integrity in practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) Procedures to ensure best practices for tax advisors. Tax advisors with responsibility for overseeing a firm's practice of providing advice concerning Federal tax issues or of preparing or assisting in the preparation of submissions to the Internal Revenue Service should take reasonable steps to ensure that the firm's procedures for all members, associates, and employees are consistent with the best practices set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
Procedures to ensure best practices for tax advisors.
Tax advisors with responsibility for overseeing a firm's practice of providing advice concerning Federal tax issues or of preparing or assisting in the preparation of submissions to the Internal Revenue Service should take reasonable steps to ensure that the firm's procedures for all members, associates, and employees are consistent with the best practices set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Applicability date. This section is effective after June 20, 2005.
Applicability date.
This section is effective after June 20, 2005.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48771, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9165, 69 FR 75841, Dec. 20, 2004]]

§ 10.34   Standards with respect to tax returns and documents, affidavits and other papers.

(a) Tax returns. (1) A practitioner may not willfully, recklessly, or through gross incompetence—
Tax returns.
(1) A practitioner may not willfully, recklessly, or through gross incompetence—
(i) Sign a tax return or claim for refund that the practitioner knows or reasonably should know contains a position that—
(A) Lacks a reasonable basis;
(B) Is an unreasonable position as described in section 6694(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue code (Code) (including the related regulations and other published guidance); or
(C) Is a willful attempted by the practitioner to understate the liability for tax or a reckless or intentional disregard of rules or regulations by the practitioner as described in section 6694(b)(2) of the Code (including the related regulations and other published guidance).
(ii) Advise a client to take a position on a tax return or claim for refund, or prepare a portion off a tax return or claim for refund containing a position, that—
(A) Lacks a reasonable basis;
(B) Is an unreasonable position as described in section 6694(a)(2) of the Code (including the related regulations and other published guidance); or
(C) Is a willful attempt by the practitioner to understate the liability for tax or a reckless or intentional disregard of rules or regulations by the practitioner as described in section 6694(b)(2) of the Code (including the related regulations and other published guidance).
(2) A pattern of conduct is a factor that will be taken into account in determining whether a practitioner acted willfully, recklessly, or through gross incompetence.
(b) Documents, affidavits and other papers. (1) A practitioner may not advise a client to take a position on a document, affidavit or other paper submitted to the Internal Revenue Service unless the position is not frivolous.
Documents, affidavits and other papers.
(1) A practitioner may not advise a client to take a position on a document, affidavit or other paper submitted to the Internal Revenue Service unless the position is not frivolous.
(2) A practitioner may not advise a client to submit a document, affidavit or other paper to the Internal Revenue Service—
(i) The purpose of which is to delay or impede the administration of the Federal tax laws;
(ii) That is frivolous; or
(iii) That contains or omits information in a manner that demonstrates an intentional disregard of a rule or regulation unless the practitioner also advises the client to submit a document that evidences a good faith challenge to the rule or regulation.
(c) Advising clients on potential penalties. (1) A practitioner must inform a client of any penalties that are reasonably likely to apply to the client with respect to—
Advising clients on potential penalties.
(1) A practitioner must inform a client of any penalties that are reasonably likely to apply to the client with respect to—
(i) A position taken on a tax return if—
(A) The practitioner advised the client with respect to the position; or
(B) The practitioner prepared or signed the tax return; and
(ii) Any document, affidavit or other paper submitted to the Internal Revenue Service.
(2) The practitioner also must inform the client of any opportunity to avoid any such penalties by disclosure, if relevant, and of the requirements for adequate disclosure.
(3) This paragraph (c) applies even if the practitioner is not subject to a penalty under the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the position or with respect to the document, affidavit or other paper submitted.
(d) Relying on information furnished by clients. A practitioner advising a client to take a position on a tax return, document, affidavit or other paper submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, or preparing or signing a tax return as a preparer, generally may rely in good faith without verification upon information furnished by the client. The practitioner may not, however, ignore the implications of information furnished to, or actually known by, the practitioner, and must make reasonable inquiries if the information as furnished appears to be incorrect, inconsistent with an important fact or another factual assumption, or incomplete.
Relying on information furnished by clients.
A practitioner advising a client to take a position on a tax return, document, affidavit or other paper submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, or preparing or signing a tax return as a preparer, generally may rely in good faith without verification upon information furnished by the client. The practitioner may not, however, ignore the implications of information furnished to, or actually known by, the practitioner, and must make reasonable inquiries if the information as furnished appears to be incorrect, inconsistent with an important fact or another factual assumption, or incomplete.
(e) Effective/applicability date. Paragraph (a) of this section is applicable for returns or claims for refund filed, or advice provided, beginning August 2, 2011. Paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section are applicable to tax returns, documents, affidavits, and other papers filed on or after September 26, 2007.
Effective/applicability date.
Paragraph (a) of this section is applicable for returns or claims for refund filed, or advice provided, beginning August 2, 2011. Paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section are applicable to tax returns, documents, affidavits, and other papers filed on or after September 26, 2007.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54549, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32307, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.35   Competence.

(a) A practitioner must possess the necessary competence to engage in practice before the Internal Revenue Service. Competent practice requires the appropriate level of knowledge, skill, thoroughness, and preparation necessary for the matter for which the practitioner is engaged. A practitioner may become competent for the matter for which the practitioner has been engaged through various methods, such as consulting with experts in the relevant area or studying the relevant law.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
[[T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33693, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.36   Procedures to ensure compliance.

(a) Any individual subject to the provisions of this part who has (or individuals who have or share) principal authority and responsibility for overseeing a firm's practice governed by this part, including the provision of advice concerning Federal tax matters and preparation of tax returns, claims for refund, or other documents for submission to the Internal Revenue Service, must take reasonable steps to ensure that the firm has adequate procedures in effect for all members, associates, and employees for purposes of complying with subparts A, B, and C of this part, as applicable. In the absence of a person or persons identified by the firm as having the principal authority and responsibility described in this paragraph, the Internal Revenue Service may identify one or more individuals subject to the provisions of this part responsible for compliance with the requirements of this section.
(b) Any such individual who has (or such individuals who have or share) principal authority as described in paragraph (a) of this section will be subject to discipline for failing to comply with the requirements of this section if—
(1) The individual through willfulness, recklessness, or gross incompetence does not take reasonable steps to ensure that the firm has adequate procedures to comply with this part, as applicable, and one or more individuals who are members of, associated with, or employed by, the firm are, or have, engaged in a pattern or practice, in connection with their practice with the firm, of failing to comply with this part, as applicable;
(2) The individual through willfulness, recklessness, or gross incompetence does not take reasonable steps to ensure that firm procedures in effect are properly followed, and one or more individuals who are members of, associated with, or employed by, the firm are, or have, engaged in a pattern or practice, in connection with their practice with the firm, of failing to comply with this part, as applicable; or
(3) The individual knows or should know that one or more individuals who are members of, associated with, or employed by, the firm are, or have, engaged in a pattern or practice, in connection with their practice with the firm, that does not comply with this part, as applicable, and the individual, through willfulness, recklessness, or gross incompetence fails to take prompt action to correct the noncompliance.
(c) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
[[T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33693, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.37   Requirements for written advice.

(a) Requirements. (1) A practitioner may give written advice (including by means of electronic communication) concerning one or more Federal tax matters subject to the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Government submissions on matters of general policy are not considered written advice on a Federal tax matter for purposes of this section. Continuing education presentations provided to an audience solely for the purpose of enhancing practitioners' professional knowledge on Federal tax matters are not considered written advice on a Federal tax matter for purposes of this section. The preceding sentence does not apply to presentations marketing or promoting transactions.
Requirements.
(1) A practitioner may give written advice (including by means of electronic communication) concerning one or more Federal tax matters subject to the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Government submissions on matters of general policy are not considered written advice on a Federal tax matter for purposes of this section. Continuing education presentations provided to an audience solely for the purpose of enhancing practitioners' professional knowledge on Federal tax matters are not considered written advice on a Federal tax matter for purposes of this section. The preceding sentence does not apply to presentations marketing or promoting transactions.
(2) The practitioner must—
(i) Base the written advice on reasonable factual and legal assumptions (including assumptions as to future events);
(ii) Reasonably consider all relevant facts and circumstances that the practitioner knows or reasonably should know;
(iii) Use reasonable efforts to identify and ascertain the facts relevant to written advice on each Federal tax matter;
(iv) Not rely upon representations, statements, findings, or agreements (including projections, financial forecasts, or appraisals) of the taxpayer or any other person if reliance on them would be unreasonable;
(v) Relate applicable law and authorities to facts; and
(vi) Not, in evaluating a Federal tax matter, take into account the possibility that a tax return will not be audited or that a matter will not be raised on audit.
(3) Reliance on representations, statements, findings, or agreements is unreasonable if the practitioner knows or reasonably should know that one or more representations or assumptions on which any representation is based are incorrect, incomplete, or inconsistent.
(b) Reliance on advice of others. A practitioner may only rely on the advice of another person if the advice was reasonable and the reliance is in good faith considering all the facts and circumstances. Reliance is not reasonable when—
Reliance on advice of others.
A practitioner may only rely on the advice of another person if the advice was reasonable and the reliance is in good faith considering all the facts and circumstances. Reliance is not reasonable when—
(1) The practitioner knows or reasonably should know that the opinion of the other person should not be relied on;
(2) The practitioner knows or reasonably should know that the other person is not competent or lacks the necessary qualifications to provide the advice; or
(3) The practitioner knows or reasonably should know that the other person has a conflict of interest in violation of the rules described in this part.
(c) Standard of review. (1) In evaluating whether a practitioner giving written advice concerning one or more Federal tax matters complied with the requirements of this section, the Commissioner, or delegate, will apply a reasonable practitioner standard, considering all facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, the scope of the engagement and the type and specificity of the advice sought by the client.
Standard of review.
(1) In evaluating whether a practitioner giving written advice concerning one or more Federal tax matters complied with the requirements of this section, the Commissioner, or delegate, will apply a reasonable practitioner standard, considering all facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, the scope of the engagement and the type and specificity of the advice sought by the client.
(2) In the case of an opinion the practitioner knows or has reason to know will be used or referred to by a person other than the practitioner (or a person who is a member of, associated with, or employed by the practitioner's firm) in promoting, marketing, or recommending to one or more taxpayers a partnership or other entity, investment plan or arrangement a significant purpose of which is the avoidance or evasion of any tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code, the Commissioner, or delegate, will apply a reasonable practitioner standard, considering all facts and circumstances, with emphasis given to the additional risk caused by the practitioner's lack of knowledge of the taxpayer's particular circumstances, when determining whether a practitioner has failed to comply with this section.
(d) Federal tax matter. A Federal tax matter, as used in this section, is any matter concerning the application or interpretation of—
Federal tax matter.
A Federal tax matter, as used in this section, is any matter concerning the application or interpretation of—
(1) A revenue provision as defined in section 6110(i)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code;
(2) Any provision of law impacting a person's obligations under the internal revenue laws and regulations, including but not limited to the person's liability to pay tax or obligation to file returns; or
(3) Any other law or regulation administered by the Internal Revenue Service.
(e) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable to written advice rendered after June 12, 2014.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable to written advice rendered after June 12, 2014.
[[T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33693, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.38   Establishment of advisory committees.

(a) Advisory committees. To promote and maintain the public's confidence in tax advisors, the Internal Revenue Service is authorized to establish one or more advisory committees composed of at least six individuals authorized to practice before the Internal Revenue Service. Membership of an advisory committee must be balanced among those who practice as attorneys, accountants, enrolled agents, enrolled actuaries, enrolled retirement plan agents, and registered tax return preparers. Under procedures prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, an advisory committee may review and make general recommendations regarding the practices, procedures, and policies of the offices described in § 10.1.
Advisory committees.
To promote and maintain the public's confidence in tax advisors, the Internal Revenue Service is authorized to establish one or more advisory committees composed of at least six individuals authorized to practice before the Internal Revenue Service. Membership of an advisory committee must be balanced among those who practice as attorneys, accountants, enrolled agents, enrolled actuaries, enrolled retirement plan agents, and registered tax return preparers. Under procedures prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, an advisory committee may review and make general recommendations regarding the practices, procedures, and policies of the offices described in § 10.1.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32308, June 3, 2011]]

Subpart C—Sanctions for Violation of the Regulations

[Source:T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48774, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48774, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

§ 10.50   Sanctions.

(a) Authority to censure, suspend, or disbar. The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, after notice and an opportunity for a proceeding, may censure, suspend, or disbar any practitioner from practice before the Internal Revenue Service if the practitioner is shown to be incompetent or disreputable (within the meaning of § 10.51), fails to comply with any regulation in this part (under the prohibited conduct standards of § 10.52), or with intent to defraud, willfully and knowingly misleads or threatens a client or prospective client. Censure is a public reprimand.
Authority to censure, suspend, or disbar.
The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, after notice and an opportunity for a proceeding, may censure, suspend, or disbar any practitioner from practice before the Internal Revenue Service if the practitioner is shown to be incompetent or disreputable (within the meaning of § 10.51), fails to comply with any regulation in this part (under the prohibited conduct standards of § 10.52), or with intent to defraud, willfully and knowingly misleads or threatens a client or prospective client. Censure is a public reprimand.
(b) Authority to disqualify. The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, may disqualify any appraiser for a violation of these rules as applicable to appraisers.
Authority to disqualify.
The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, may disqualify any appraiser for a violation of these rules as applicable to appraisers.
(1) If any appraiser is disqualified pursuant to this subpart C, the appraiser is barred from presenting evidence or testimony in any administrative proceeding before the Department of Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service, unless and until authorized to do so by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to § 10.81, regardless of whether the evidence or testimony would pertain to an appraisal made prior to or after the effective date of disqualification.
(2) Any appraisal made by a disqualified appraiser after the effective date of disqualification will not have any probative effect in any administrative proceeding before the Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service. An appraisal otherwise barred from admission into evidence pursuant to this section may be admitted into evidence solely for the purpose of determining the taxpayer's reliance in good faith on such appraisal.
(c) Authority to impose monetary penalty—(1) In general. (i) The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, after notice and an opportunity for a proceeding, may impose a monetary penalty on any practitioner who engages in conduct subject to sanction under paragraph (a) of this section.
Authority to impose monetary penalty
—(1)
In general.
(i) The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, after notice and an opportunity for a proceeding, may impose a monetary penalty on any practitioner who engages in conduct subject to sanction under paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) If the practitioner described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section was acting on behalf of an employer or any firm or other entity in connection with the conduct giving rise to the penalty, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, may impose a monetary penalty on the employer, firm, or entity if it knew, or reasonably should have known, of such conduct.
(2) Amount of penalty. The amount of the penalty shall not exceed the gross income derived (or to be derived) from the conduct giving rise to the penalty.
Amount of penalty.
The amount of the penalty shall not exceed the gross income derived (or to be derived) from the conduct giving rise to the penalty.
(3) Coordination with other sanctions. Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section—
Coordination with other sanctions.
Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section—
(i) Any monetary penalty imposed on a practitioner under this paragraph (c) may be in addition to or in lieu of any suspension, disbarment or censure and may be in addition to a penalty imposed on an employer, firm or other entity under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) Any monetary penalty imposed on an employer, firm or other entity may be in addition to or in lieu of penalties imposed under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(d) Authority to accept a practitioner's consent to sanction. The Internal Revenue Service may accept a practitioner's offer of consent to be sanctioned under § 10.50 in lieu of instituting or continuing a proceeding under § 10.60(a).
Authority to accept a practitioner's consent to sanction.
The Internal Revenue Service may accept a practitioner's offer of consent to be sanctioned under § 10.50 in lieu of instituting or continuing a proceeding under § 10.60(a).
(e) Sanctions to be imposed. The sanctions imposed by this section shall take into account all relevant facts and circumstances.
Sanctions to be imposed.
The sanctions imposed by this section shall take into account all relevant facts and circumstances.
(f) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable to conduct occurring on or after August 2, 2011, except that paragraphs (a), (b)(2), and (e) apply to conduct occurring on or after September 26, 2007, and paragraph (c) applies to prohibited conduct that occurs after October 22, 2004.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable to conduct occurring on or after August 2, 2011, except that paragraphs (a), (b)(2), and (e) apply to conduct occurring on or after September 26, 2007, and paragraph (c) applies to prohibited conduct that occurs after October 22, 2004.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54549, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32308, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.51   Incompetence and disreputable conduct.

(a) Incompetence and disreputable conduct. Incompetence and disreputable conduct for which a practitioner may be sanctioned under § 10.50 includes, but is not limited to—
Incompetence and disreputable conduct.
Incompetence and disreputable conduct for which a practitioner may be sanctioned under § 10.50 includes, but is not limited to—
(1) Conviction of any criminal offense under the Federal tax laws.
(2) Conviction of any criminal offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust.
(3) Conviction of any felony under Federal or State law for which the conduct involved renders the practitioner unfit to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(4) Giving false or misleading information, or participating in any way in the giving of false or misleading information to the Department of the Treasury or any officer or employee thereof, or to any tribunal authorized to pass upon Federal tax matters, in connection with any matter pending or likely to be pending before them, knowing the information to be false or misleading. Facts or other matters contained in testimony, Federal tax returns, financial statements, applications for enrollment, affidavits, declarations, and any other document or statement, written or oral, are included in the term “information.”
(5) Solicitation of employment as prohibited under § 10.30, the use of false or misleading representations with intent to deceive a client or prospective client in order to procure employment, or intimating that the practitioner is able improperly to obtain special consideration or action from the Internal Revenue Service or any officer or employee thereof.
(6) Willfully failing to make a Federal tax return in violation of the Federal tax laws, or willfully evading, attempting to evade, or participating in any way in evading or attempting to evade any assessment or payment of any Federal tax.
(7) Willfully assisting, counseling, encouraging a client or prospective client in violating, or suggesting to a client or prospective client to violate, any Federal tax law, or knowingly counseling or suggesting to a client or prospective client an illegal plan to evade Federal taxes or payment thereof.
(8) Misappropriation of, or failure properly or promptly to remit, funds received from a client for the purpose of payment of taxes or other obligations due the United States.
(9) Directly or indirectly attempting to influence, or offering or agreeing to attempt to influence, the official action of any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service by the use of threats, false accusations, duress or coercion, by the offer of any special inducement or promise of an advantage, or by the bestowing of any gift, favor or thing of value.
(10) Disbarment or suspension from practice as an attorney, certified public accountant, public accountant or actuary by any duly constituted authority of any State, territory, or possession of the United States, including a Commonwealth, or the District of Columbia, any Federal court of record or any Federal agency, body or board.
(11) Knowingly aiding and abetting another person to practice before the Internal Revenue Service during a period of suspension, disbarment or ineligibility of such other person.
(12) Contemptuous conduct in connection with practice before the Internal Revenue Service, including the use of abusive language, making false accusations or statements, knowing them to be false or circulating or publishing malicious or libelous matter.
(13) Giving a false opinion, knowingly, recklessly, or through gross incompetence, including an opinion which is intentionally or recklessly misleading, or engaging in a pattern of providing incompetent opinions on questions arising under the Federal tax laws. False opinions described in this paragraph (a)(13) include those which reflect or result from a knowing misstatement of fact or law, from an assertion of a position known to be unwarranted under existing law, from counseling or assisting in conduct known to be illegal or fraudulent, from concealing matters required by law to be revealed, or from consciously disregarding information indicating that material facts expressed in the opinion or offering material are false or misleading. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(13), reckless conduct is a highly unreasonable omission or misrepresentation involving an extreme departure from the standards of ordinary care that a practitioner should observe under the circumstances. A pattern of conduct is a factor that will be taken into account in determining whether a practitioner acted knowingly, recklessly, or through gross incompetence. Gross incompetence includes conduct that reflects gross indifference, preparation which is grossly inadequate under the circumstances, and a consistent failure to perform obligations to the client.
(14) Willfully failing to sign a tax return prepared by the practitioner when the practitioner's signature is required by the Federal tax laws unless the failure is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.
(15) Willfully disclosing or otherwise using a tax return or tax return information in a manner not authorized by the Internal Revenue Code, contrary to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or contrary to the order of an administrative law judge in a proceeding instituted under § 10.60.
(16) Willfully failing to file on magnetic or other electronic media a tax return prepared by the practitioner when the practitioner is required to do so by the Federal tax laws unless the failure is due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.
(17) Willfully preparing all or substantially all of, or signing, a tax return or claim for refund when the practitioner does not possess a current or otherwise valid preparer tax identification number or other prescribed identifying number.
(18) Willfully representing a taxpayer before an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service unless the practitioner is authorized to do so pursuant to this part.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54550, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32308, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.52   Violations subject to sanction.

(a) A practitioner may be sanctioned under § 10.50 if the practitioner—
(1) Willfully violates any of the regulations (other than § 10.33) contained in this part; or
(2) Recklessly or through gross incompetence (within the meaning of § 10.51(a)(13)) violates § 10.34, § 10.35, § 10.36 or § 10.37.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable to conduct occurring on or after September 26, 2007.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable to conduct occurring on or after September 26, 2007.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54551, Sept. 26, 2007]]

§ 10.53   Receipt of information concerning practitioner.

(a) Officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service. If an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service has reason to believe a practitioner has violated any provision of this part, the officer or employee will promptly make a written report of the suspected violation. The report will explain the facts and reasons upon which the officer's or employee's belief rests and must be submitted to the office(s) of the Internal Revenue Service responsible for administering or enforcing this part.
Officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service.
If an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service has reason to believe a practitioner has violated any provision of this part, the officer or employee will promptly make a written report of the suspected violation. The report will explain the facts and reasons upon which the officer's or employee's belief rests and must be submitted to the office(s) of the Internal Revenue Service responsible for administering or enforcing this part.
(b) Other persons. Any person other than an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service having information of a violation of any provision of this part may make an oral or written report of the alleged violation to the office(s) of the Internal Revenue Service responsible for administering or enforcing this part or any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service. If the report is made to an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service, the officer or employee will make a written report of the suspected violation and submit the report to the office(s) of the Internal Revenue Service responsible for administering or enforcing this part.
Other persons.
Any person other than an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service having information of a violation of any provision of this part may make an oral or written report of the alleged violation to the office(s) of the Internal Revenue Service responsible for administering or enforcing this part or any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service. If the report is made to an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service, the officer or employee will make a written report of the suspected violation and submit the report to the office(s) of the Internal Revenue Service responsible for administering or enforcing this part.
(c) Destruction of report. No report made under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be maintained unless retention of the report is permissible under the applicable records control schedule as approved by the National Archives and Records Administration and designated in the Internal Revenue Manual. Reports must be destroyed as soon as permissible under the applicable records control schedule.
Destruction of report.
No report made under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall be maintained unless retention of the report is permissible under the applicable records control schedule as approved by the National Archives and Records Administration and designated in the Internal Revenue Manual. Reports must be destroyed as soon as permissible under the applicable records control schedule.
(d) Effect on proceedings under subpart D. The destruction of any report will not bar any proceeding under subpart D of this part, but will preclude the use of a copy of the report in a proceeding under subpart D of this part.
Effect on proceedings under subpart D.
The destruction of any report will not bar any proceeding under subpart D of this part, but will preclude the use of a copy of the report in a proceeding under subpart D of this part.
(e) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32308, June 3, 2011]]

Subpart D—Rules Applicable to Disciplinary Proceedings

[Source:T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48774, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48774, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

§ 10.60   Institution of proceeding.

(a) Whenever it is determined that a practitioner (or employer, firm or other entity, if applicable) violated any provision of the laws governing practice before the Internal Revenue Service or the regulations in this part, the practitioner may be reprimanded or, in accordance with § 10.62, subject to a proceeding for sanctions described in § 10.50.
(b) Whenever a penalty has been assessed against an appraiser under the Internal Revenue Code and an appropriate officer or employee in an office established to enforce this part determines that the appraiser acted willfully, recklessly, or through gross incompetence with respect to the proscribed conduct, the appraiser may be reprimanded or, in accordance with § 10.62, subject to a proceeding for disqualification. A proceeding for disqualification of an appraiser is instituted by the filing of a complaint, the contents of which are more fully described in § 10.62.
(c) Except as provided in § 10.82, a proceeding will not be instituted under this section unless the proposed respondent previously has been advised in writing of the law, facts and conduct warranting such action and has been accorded an opportunity to dispute facts, assert additional facts, and make arguments (including an explanation or description of mitigating circumstances).
(d) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54544, 54551, Sept. 26, 2007; T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32309, June 3, 2011; 76 FR 49650, Aug. 11, 2011]]

§ 10.61   Conferences.

(a) In general. The Commissioner, or delegate, may confer with a practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or an appraiser concerning allegations of misconduct irrespective of whether a proceeding has been instituted. If the conference results in a stipulation in connection with an ongoing proceeding in which the practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser is the respondent, the stipulation may be entered in the record by either party to the proceeding.
In general.
The Commissioner, or delegate, may confer with a practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or an appraiser concerning allegations of misconduct irrespective of whether a proceeding has been instituted. If the conference results in a stipulation in connection with an ongoing proceeding in which the practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser is the respondent, the stipulation may be entered in the record by either party to the proceeding.
(b) Voluntary sanction—(1) In general. In lieu of a proceeding being instituted or continued under § 10.60(a), a practitioner or appraiser (or employer, firm or other entity, if applicable) may offer a consent to be sanctioned under § 10.50.
Voluntary sanction
—(1)
In general.
In lieu of a proceeding being instituted or continued under § 10.60(a), a practitioner or appraiser (or employer, firm or other entity, if applicable) may offer a consent to be sanctioned under § 10.50.
(2) Discretion; acceptance or declination. The Commissioner, or delegate, may accept or decline the offer described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. When the decision is to decline the offer, the written notice of declination may state that the offer described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section would be accepted if it contained different terms. The Commissioner, or delegate, has the discretion to accept or reject a revised offer submitted in response to the declination or may counteroffer and act upon any accepted counteroffer.
Discretion; acceptance or declination.
The Commissioner, or delegate, may accept or decline the offer described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. When the decision is to decline the offer, the written notice of declination may state that the offer described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section would be accepted if it contained different terms. The Commissioner, or delegate, has the discretion to accept or reject a revised offer submitted in response to the declination or may counteroffer and act upon any accepted counteroffer.
(c) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54551, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32309, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.62   Contents of complaint.

(a) Charges. A complaint must name the respondent, provide a clear and concise description of the facts and law that constitute the basis for the proceeding, and be signed by an authorized representative of the Internal Revenue Service under § 10.69(a)(1). A complaint is sufficient if it fairly informs the respondent of the charges brought so that the respondent is able to prepare a defense.
Charges.
A complaint must name the respondent, provide a clear and concise description of the facts and law that constitute the basis for the proceeding, and be signed by an authorized representative of the Internal Revenue Service under § 10.69(a)(1). A complaint is sufficient if it fairly informs the respondent of the charges brought so that the respondent is able to prepare a defense.
(b) Specification of sanction. The complaint must specify the sanction sought against the practitioner or appraiser. If the sanction sought is a suspension, the duration of the suspension sought must be specified.
Specification of sanction.
The complaint must specify the sanction sought against the practitioner or appraiser. If the sanction sought is a suspension, the duration of the suspension sought must be specified.
(c) Demand for answer. The respondent must be notified in the complaint or in a separate paper attached to the complaint of the time for answering the complaint, which may not be less than 30 days from the date of service of the complaint, the name and address of the Administrative Law Judge with whom the answer must be filed, the name and address of the person representing the Internal Revenue Service to whom a copy of the answer must be served, and that a decision by default may be rendered against the respondent in the event an answer is not filed as required.
Demand for answer.
The respondent must be notified in the complaint or in a separate paper attached to the complaint of the time for answering the complaint, which may not be less than 30 days from the date of service of the complaint, the name and address of the Administrative Law Judge with whom the answer must be filed, the name and address of the person representing the Internal Revenue Service to whom a copy of the answer must be served, and that a decision by default may be rendered against the respondent in the event an answer is not filed as required.
(d) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32309, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.63   Service of complaint; service of other papers; service of evidence in support of complaint; filing of papers.

(a) Service of complaint—(1) In general. The complaint or a copy of the complaint must be served on the respondent by any manner described in paragraphs (a)(2) or (3) of this section.
Service of complaint
—(1)
In general.
The complaint or a copy of the complaint must be served on the respondent by any manner described in paragraphs (a)(2) or (3) of this section.
(2) Service by certified or first class mail. (i) Service of the complaint may be made on the respondent by mailing the complaint by certified mail to the last known address (as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder) of the respondent. Where service is by certified mail, the returned post office receipt duly signed by the respondent will be proof of service.
Service by certified or first class mail.
(i) Service of the complaint may be made on the respondent by mailing the complaint by certified mail to the last known address (as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder) of the respondent. Where service is by certified mail, the returned post office receipt duly signed by the respondent will be proof of service.
(ii) If the certified mail is not claimed or accepted by the respondent, or is returned undelivered, service may be made on the respondent, by mailing the complaint to the respondent by first class mail. Service by this method will be considered complete upon mailing, provided the complaint is addressed to the respondent at the respondent's last known address as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.
(3) Service by other than certified or first class mail. (i) Service of the complaint may be made on the respondent by delivery by a private delivery service designated pursuant to section 7502(f) of the Internal Revenue Code to the last known address (as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder) of the respondent. Service by this method will be considered complete, provided the complaint is addressed to the respondent at the respondent's last known address as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.
Service by other than certified or first class mail.
(i) Service of the complaint may be made on the respondent by delivery by a private delivery service designated pursuant to section 7502(f) of the Internal Revenue Code to the last known address (as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder) of the respondent. Service by this method will be considered complete, provided the complaint is addressed to the respondent at the respondent's last known address as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.
(ii) Service of the complaint may be made in person on, or by leaving the complaint at the office or place of business of, the respondent. Service by this method will be considered complete and proof of service will be a written statement, sworn or affirmed by the person who served the complaint, identifying the manner of service, including the recipient, relationship of recipient to respondent, place, date and time of service.
(iii) Service may be made by any other means agreed to by the respondent. Proof of service will be a written statement, sworn or affirmed by the person who served the complaint, identifying the manner of service, including the recipient, relationship of recipient to respondent, place, date and time of service.
(4) For purposes of this section, respondent means the practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser named in the complaint or any other person having the authority to accept mail on behalf of the practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser.
respondent
means the practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser named in the complaint or any other person having the authority to accept mail on behalf of the practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser.
(b) Service of papers other than complaint. Any paper other than the complaint may be served on the respondent, or his or her authorized representative under § 10.69(a)(2) by:
Service of papers other than complaint.
Any paper other than the complaint may be served on the respondent, or his or her authorized representative under § 10.69(a)(2) by:
(1) Mailing the paper by first class mail to the last known address (as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder) of the respondent or the respondent's authorized representative,
(2) Delivery by a private delivery service designated pursuant to section 7502(f) of the Internal Revenue Code to the last known address (as determined under section 6212 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder) of the respondent or the respondent's authorized representative, or
(3) As provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (a)(3)(iii) of this section.
(c) Service of papers on the Internal Revenue Service. Whenever a paper is required or permitted to be served on the Internal Revenue Service in connection with a proceeding under this part, the paper will be served on the Internal Revenue Service's authorized representative under § 10.69(a)(1) at the address designated in the complaint, or at an address provided in a notice of appearance. If no address is designated in the complaint or provided in a notice of appearance, service will be made on the office(s) established to enforce this part under the authority of § 10.1, Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20224.
Service of papers on the Internal Revenue Service.
Whenever a paper is required or permitted to be served on the Internal Revenue Service in connection with a proceeding under this part, the paper will be served on the Internal Revenue Service's authorized representative under § 10.69(a)(1) at the address designated in the complaint, or at an address provided in a notice of appearance. If no address is designated in the complaint or provided in a notice of appearance, service will be made on the office(s) established to enforce this part under the authority of § 10.1, Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20224.
(d) Service of evidence in support of complaint. Within 10 days of serving the complaint, copies of the evidence in support of the complaint must be served on the respondent in any manner described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.
Service of evidence in support of complaint.
Within 10 days of serving the complaint, copies of the evidence in support of the complaint must be served on the respondent in any manner described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.
(e) Filing of papers. Whenever the filing of a paper is required or permitted in connection with a proceeding under this part, the original paper, plus one additional copy, must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge at the address specified in the complaint or at an address otherwise specified by the Administrative Law Judge. All papers filed in connection with a proceeding under this part must be served on the other party, unless the Administrative Law Judge directs otherwise. A certificate evidencing such must be attached to the original paper filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
Filing of papers.
Whenever the filing of a paper is required or permitted in connection with a proceeding under this part, the original paper, plus one additional copy, must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge at the address specified in the complaint or at an address otherwise specified by the Administrative Law Judge. All papers filed in connection with a proceeding under this part must be served on the other party, unless the Administrative Law Judge directs otherwise. A certificate evidencing such must be attached to the original paper filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
(f) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54544, 54552, Sept. 26, 2007; T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32309, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.64   Answer; default.

(a) Filing. The respondent's answer must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge, and served on the Internal Revenue Service, within the time specified in the complaint unless, on request or application of the respondent, the time is extended by the Administrative Law Judge.
Filing.
The respondent's answer must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge, and served on the Internal Revenue Service, within the time specified in the complaint unless, on request or application of the respondent, the time is extended by the Administrative Law Judge.
(b) Contents. The answer must be written and contain a statement of facts that constitute the respondent's grounds of defense. General denials are not permitted. The respondent must specifically admit or deny each allegation set forth in the complaint, except that the respondent may state that the respondent is without sufficient information to admit or deny a specific allegation. The respondent, nevertheless, may not deny a material allegation in the complaint that the respondent knows to be true, or state that the respondent is without sufficient information to form a belief, when the respondent possesses the required information. The respondent also must state affirmatively any special matters of defense on which he or she relies.
Contents.
The answer must be written and contain a statement of facts that constitute the respondent's grounds of defense. General denials are not permitted. The respondent must specifically admit or deny each allegation set forth in the complaint, except that the respondent may state that the respondent is without sufficient information to admit or deny a specific allegation. The respondent, nevertheless, may not deny a material allegation in the complaint that the respondent knows to be true, or state that the respondent is without sufficient information to form a belief, when the respondent possesses the required information. The respondent also must state affirmatively any special matters of defense on which he or she relies.
(c) Failure to deny or answer allegations in the complaint. Every allegation in the complaint that is not denied in the answer is deemed admitted and will be considered proved; no further evidence in respect of such allegation need be adduced at a hearing.
Failure to deny or answer allegations in the complaint.
Every allegation in the complaint that is not denied in the answer is deemed admitted and will be considered proved; no further evidence in respect of such allegation need be adduced at a hearing.
(d) Default. Failure to file an answer within the time prescribed (or within the time for answer as extended by the Administrative Law Judge), constitutes an admission of the allegations of the complaint and a waiver of hearing, and the Administrative Law Judge may make the decision by default without a hearing or further procedure. A decision by default constitutes a decision under § 10.76.
Default.
Failure to file an answer within the time prescribed (or within the time for answer as extended by the Administrative Law Judge), constitutes an admission of the allegations of the complaint and a waiver of hearing, and the Administrative Law Judge may make the decision by default without a hearing or further procedure. A decision by default constitutes a decision under § 10.76.
(e) Signature. The answer must be signed by the respondent or the respondent's authorized representative under § 10.69(a)(2) and must include a statement directly above the signature acknowledging that the statements made in the answer are true and correct and that knowing and willful false statements may be punishable under 18 U.S.C. 1001.
Signature.
The answer must be signed by the respondent or the respondent's authorized representative under § 10.69(a)(2) and must include a statement directly above the signature acknowledging that the statements made in the answer are true and correct and that knowing and willful false statements may be punishable under 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(f) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48774, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32309, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.65   Supplemental charges.

(a) In general. Supplemental charges may be filed against the respondent by amending the complaint with the permission of the Administrative Law Judge if, for example—
In general.
Supplemental charges may be filed against the respondent by amending the complaint with the permission of the Administrative Law Judge if, for example—
(1) It appears that the respondent, in the answer, falsely and in bad faith, denies a material allegation of fact in the complaint or states that the respondent has insufficient knowledge to form a belief, when the respondent possesses such information; or
(2) It appears that the respondent has knowingly introduced false testimony during the proceedings against the respondent.
(b) Hearing. The supplemental charges may be heard with other charges in the case, provided the respondent is given due notice of the charges and is afforded a reasonable opportunity to prepare a defense to the supplemental charges.
Hearing.
The supplemental charges may be heard with other charges in the case, provided the respondent is given due notice of the charges and is afforded a reasonable opportunity to prepare a defense to the supplemental charges.
(c) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54552, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32309, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.66   Reply to answer.

(a) The Internal Revenue Service may file a reply to the respondent's answer, but unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, no reply to the respondent's answer is required. If a reply is not filed, new matter in the answer is deemed denied.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32309, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.67   Proof; variance; amendment of pleadings.

In the case of a variance between the allegations in pleadings and the evidence adduced in support of the pleadings, the Administrative Law Judge, at any time before decision, may order or authorize amendment of the pleadings to conform to the evidence. The party who would otherwise be prejudiced by the amendment must be given a reasonable opportunity to address the allegations of the pleadings as amended and the Administrative Law Judge must make findings on any issue presented by the pleadings as amended.

§ 10.68   Motions and requests.

(a) Motions—(1) In general. At any time after the filing of the complaint, any party may file a motion with the Administrative Law Judge. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, motions must be in writing and must be served on the opposing party as provided in § 10.63(b). A motion must concisely specify its grounds and the relief sought, and, if appropriate, must contain a memorandum of facts and law in support.
Motions
—(1)
In general.
At any time after the filing of the complaint, any party may file a motion with the Administrative Law Judge. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, motions must be in writing and must be served on the opposing party as provided in § 10.63(b). A motion must concisely specify its grounds and the relief sought, and, if appropriate, must contain a memorandum of facts and law in support.
(2) Summary adjudication. Either party may move for a summary adjudication upon all or any part of the legal issues in controversy. If the non-moving party opposes summary adjudication in the moving party's favor, the non-moving party must file a written response within 30 days unless ordered otherwise by the Administrative Law Judge.
Summary adjudication.
Either party may move for a summary adjudication upon all or any part of the legal issues in controversy. If the non-moving party opposes summary adjudication in the moving party's favor, the non-moving party must file a written response within 30 days unless ordered otherwise by the Administrative Law Judge.
(3) Good Faith. A party filing a motion for extension of time, a motion for postponement of a hearing, or any other non-dispositive or procedural motion must first contact the other party to determine whether there is any objection to the motion, and must state in the motion whether the other party has an objection.
Good Faith.
A party filing a motion for extension of time, a motion for postponement of a hearing, or any other non-dispositive or procedural motion must first contact the other party to determine whether there is any objection to the motion, and must state in the motion whether the other party has an objection.
(b) Response. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, the nonmoving party is not required to file a response to a motion. If the Administrative Law Judge does not order the nonmoving party to file a response, and the nonmoving party files no response, the nonmoving party is deemed to oppose the motion. If a nonmoving party does not respond within 30 days of the filing of a motion for decision by default for failure to file a timely answer or for failure to prosecute, the nonmoving party is deemed not to oppose the motion.
Response.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, the nonmoving party is not required to file a response to a motion. If the Administrative Law Judge does not order the nonmoving party to file a response, and the nonmoving party files no response, the nonmoving party is deemed to oppose the motion. If a nonmoving party does not respond within 30 days of the filing of a motion for decision by default for failure to file a timely answer or for failure to prosecute, the nonmoving party is deemed not to oppose the motion.
(c) Oral motions; oral argument. (1) The Administrative Law Judge may, for good cause and with notice to the parties, permit oral motions and oral opposition to motions.
Oral motions; oral argument.
(1) The Administrative Law Judge may, for good cause and with notice to the parties, permit oral motions and oral opposition to motions.
(2) The Administrative Law Judge may, within his or her discretion, permit oral argument on any motion.
(d) Orders. The Administrative Law Judge should issue written orders disposing of any motion or request and any response thereto.
Orders.
The Administrative Law Judge should issue written orders disposing of any motion or request and any response thereto.
(e) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54552, Sept. 26, 2007]]

§ 10.69   Representation; ex parte communication.

(a) Representation. (1) The Internal Revenue Service may be represented in proceedings under this part by an attorney or other employee of the Internal Revenue Service. An attorney or an employee of the Internal Revenue Service representing the Internal Revenue Service in a proceeding under this part may sign the complaint or any document required to be filed in the proceeding on behalf of the Internal Revenue Service.
Representation.
(1) The Internal Revenue Service may be represented in proceedings under this part by an attorney or other employee of the Internal Revenue Service. An attorney or an employee of the Internal Revenue Service representing the Internal Revenue Service in a proceeding under this part may sign the complaint or any document required to be filed in the proceeding on behalf of the Internal Revenue Service.
(2) A respondent may appear in person, be represented by a practitioner, or be represented by an attorney who has not filed a declaration with the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to § 10.3. A practitioner or an attorney representing a respondent or proposed respondent may sign the answer or any document required to be filed in the proceeding on behalf of the respondent.
(b) Ex parte communication. The Internal Revenue Service, the respondent, and any representatives of either party, may not attempt to initiate or participate in ex parte discussions concerning a proceeding or potential proceeding with the Administrative Law Judge (or any person who is likely to advise the Administrative Law Judge on a ruling or decision) in the proceeding before or during the pendency of the proceeding. Any memorandum, letter or other communication concerning the merits of the proceeding, addressed to the Administrative Law Judge, by or on behalf of any party shall be regarded as an argument in the proceeding and shall be served on the other party.
Ex parte communication.
The Internal Revenue Service, the respondent, and any representatives of either party, may not attempt to initiate or participate in ex parte discussions concerning a proceeding or potential proceeding with the Administrative Law Judge (or any person who is likely to advise the Administrative Law Judge on a ruling or decision) in the proceeding before or during the pendency of the proceeding. Any memorandum, letter or other communication concerning the merits of the proceeding, addressed to the Administrative Law Judge, by or on behalf of any party shall be regarded as an argument in the proceeding and shall be served on the other party.
(c) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32310, June 3, 2011, as amended by 76 FR 49650, Aug. 11, 2011]]

§ 10.70   Administrative Law Judge.

(a) Appointment. Proceedings on complaints for the sanction (as described in § 10.50) of a practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser will be conducted by an Administrative Law Judge appointed as provided by 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Appointment.
Proceedings on complaints for the sanction (as described in § 10.50) of a practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser will be conducted by an Administrative Law Judge appointed as provided by 5 U.S.C. 3105.
(b) Powers of the Administrative Law Judge. The Administrative Law Judge, among other powers, has the authority, in connection with any proceeding under § 10.60 assigned or referred to him or her, to do the following:
Powers of the Administrative Law Judge.
The Administrative Law Judge, among other powers, has the authority, in connection with any proceeding under § 10.60 assigned or referred to him or her, to do the following:
(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) Make rulings on motions and requests, which rulings may not be appealed prior to the close of a hearing except in extraordinary circumstances and at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge;
(3) Determine the time and place of hearing and regulate its course and conduct;
(4) Adopt rules of procedure and modify the same from time to time as needed for the orderly disposition of proceedings;
(5) Rule on offers of proof, receive relevant evidence, and examine witnesses;
(6) Take or authorize the taking of depositions or answers to requests for admission;
(7) Receive and consider oral or written argument on facts or law;
(8) Hold or provide for the holding of conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues with the consent of the parties;
(9) Perform such acts and take such measures as are necessary or appropriate to the efficient conduct of any proceeding; and
(10) Make decisions.
(c) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54552, Sept. 26, 2007]]

§ 10.71   Discovery.

(a) In general. Discovery may be permitted, at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, only upon written motion demonstrating the relevance, materiality and reasonableness of the requested discovery and subject to the requirements of § 10.72(d)(2) and (3). Within 10 days of receipt of the answer, the Administrative Law Judge will notify the parties of the right to request discovery and the timeframes for filing a request. A request for discovery, and objections, must be filed in accordance with § 10.68. In response to a request for discovery, the Administrative Law Judge may order—
In general.
Discovery may be permitted, at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, only upon written motion demonstrating the relevance, materiality and reasonableness of the requested discovery and subject to the requirements of § 10.72(d)(2) and (3). Within 10 days of receipt of the answer, the Administrative Law Judge will notify the parties of the right to request discovery and the timeframes for filing a request. A request for discovery, and objections, must be filed in accordance with § 10.68. In response to a request for discovery, the Administrative Law Judge may order—
(1) Depositions upon oral examination; or
(2) Answers to requests for admission.
(b) Depositions upon oral examination—(1) A deposition must be taken before an officer duly authorized to administer an oath for general purposes or before an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service who is authorized to administer an oath in Federal tax law matters.
Depositions upon oral examination
—(1) A deposition must be taken before an officer duly authorized to administer an oath for general purposes or before an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service who is authorized to administer an oath in Federal tax law matters.
(2) In ordering a deposition, the Administrative Law Judge will require reasonable notice to the opposing party as to the time and place of the deposition. The opposing party, if attending, will be provided the opportunity for full examination and cross-examination of any witness.
(3) Expenses in the reporting of depositions shall be borne by the party at whose instance the deposition is taken. Travel expenses of the deponent shall be borne by the party requesting the deposition, unless otherwise authorized by Federal law or regulation.
(c) Requests for admission. Any party may serve on any other party a written request for admission of the truth of any matters which are not privileged and are relevant to the subject matter of this proceeding. Requests for admission shall not exceed a total of 30 (including any subparts within a specific request) without the approval from the Administrative Law Judge.
Requests for admission.
Any party may serve on any other party a written request for admission of the truth of any matters which are not privileged and are relevant to the subject matter of this proceeding. Requests for admission shall not exceed a total of 30 (including any subparts within a specific request) without the approval from the Administrative Law Judge.
(d) Limitations. Discovery shall not be authorized if—
Limitations.
Discovery shall not be authorized if—
(1) The request fails to meet any requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) It will unduly delay the proceeding;
(3) It will place an undue burden on the party required to produce the discovery sought;
(4) It is frivolous or abusive;
(5) It is cumulative or duplicative;
(6) The material sought is privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure by law;
(7) The material sought relates to mental impressions, conclusions, or legal theories of any party, attorney, or other representative, of a party prepared in anticipation of a proceeding; or
(8) The material sought is available generally to the public, equally to the parties, or to the party seeking the discovery through another source.
(e) Failure to comply. Where a party fails to comply with an order of the Administrative Law Judge under this section, the Administrative Law Judge may, among other things, infer that the information would be adverse to the party failing to provide it, exclude the information from evidence or issue a decision by default.
Failure to comply.
Where a party fails to comply with an order of the Administrative Law Judge under this section, the Administrative Law Judge may, among other things, infer that the information would be adverse to the party failing to provide it, exclude the information from evidence or issue a decision by default.
(f) Other discovery. No discovery other than that specifically provided for in this section is permitted.
Other discovery.
No discovery other than that specifically provided for in this section is permitted.
(g) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable to proceedings initiated on or after September 26, 2007.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable to proceedings initiated on or after September 26, 2007.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54552, Sept. 26, 2007]]

§ 10.72   Hearings.

(a) In general—(1) Presiding officer. An Administrative Law Judge will preside at the hearing on a complaint filed under § 10.60 for the sanction of a practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser.
In general
—(1)
Presiding officer.
An Administrative Law Judge will preside at the hearing on a complaint filed under § 10.60 for the sanction of a practitioner, employer, firm or other entity, or appraiser.
(2) Time for hearing. Absent a determination by the Administrative Law Judge that, in the interest of justice, a hearing must be held at a later time, the Administrative Law Judge should, on notice sufficient to allow proper preparation, schedule the hearing to occur no later than 180 days after the time for filing the answer.
Time for hearing.
Absent a determination by the Administrative Law Judge that, in the interest of justice, a hearing must be held at a later time, the Administrative Law Judge should, on notice sufficient to allow proper preparation, schedule the hearing to occur no later than 180 days after the time for filing the answer.
(3) Procedural requirements. (i) Hearings will be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses will be taken under oath or affirmation.
Procedural requirements.
(i) Hearings will be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses will be taken under oath or affirmation.
(ii) Hearings will be conducted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556.
(iii) A hearing in a proceeding requested under § 10.82(g) will be conducted de novo.
(iv) An evidentiary hearing must be held in all proceedings prior to the issuance of a decision by the Administrative Law Judge unless—
(A) The Internal Revenue Service withdraws the complaint;
(B) A decision is issued by default pursuant to § 10.64(d);
(C) A decision is issued under § 10.82(e);
(D) The respondent requests a decision on the written record without a hearing; or
(E) The Administrative Law Judge issues a decision under § 10.68(d) or rules on another motion that disposes of the case prior to the hearing.
(b) Cross-examination. A party is entitled to present his or her case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct cross-examination, in the presence of the Administrative Law Judge, as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts. This paragraph (b) does not limit a party from presenting evidence contained within a deposition when the Administrative Law Judge determines that the deposition has been obtained in compliance with the rules of this subpart D.
Cross-examination.
A party is entitled to present his or her case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct cross-examination, in the presence of the Administrative Law Judge, as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts. This paragraph (b) does not limit a party from presenting evidence contained within a deposition when the Administrative Law Judge determines that the deposition has been obtained in compliance with the rules of this subpart D.
(c) Prehearing memorandum. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, each party shall file, and serve on the opposing party or the opposing party's representative, prior to any hearing, a prehearing memorandum containing—
Prehearing memorandum.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, each party shall file, and serve on the opposing party or the opposing party's representative, prior to any hearing, a prehearing memorandum containing—
(1) A list (together with a copy) of all proposed exhibits to be used in the party's case in chief;
(2) A list of proposed witnesses, including a synopsis of their expected testimony, or a statement that no witnesses will be called;
(3) Identification of any proposed expert witnesses, including a synopsis of their expected testimony and a copy of any report prepared by the expert or at his or her direction; and
(4) A list of undisputed facts.
(d) Publicity—(1) In general. All reports and decisions of the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, including any reports and decisions of the Administrative Law Judge, under this subpart D are, subject to the protective measures in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, public and open to inspection within 30 days after the agency's decision becomes final.
Publicity
—(1)
In general.
All reports and decisions of the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, including any reports and decisions of the Administrative Law Judge, under this subpart D are, subject to the protective measures in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, public and open to inspection within 30 days after the agency's decision becomes final.
(2) Request for additional publicity. The Administrative Law Judge may grant a request by a practitioner or appraiser that all the pleadings and evidence of the disciplinary proceeding be made available for inspection where the parties stipulate in advance to adopt the protective measures in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
Request for additional publicity.
The Administrative Law Judge may grant a request by a practitioner or appraiser that all the pleadings and evidence of the disciplinary proceeding be made available for inspection where the parties stipulate in advance to adopt the protective measures in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(3) Returns and return information—(i) Disclosure to practitioner or appraiser. Pursuant to section 6103(l)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, may disclose returns and return information to any practitioner or appraiser, or to the authorized representative of the practitioner or appraiser, whose rights are or may be affected by an administrative action or proceeding under this subpart D, but solely for use in the action or proceeding and only to the extent that the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, determines that the returns or return information are or may be relevant and material to the action or proceeding.
Returns and return information
—(i)
Disclosure to practitioner or appraiser.
Pursuant to section 6103(l)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, may disclose returns and return information to any practitioner or appraiser, or to the authorized representative of the practitioner or appraiser, whose rights are or may be affected by an administrative action or proceeding under this subpart D, but solely for use in the action or proceeding and only to the extent that the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, determines that the returns or return information are or may be relevant and material to the action or proceeding.
(ii) Disclosure to officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury. Pursuant to section 6103(l)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, may disclose returns and return information to officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury for use in any action or proceeding under this subpart D, to the extent necessary to advance or protect the interests of the United States.
Disclosure to officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury.
Pursuant to section 6103(l)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, may disclose returns and return information to officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury for use in any action or proceeding under this subpart D, to the extent necessary to advance or protect the interests of the United States.
(iii) Use of returns and return information. Recipients of returns and return information under this paragraph (d)(3) may use the returns or return information solely in the action or proceeding, or in preparation for the action or proceeding, with respect to which the disclosure was made.
Use of returns and return information.
Recipients of returns and return information under this paragraph (d)(3) may use the returns or return information solely in the action or proceeding, or in preparation for the action or proceeding, with respect to which the disclosure was made.
(iv) Procedures for disclosure of returns and return information. When providing returns or return information to the practitioner or appraiser, or authorized representative, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, will—
Procedures for disclosure of returns and return information.
When providing returns or return information to the practitioner or appraiser, or authorized representative, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, will—
(A) Redact identifying information of any third party taxpayers and replace it with a code;
(B) Provide a key to the coded information; and
(C) Notify the practitioner or appraiser, or authorized representative, of the restrictions on the use and disclosure of the returns and return information, the applicable damages remedy under section 7431 of the Internal Revenue Code, and that unauthorized disclosure of information provided by the Internal Revenue Service under this paragraph (d)(3) is also a violation of this part.
(4) Protective measures—(i) Mandatory protective order. If redaction of names, addresses, and other identifying information of third party taxpayers may still permit indirect identification of any third party taxpayer, the Administrative Law Judge will issue a protective order to ensure that the identifying information is available to the parties and the Administrative Law Judge for purposes of the proceeding, but is not disclosed to, or open to inspection by, the public.
Protective measures
—(i)
Mandatory protective order.
If redaction of names, addresses, and other identifying information of third party taxpayers may still permit indirect identification of any third party taxpayer, the Administrative Law Judge will issue a protective order to ensure that the identifying information is available to the parties and the Administrative Law Judge for purposes of the proceeding, but is not disclosed to, or open to inspection by, the public.
(ii) Authorized orders. (A) Upon motion by a party or any other affected person, and for good cause shown, the Administrative Law Judge may make any order which justice requires to protect any person in the event disclosure of information is prohibited by law, privileged, confidential, or sensitive in some other way, including, but not limited to, one or more of the following—
Authorized orders.
(A) Upon motion by a party or any other affected person, and for good cause shown, the Administrative Law Judge may make any order which justice requires to protect any person in the event disclosure of information is prohibited by law, privileged, confidential, or sensitive in some other way, including, but not limited to, one or more of the following—
(1) That disclosure of information be made only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
1
) That disclosure of information be made only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(2) That a trade secret or other information not be disclosed, or be disclosed only in a designated way.
2
) That a trade secret or other information not be disclosed, or be disclosed only in a designated way.
(iii) Denials. If a motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the Administrative Law Judge may, on such terms or conditions as the Administrative Law Judge deems just, order any party or person to comply with, or respond in accordance with, the procedure involved.
Denials.
If a motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the Administrative Law Judge may, on such terms or conditions as the Administrative Law Judge deems just, order any party or person to comply with, or respond in accordance with, the procedure involved.
(iv) Public inspection of documents. The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, shall ensure that all names, addresses or other identifying details of third party taxpayers are redacted and replaced with the code assigned to the corresponding taxpayer in all documents prior to public inspection of such documents.
Public inspection of documents.
The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, shall ensure that all names, addresses or other identifying details of third party taxpayers are redacted and replaced with the code assigned to the corresponding taxpayer in all documents prior to public inspection of such documents.
(e) Location. The location of the hearing will be determined by the agreement of the parties with the approval of the Administrative Law Judge, but, in the absence of such agreement and approval, the hearing will be held in Washington, D.C.
Location.
The location of the hearing will be determined by the agreement of the parties with the approval of the Administrative Law Judge, but, in the absence of such agreement and approval, the hearing will be held in Washington, D.C.
(f) Failure to appear. If either party to the proceeding fails to appear at the hearing, after notice of the proceeding has been sent to him or her, the party will be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the Administrative Law Judge may make his or her decision against the absent party by default.
Failure to appear.
If either party to the proceeding fails to appear at the hearing, after notice of the proceeding has been sent to him or her, the party will be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the Administrative Law Judge may make his or her decision against the absent party by default.
(g) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54552, 54553, Sept. 26, 2007; T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32310, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.73   Evidence.

(a) In general. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings or proceedings conducted under this part. The Administrative Law Judge may, however, exclude evidence that is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious,
In general.
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings or proceedings conducted under this part. The Administrative Law Judge may, however, exclude evidence that is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious,
(b) Depositions. The deposition of any witness taken pursuant to § 10.71 may be admitted into evidence in any proceeding instituted under § 10.60.
Depositions.
The deposition of any witness taken pursuant to § 10.71 may be admitted into evidence in any proceeding instituted under § 10.60.
(c) Requests for admission. Any matter admitted in response to a request for admission under § 10.71 is conclusively established unless the Administrative Law Judge on motion permits withdrawal or modification of the admission. Any admission made by a party is for the purposes of the pending action only and is not an admission by a party for any other purpose, nor may it be used against a party in any other proceeding.
Requests for admission.
Any matter admitted in response to a request for admission under § 10.71 is conclusively established unless the Administrative Law Judge on motion permits withdrawal or modification of the admission. Any admission made by a party is for the purposes of the pending action only and is not an admission by a party for any other purpose, nor may it be used against a party in any other proceeding.
(d) Proof of documents. Official documents, records, and papers of the Internal Revenue Service and the Office of Professional Responsibility are admissible in evidence without the production of an officer or employee to authenticate them. Any documents, records, and papers may be evidenced by a copy attested to or identified by an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service or the Treasury Department, as the case may be.
Proof of documents.
Official documents, records, and papers of the Internal Revenue Service and the Office of Professional Responsibility are admissible in evidence without the production of an officer or employee to authenticate them. Any documents, records, and papers may be evidenced by a copy attested to or identified by an officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service or the Treasury Department, as the case may be.
(e) Withdrawal of exhibits. If any document, record, or other paper is introduced in evidence as an exhibit, the Administrative Law Judge may authorize the withdrawal of the exhibit subject to any conditions that he or she deems proper.
Withdrawal of exhibits.
If any document, record, or other paper is introduced in evidence as an exhibit, the Administrative Law Judge may authorize the withdrawal of the exhibit subject to any conditions that he or she deems proper.
(f) Objections. Objections to evidence are to be made in short form, stating the grounds for the objection. Except as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, argument on objections will not be recorded or transcribed. Rulings on objections are to be a part of the record, but no exception to a ruling is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties.
Objections.
Objections to evidence are to be made in short form, stating the grounds for the objection. Except as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, argument on objections will not be recorded or transcribed. Rulings on objections are to be a part of the record, but no exception to a ruling is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties.
(g) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable on September 26, 2007.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48765, July 26, 2002. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54552, 54554, Sept. 26, 2007]]

§ 10.74   Transcript.

In cases where the hearing is stenographically reported by a Government contract reporter, copies of the transcript may be obtained from the reporter at rates not to exceed the maximum rates fixed by contract between the Government and the reporter. Where the hearing is stenographically reported by a regular employee of the Internal Revenue Service, a copy will be supplied to the respondent either without charge or upon the payment of a reasonable fee. Copies of exhibits introduced at the hearing or at the taking of depositions will be supplied to the parties upon the payment of a reasonable fee (Sec. 501, Public Law 82-137)(65 Stat. 290)(31 U.S.C. 483a).

§ 10.75   Proposed findings and conclusions.

Except in cases where the respondent has failed to answer the complaint or where a party has failed to appear at the hearing, the parties must be afforded a reasonable opportunity to submit proposed findings and conclusions and their supporting reasons to the Administrative Law Judge.

§ 10.76   Decision of Administrative Law Judge.

(a) In general—(1) Hearings. Within 180 days after the conclusion of a hearing and the receipt of any proposed findings and conclusions timely submitted by the parties, the Administrative Law Judge should enter a decision in the case. The decision must include a statement of findings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis for making such findings and conclusions, and an order of censure, suspension, disbarment, monetary penalty, disqualification, or dismissal of the complaint.
In general
—(1)
Hearings.
Within 180 days after the conclusion of a hearing and the receipt of any proposed findings and conclusions timely submitted by the parties, the Administrative Law Judge should enter a decision in the case. The decision must include a statement of findings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis for making such findings and conclusions, and an order of censure, suspension, disbarment, monetary penalty, disqualification, or dismissal of the complaint.
(2) Summary adjudication. In the event that a motion for summary adjudication is filed, the Administrative Law Judge should rule on the motion for summary adjudication within 60 days after the party in opposition files a written response, or if no written response is filed, within 90 days after the motion for summary adjudication is filed. A decision shall thereafter be rendered if the pleadings, depositions, admissions, and any other admissible evidence show that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that a decision may be rendered as a matter of law. The decision must include a statement of conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis for making such conclusions, and an order of censure, suspension, disbarment, monetary penalty, disqualification, or dismissal of the complaint.
Summary adjudication.
In the event that a motion for summary adjudication is filed, the Administrative Law Judge should rule on the motion for summary adjudication within 60 days after the party in opposition files a written response, or if no written response is filed, within 90 days after the motion for summary adjudication is filed. A decision shall thereafter be rendered if the pleadings, depositions, admissions, and any other admissible evidence show that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that a decision may be rendered as a matter of law. The decision must include a statement of conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis for making such conclusions, and an order of censure, suspension, disbarment, monetary penalty, disqualification, or dismissal of the complaint.
(3) Returns and return information. In the decision, the Administrative Law Judge should use the code assigned to third party taxpayers (described in § 10.72(d)).
Returns and return information.
In the decision, the Administrative Law Judge should use the code assigned to third party taxpayers (described in § 10.72(d)).
(b) Standard of proof. If the sanction is censure or a suspension of less than six months' duration, the Administrative Law Judge, in rendering findings and conclusions, will consider an allegation of fact to be proven if it is established by the party who is alleging the fact by a preponderance of the evidence in the record. If the sanction is a monetary penalty, disbarment or a suspension of six months or longer duration, an allegation of fact that is necessary for a finding against the practitioner must be proven by clear and convincing evidence in the record. An allegation of fact that is necessary for a finding of disqualification against an appraiser must be proven by clear and convincing evidence in the record.
Standard of proof.
If the sanction is censure or a suspension of less than six months' duration, the Administrative Law Judge, in rendering findings and conclusions, will consider an allegation of fact to be proven if it is established by the party who is alleging the fact by a preponderance of the evidence in the record. If the sanction is a monetary penalty, disbarment or a suspension of six months or longer duration, an allegation of fact that is necessary for a finding against the practitioner must be proven by clear and convincing evidence in the record. An allegation of fact that is necessary for a finding of disqualification against an appraiser must be proven by clear and convincing evidence in the record.
(c) Copy of decision. The Administrative Law Judge will provide the decision to the Internal Revenue Service's authorized representative, and a copy of the decision to the respondent or the respondent's authorized representative.
Copy of decision.
The Administrative Law Judge will provide the decision to the Internal Revenue Service's authorized representative, and a copy of the decision to the respondent or the respondent's authorized representative.
(d) When final. In the absence of an appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury or delegate, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge will, without further proceedings, become the decision of the agency 30 days after the date of the Administrative Law Judge's decision.
When final.
In the absence of an appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury or delegate, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge will, without further proceedings, become the decision of the agency 30 days after the date of the Administrative Law Judge's decision.
(e) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54554, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32310, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.77   Appeal of decision of Administrative Law Judge.

(a) Appeal. Any party to the proceeding under this subpart D may appeal the decision of the Administrative Law Judge by filing a notice of appeal with the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals. The notice of appeal must include a brief that states exceptions to the decision of Administrative Law Judge and supporting reasons for such exceptions.
Appeal.
Any party to the proceeding under this subpart D may appeal the decision of the Administrative Law Judge by filing a notice of appeal with the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals. The notice of appeal must include a brief that states exceptions to the decision of Administrative Law Judge and supporting reasons for such exceptions.
(b) Time and place for filing of appeal. The notice of appeal and brief must be filed, in duplicate, with the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals, at an address for appeals that is identified to the parties with the decision of the Administrative Law Judge. The notice of appeal and brief must be filed within 30 days of the date that the decision of the Administrative Law Judge is served on the parties. The appealing party must serve a copy of the notice of appeal and the brief to any non-appealing party or, if the party is represented, the non-appealing party's representative.
Time and place for filing of appeal.
The notice of appeal and brief must be filed, in duplicate, with the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals, at an address for appeals that is identified to the parties with the decision of the Administrative Law Judge. The notice of appeal and brief must be filed within 30 days of the date that the decision of the Administrative Law Judge is served on the parties. The appealing party must serve a copy of the notice of appeal and the brief to any non-appealing party or, if the party is represented, the non-appealing party's representative.
(c) Response. Within 30 days of receiving the copy of the appellant's brief, the other party may file a response brief with the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals, using the address identified for appeals. A copy of the response brief must be served at the same time on the opposing party or, if the party is represented, the opposing party's representative.
Response.
Within 30 days of receiving the copy of the appellant's brief, the other party may file a response brief with the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals, using the address identified for appeals. A copy of the response brief must be served at the same time on the opposing party or, if the party is represented, the opposing party's representative.
(d) No other briefs, responses or motions as of right. Other than the appeal brief and response brief, the parties are not permitted to file any other briefs, responses or motions, except on a grant of leave to do so after a motion demonstrating sufficient cause, or unless otherwise ordered by the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals.
No other briefs, responses or motions as of right.
Other than the appeal brief and response brief, the parties are not permitted to file any other briefs, responses or motions, except on a grant of leave to do so after a motion demonstrating sufficient cause, or unless otherwise ordered by the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals.
(e) Additional time for briefs and responses. Notwithstanding the time for filing briefs and responses provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals, may, for good cause, authorize additional time for filing briefs and responses upon a motion of a party or upon the initiative of the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals.
Additional time for briefs and responses.
Notwithstanding the time for filing briefs and responses provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals, may, for good cause, authorize additional time for filing briefs and responses upon a motion of a party or upon the initiative of the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals.
(f) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32310, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.78   Decision on review.

(a) Decision on review. On appeal from or review of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, will make the agency decision. The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, should make the agency decision within 180 days after receipt of the appeal.
Decision on review.
On appeal from or review of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge, the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, will make the agency decision. The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, should make the agency decision within 180 days after receipt of the appeal.
(b) Standard of review. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge will not be reversed unless the appellant establishes that the decision is clearly erroneous in light of the evidence in the record and applicable law. Issues that are exclusively matters of law will be reviewed de novo. In the event that the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, determines that there are unresolved issues raised by the record, the case may be remanded to the Administrative Law Judge to elicit additional testimony or evidence.
Standard of review.
The decision of the Administrative Law Judge will not be reversed unless the appellant establishes that the decision is clearly erroneous in light of the evidence in the record and applicable law. Issues that are exclusively matters of law will be reviewed de novo. In the event that the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, determines that there are unresolved issues raised by the record, the case may be remanded to the Administrative Law Judge to elicit additional testimony or evidence.
(c) Copy of decision on review. The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, will provide copies of the agency decision to the authorized representative of the Internal Revenue Service and the respondent or the respondent's authorized representative.
Copy of decision on review.
The Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate, will provide copies of the agency decision to the authorized representative of the Internal Revenue Service and the respondent or the respondent's authorized representative.
(d) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54555, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32310, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.79   Effect of disbarment, suspension, or censure.

(a) Disbarment. When the final decision in a case is against the respondent (or the respondent has offered his or her consent and such consent has been accepted by the Internal Revenue Service) and such decision is for disbarment, the respondent will not be permitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service unless and until authorized to do so by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to § 10.81.
Disbarment.
When the final decision in a case is against the respondent (or the respondent has offered his or her consent and such consent has been accepted by the Internal Revenue Service) and such decision is for disbarment, the respondent will not be permitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service unless and until authorized to do so by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to § 10.81.
(b) Suspension. When the final decision in a case is against the respondent (or the respondent has offered his or her consent and such consent has been accepted by the Internal Revenue Service) and such decision is for suspension, the respondent will not be permitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service during the period of suspension. For periods after the suspension, the practitioner's future representations may be subject to conditions as authorized by paragraph (d) of this section.
Suspension.
When the final decision in a case is against the respondent (or the respondent has offered his or her consent and such consent has been accepted by the Internal Revenue Service) and such decision is for suspension, the respondent will not be permitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service during the period of suspension. For periods after the suspension, the practitioner's future representations may be subject to conditions as authorized by paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) Censure. When the final decision in the case is against the respondent (or the Internal Revenue Service has accepted the respondent's offer to consent, if such offer was made) and such decision is for censure, the respondent will be permitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service, but the respondent's future representations may be subject to conditions as authorized by paragraph (d) of this section.
Censure.
When the final decision in the case is against the respondent (or the Internal Revenue Service has accepted the respondent's offer to consent, if such offer was made) and such decision is for censure, the respondent will be permitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service, but the respondent's future representations may be subject to conditions as authorized by paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) Conditions. After being subject to the sanction of either suspension or censure, the future representations of a practitioner so sanctioned shall be subject to specified conditions designed to promote high standards of conduct. These conditions can be imposed for a reasonable period in light of the gravity of the practitioner's violations. For example, where a practitioner is censured because the practitioner failed to advise the practitioner's clients about a potential conflict of interest or failed to obtain the clients' written consents, the practitioner may be required to provide the Internal Revenue Service with a copy of all consents obtained by the practitioner for an appropriate period following censure, whether or not such consents are specifically requested.
Conditions.
After being subject to the sanction of either suspension or censure, the future representations of a practitioner so sanctioned shall be subject to specified conditions designed to promote high standards of conduct. These conditions can be imposed for a reasonable period in light of the gravity of the practitioner's violations. For example, where a practitioner is censured because the practitioner failed to advise the practitioner's clients about a potential conflict of interest or failed to obtain the clients' written consents, the practitioner may be required to provide the Internal Revenue Service with a copy of all consents obtained by the practitioner for an appropriate period following censure, whether or not such consents are specifically requested.
(e) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32310, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.80   Notice of disbarment, suspension, censure, or disqualification.

(a) In general. On the issuance of a final order censuring, suspending, or disbarring a practitioner or a final order disqualifying an appraiser, notification of the censure, suspension, disbarment or disqualification will be given to appropriate officers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service and interested departments and agencies of the Federal government. The Internal Revenue Service may determine the manner of giving notice to the proper authorities of the State by which the censured, suspended, or disbarred person was licensed to practice.
In general.
On the issuance of a final order censuring, suspending, or disbarring a practitioner or a final order disqualifying an appraiser, notification of the censure, suspension, disbarment or disqualification will be given to appropriate officers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service and interested departments and agencies of the Federal government. The Internal Revenue Service may determine the manner of giving notice to the proper authorities of the State by which the censured, suspended, or disbarred person was licensed to practice.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32311, June 3, 2011]]

§ 10.81   Petition for reinstatement.

(a) In general. A practitioner disbarred or suspended under § 10.60, or suspended under § 10.82, or a disqualified appraiser may petition for reinstatement before the Internal Revenue Service after the expiration of 5 years following such disbarment, suspension, or disqualification (or immediately following the expiration of the suspension or disqualification period, if shorter than 5 years). Reinstatement will not be granted unless the Internal Revenue Service is satisfied that the petitioner is not likely to engage thereafter in conduct contrary to the regulations in this part, and that granting such reinstatement would not be contrary to the public interest.
In general.
A practitioner disbarred or suspended under § 10.60, or suspended under § 10.82, or a disqualified appraiser may petition for reinstatement before the Internal Revenue Service after the expiration of 5 years following such disbarment, suspension, or disqualification (or immediately following the expiration of the suspension or disqualification period, if shorter than 5 years). Reinstatement will not be granted unless the Internal Revenue Service is satisfied that the petitioner is not likely to engage thereafter in conduct contrary to the regulations in this part, and that granting such reinstatement would not be contrary to the public interest.
(b) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning June 12, 2014.
[[T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33694, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.82   Expedited suspension.

(a) When applicable. Whenever the Commissioner, or delegate, determines that a practitioner is described in paragraph (b) of this section, the expedited procedures described in this section may be used to suspend the practitioner from practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
When applicable.
Whenever the Commissioner, or delegate, determines that a practitioner is described in paragraph (b) of this section, the expedited procedures described in this section may be used to suspend the practitioner from practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) To whom applicable. This section applies to any practitioner who, within 5 years prior to the date that a show cause order under this section's expedited suspension procedures is served:
To whom applicable.
This section applies to any practitioner who, within 5 years prior to the date that a show cause order under this section's expedited suspension procedures is served:
(1) Has had a license to practice as an attorney, certified public accountant, or actuary suspended or revoked for cause (not including failure to pay a professional licensing fee) by any authority or court, agency, body, or board described in § 10.51(a)(10).
(2) Has, irrespective of whether an appeal has been taken, been convicted of any crime under title 26 of the United States Code, any crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, or any felony for which the conduct involved renders the practitioner unfit to practice before the Internal Revenue Service.
(3) Has violated conditions imposed on the practitioner pursuant to § 10.79(d).
(4) Has been sanctioned by a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in a civil or criminal proceeding (including suits for injunctive relief), relating to any taxpayer's tax liability or relating to the practitioner's own tax liability, for—
(i) Instituting or maintaining proceedings primarily for delay;
(ii) Advancing frivolous or groundless arguments; or
(iii) Failing to pursue available administrative remedies.
(5) Has demonstrated a pattern of willful disreputable conduct by—
(i) Failing to make an annual Federal tax return, in violation of the Federal tax laws, during 4 of the 5 tax years immediately preceding the institution of a proceeding under paragraph (c) of this section and remains noncompliant with any of the practitioner's Federal tax filing obligations at the time the notice of suspension is issued under paragraph (f) of this section; or
(ii) Failing to make a return required more frequently than annually, in violation of the Federal tax laws, during 5 of the 7 tax periods immediately preceding the institution of a proceeding under paragraph (c) of this section and remains noncompliant with any of the practitioner's Federal tax filing obligations at the time the notice of suspension is issued under paragraph (f) of this section.
(c) Expedited suspension procedures. A suspension under this section will be proposed by a show cause order that names the respondent, is signed by an authorized representative of the Internal Revenue Service under § 10.69(a)(1), and served according to the rules set forth in § 10.63(a). The show cause order must give a plain and concise description of the allegations that constitute the basis for the proposed suspension. The show cause order must notify the respondent—
Expedited suspension procedures.
A suspension under this section will be proposed by a show cause order that names the respondent, is signed by an authorized representative of the Internal Revenue Service under § 10.69(a)(1), and served according to the rules set forth in § 10.63(a). The show cause order must give a plain and concise description of the allegations that constitute the basis for the proposed suspension. The show cause order must notify the respondent—
(1) Of the place and due date for filing a response;
(2) That an expedited suspension decision by default may be rendered if the respondent fails to file a response as required;
(3) That the respondent may request a conference to address the merits of the show cause order and that any such request must be made in the response; and
(4) That the respondent may be suspended either immediately following the expiration of the period within which a response must be filed or, if a conference is requested, immediately following the conference.
(d) Response. The response to the show cause order described in this section must be filed no later than 30 calendar days following the date the show cause order is served, unless the time for filing is extended. The response must be filed in accordance with the rules set forth for answers to a complaint in § 10.64, except as otherwise provided in this section. The response must include a request for a conference, if a conference is desired. The respondent is entitled to the conference only if the request is made in a timely filed response.
Response.
The response to the show cause order described in this section must be filed no later than 30 calendar days following the date the show cause order is served, unless the time for filing is extended. The response must be filed in accordance with the rules set forth for answers to a complaint in § 10.64, except as otherwise provided in this section. The response must include a request for a conference, if a conference is desired. The respondent is entitled to the conference only if the request is made in a timely filed response.
(e) Conference. An authorized representative of the Internal Revenue Service will preside at a conference described in this section. The conference will be held at a place and time selected by the Internal Revenue Service, but no sooner than 14 calendar days after the date by which the response must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service, unless the respondent agrees to an earlier date. An authorized representative may represent the respondent at the conference.
Conference.
An authorized representative of the Internal Revenue Service will preside at a conference described in this section. The conference will be held at a place and time selected by the Internal Revenue Service, but no sooner than 14 calendar days after the date by which the response must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service, unless the respondent agrees to an earlier date. An authorized representative may represent the respondent at the conference.
(f) Suspension—(1) In general. The Commissioner, or delegate, may suspend the respondent from practice before the Internal Revenue Service by a written notice of expedited suspension immediately following:
Suspension
—(1)
In general.
The Commissioner, or delegate, may suspend the respondent from practice before the Internal Revenue Service by a written notice of expedited suspension immediately following:
(i) The expiration of the period within which a response to a show cause order must be filed if the respondent does not file a response as required by paragraph (d) of this section;
(ii) The conference described in paragraph (e) of this section if the Internal Revenue Service finds that the respondent is described in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(iii) The respondent's failure to appear, either personally or through an authorized representative, at a conference scheduled by the Internal Revenue Service under paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Duration of suspension. A suspension under this section will commence on the date that the written notice of expedited suspension is served on the practitioner, either personally or through an authorized representative. The suspension will remain effective until the earlier of:
Duration of suspension.
A suspension under this section will commence on the date that the written notice of expedited suspension is served on the practitioner, either personally or through an authorized representative. The suspension will remain effective until the earlier of:
(i) The date the Internal Revenue Service lifts the suspension after determining that the practitioner is no longer described in paragraph (b) of this section or for any other reason; or
(ii) The date the suspension is lifted or otherwise modified by an Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary of the Treasury, or delegate deciding appeals, in a proceeding referred to in paragraph (g) of this section and instituted under § 10.60.
(g) Practitioner demand for § 10.60 proceeding. If the Internal Revenue Service suspends a practitioner under the expedited suspension procedures described in this section, the practitioner may demand that the Internal Revenue Service institute a proceeding under § 10.60 and issue the complaint described in § 10.62. The demand must be in writing, specifically reference the suspension action under § 10.82, and be made within 2 years from the date on which the practitioner's suspension commenced. The Internal Revenue Service must issue a complaint demanded under this paragraph (g) within 60 calendar days of receiving the demand. If the Internal Revenue Service does not issue such complaint within 60 days of receiving the demand, the suspension is lifted automatically. The preceding sentence does not, however, preclude the Commissioner, or delegate, from instituting a regular proceeding under § 10.60 of this part.
Practitioner demand for § 10.60 proceeding.
If the Internal Revenue Service suspends a practitioner under the expedited suspension procedures described in this section, the practitioner may demand that the Internal Revenue Service institute a proceeding under § 10.60 and issue the complaint described in § 10.62. The demand must be in writing, specifically reference the suspension action under § 10.82, and be made within 2 years from the date on which the practitioner's suspension commenced. The Internal Revenue Service must issue a complaint demanded under this paragraph (g) within 60 calendar days of receiving the demand. If the Internal Revenue Service does not issue such complaint within 60 days of receiving the demand, the suspension is lifted automatically. The preceding sentence does not, however, preclude the Commissioner, or delegate, from instituting a regular proceeding under § 10.60 of this part.
(h) Effective/applicability date. This section is generally applicable beginning June 12, 2014, except that paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is generally applicable beginning June 12, 2014, except that paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48774, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54555, Sept. 26, 2007; T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32311, June 3, 2011; T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33694, June 12, 2014]]

Subpart E—General Provisions

[Source:T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48774, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48774, July 26, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

§ 10.90   Records.

(a) Roster. The Internal Revenue Service will maintain and make available for public inspection in the time and manner prescribed by the Secretary, or delegate, the following rosters—
Roster.
The Internal Revenue Service will maintain and make available for public inspection in the time and manner prescribed by the Secretary, or delegate, the following rosters—
(1) Individuals (and employers, firms, or other entities, if applicable) censured, suspended, or disbarred from practice before the Internal Revenue Service or upon whom a monetary penalty was imposed.
(2) Enrolled agents, including individuals—
(i) Granted active enrollment to practice;
(ii) Whose enrollment has been placed in inactive status for failure to meet the requirements for renewal of enrollment;
(iii) Whose enrollment has been placed in inactive retirement status; and
(iv) Whose offer of consent to resign from enrollment has been accepted by the Internal Revenue Service under § 10.61.
(3) Enrolled retirement plan agents, including individuals—
(i) Granted active enrollment to practice;
(ii) Whose enrollment has been placed in inactive status for failure to meet the requirements for renewal of enrollment;
(iii) Whose enrollment has been placed in inactive retirement status; and
(iv) Whose offer of consent to resign from enrollment has been accepted under § 10.61.
(4) Registered tax return preparers, including individuals—
(i) Authorized to prepare all or substantially all of a tax return or claim for refund;
(ii) Who have been placed in inactive status for failure to meet the requirements for renewal;
(iii) Who have been placed in inactive retirement status; and
(iv) Whose offer of consent to resign from their status as a registered tax return preparer has been accepted by the Internal Revenue Service under § 10.61.
(5) Disqualified appraisers.
(6) Qualified continuing education providers, including providers—
(i) Who have obtained a qualifying continuing education provider number; and
(ii) Whose qualifying continuing education number has been revoked for failure to comply with the requirements of this part.
(b) Other records. Other records of the Director of the Office of Professional Responsibility may be disclosed upon specific request, in accordance with the applicable law.
Other records.
Other records of the Director of the Office of Professional Responsibility may be disclosed upon specific request, in accordance with the applicable law.
(c) Effective/applicability date. This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
Effective/applicability date.
This section is applicable beginning August 2, 2011.
[[T.D. 9359, 72 FR 54555, Sept. 26, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9527, 76 FR 32311, June 3, 2011; 76 FR 49650, Aug. 11, 2011]]

§ 10.91   Saving provision.

Any proceeding instituted under this part prior to June 12, 2014, for which a final decision has not been reached or for which judicial review is still available is not affected by these revisions. Any proceeding under this part based on conduct engaged in prior to June 12, 2014, which is instituted after that date, will apply subpart D and E of this part as revised, but the conduct engaged in prior to the effective date of these revisions will be judged by the regulations in effect at the time the conduct occurred.
[[T.D. 9668, 79 FR 33695, June 12, 2014]]

§ 10.92   Special orders.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the power to issue such special orders as he or she deems proper in any cases within the purview of this part.

§ 10.93   Effective date.

Except as otherwise provided in each section and subject to § 10.91, Part 10 is applicable on July 26, 2002.
[[T.D. 9011, 67 FR 48771, July 26, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9165, 69 FR 75845, Dec. 20, 2004]]

PART 11—OPERATION OF VENDING FACILITIES BY THE BLIND ON FEDERAL PROPERTY UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

[Authority:49 Stat. 1559, as amended by Act of Aug. 3, 1954, Pub. L. 83-565, 68 Stat. 663, as further amended by Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1622, (20 U.S.C. 107).]
Authority:
49 Stat. 1559, as amended by Act of Aug. 3, 1954, Pub. L. 83-565, 68 Stat. 663, as further amended by Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1622, (20 U.S.C. 107).
[Source:58 FR 57560, Oct. 26, 1993, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
58 FR 57560, Oct. 26, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

§ 11.1   Purpose.

This part contains policy and procedures to ensure the priority of blind vendors in operating vending facilities on property controlled by the Department of the Treasury. The provisions of this part apply to all bureaus, the Departmental Offices and the Office of Inspector General.

§ 11.2   Policy.

Blind vendors licensed by State licensing agencies designated by the Secretary of Education under the provisions of the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107 et seq.) shall be given priority in the location and operation of vending facilities, including vending machines, on property controlled by the Department of the Treasury, provided the location or operation of such facility would not adversely affect the interests of the United States. Treasury bureaus shall ensure that the collection and distribution of vending machine income from vending machines on Treasury-controlled property shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in 34 CFR 395.32. Blind vendors shall also be given priority on Treasury-controlled property in the operation of cafeterias according to 34 CFR 395.33.
et seq.
) shall be given priority in the location and operation of vending facilities, including vending machines, on property controlled by the Department of the Treasury, provided the location or operation of such facility would not adversely affect the interests of the United States. Treasury bureaus shall ensure that the collection and distribution of vending machine income from vending machines on Treasury-controlled property shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in 34 CFR 395.32. Blind vendors shall also be given priority on Treasury-controlled property in the operation of cafeterias according to 34 CFR 395.33.

§ 11.3   Definitions.

Terms used are defined in 34 CFR 395.1, except that as used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a) Department of the Treasury controlled property means any Federal building, land, or other real property owned, leased, or occupied by a bureau or office of the Department of the Treasury, of which the maintenance, operation, and protection is under the control of the Department of the Treasury.
Department of the Treasury controlled property
means any Federal building, land, or other real property owned, leased, or occupied by a bureau or office of the Department of the Treasury, of which the maintenance, operation, and protection is under the control of the Department of the Treasury.
(b) The term bureau means any bureau or office of the Department of the Treasury and such comparable administrative units as may hereafter be created or made a part of the Department, and includes the Departmental Offices and the Office of Inspector General. The “head of the bureau” for the Departmental Offices is the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Administration).
bureau
means any bureau or office of the Department of the Treasury and such comparable administrative units as may hereafter be created or made a part of the Department, and includes the Departmental Offices and the Office of Inspector General. The “head of the bureau” for the Departmental Offices is the Deputy Assistant Secretary (Administration).

§ 11.4   Establishing vending facilities.

(a) Treasury bureaus shall not acquire a building by ownership, rent, or lease, or occupy a building to be constructed, substantially altered, or renovated unless it is determined that such buildings contain or will contain a “satisfactory site,” as defined in 34 CFR 395.1(q), for the location and operation of a blind vending facility.
(b) In accordance with 34 CFR 395.31, Treasury bureaus shall provide the appropriate State licensing agency with written notice of the intention to acquire or otherwise occupy such building. Providing notification shall be the responsibility of the bureau on-site property management official.

§ 11.5   Application for permit.

Applications for permits for the operation of vending facilities other than cafeterias shall be made in writing and submitted for the review and approval of the head of the appropriate Treasury bureau or that official's designee.

§ 11.6   Terms of permit.

Every permit shall describe the location of the vending facility, including any vending machines located on other than facility premises, and shall be subject to the following provisions:
(a) The permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant State licensing agency which shall perform the responsibilities set forth in 34 CFR 395.35 (a);
(b) The permit shall be issued for an indefinite period of time subject to suspension or termination on the basis of compliance or noncompliance with agreed upon terms.
(c) The permit shall provide that:
(1) No charge shall be made to the State licensing agency for normal cleaning, maintenance, and repair of the building structure in and adjacent to the vending facility areas;
(2) Cleaning necessary for sanitation; the maintenance of vending facilities and vending machines in an orderly condition at all times; the installation, maintenance, repair, replacement, servicing, and removal of vending facility equipment shall be without cost to the Department of the Treasury; and
(3) Articles sold at vending facilities operated by blind licensees may consist of newspapers, periodicals, publications, confections, tobacco products, foods, beverages, chances for any lottery authorized by State law and conducted by an agency of a State within such State, and other articles or services as are determined by the State licensing agency, in consultation with the appropriate Treasury bureau, to be suitable for a particular location. Such articles and services may be dispensed automatically or manually and may be prepared on or off the premises.
(d) The permit shall further provide that vending facilities shall be operated in compliance with applicable health, sanitation, and building codes or ordinances.
(e) The permit shall further provide that installation, modification, relocation, removal, and renovation of vending facilities shall be subject to the prior approval and supervision of the bureau on-site property management officer of the appropriate Treasury bureau and the State licensing agency; that costs of relocations initiated by the State licensing agency shall be paid by the State licensing agency; that costs of relocations initiated by a Treasury bureau shall be paid by the Treasury bureau; and that all plumbing, electrical, and mechanical costs related to the renovation of existing facilities shall be paid by the appropriate Treasury bureau.
(f) The operation of a cafeteria by a blind vendor shall be covered by a contractual agreement and not by a permit. The State licensing agency shall be expected to perform under the same contractual arrangement applicable to commercial cafeteria operators.

§ 11.7   Enforcement procedures.

(a) The State licensing agency shall attempt to resolve day-to-day problems pertaining to the operation of the vending facility in an informal manner with the participation of the blind vendor and the on-site property management officials of the respective Treasury bureaus who are responsible for the Treasury-controlled property.
(b) Unresolved disagreements concerning the terms of the permit, the Act, or the regulations in this part and any other unresolved matters shall be reported in writing to the State licensing agency supervisory personnel by the bureau on-site supervisory property management official in an attempt to resolve the issue.

§ 11.8   Reports.

This section establishes a Department of the Treasury reporting requirement to comply with 34 CFR 395.38. At the end of each fiscal year, each property managing bureau shall submit a report to the Director, Office of Management Support Systems, Departmental Offices, containing the elements set forth in 34 CFR 395.38. The Director, Office of Management Support Systems, shall submit a consolidated report to the Secretary of Education after the end of the fiscal year.

PART 12—RESTRICTION OF SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS

[Authority:Sec. 636, Pub. L. 104-52, 109 Stat. 507.]
Authority:
Sec. 636, Pub. L. 104-52, 109 Stat. 507.
[Source:61 FR 25396, May 21, 1996, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
61 FR 25396, May 21, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

§ 12.1   Purpose.

This part contains regulations implementing the “Prohibition of Cigarette Sales to Minors in Federal Buildings Act,” Public Law 104-52, Section 636, with respect to buildings under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Treasury.

§ 12.2   Definitions.

As used in this part—
(1) The term Federal building under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Treasury includes the real property on which such building is located;
Federal building under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Treasury
includes the real property on which such building is located;
(2) The term minor means an individual under the age of 18 years; and
minor
means an individual under the age of 18 years; and
(3) The term tobacco product means cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, pipe tobacco, smokeless tobacco, snuff, and chewing tobacco.
tobacco product
means cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, pipe tobacco, smokeless tobacco, snuff, and chewing tobacco.

§ 12.3   Sale of tobacco products in vending machines prohibited.

The sale of tobacco products in vending machines located in or around any Federal building under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Treasury is prohibited, except in areas designated pursuant to § 12.5 of this part.

§ 12.4   Distribution of free samples of tobacco products prohibited.

The distribution of free samples of tobacco products in or around any Federal building under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Treasury is prohibited, except in areas designated pursuant to § 12.5 of this part.

§ 12.5   Prohibitions not applicable in areas designated by the Secretary of the Treasury.

The prohibitions set forth in this part shall not apply in areas designated by the Secretary as exempt from the prohibitions, but all designated areas must prohibit the presence of minors.

PART 13—PROCEDURES FOR PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS IN PROTECTING FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS

[Authority:Secs. 202 and 208, Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended and added, respectively by Pub. L. 94-196 (89 Stat. 1109); 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
Secs. 202 and 208, Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended and added, respectively by Pub. L. 94-196 (89 Stat. 1109); 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:41 FR 55179, Dec. 17, 1976, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
41 FR 55179, Dec. 17, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

§ 13.1   Purpose.

This part prescribes the procedures governing protective and financial assistance to State and local governments when an extraordinary protective need requires the protection of foreign diplomatic missions as authorized by sections 202 and 208 of Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended and added, respectively, by Pub. L. 94-196 (89 Stat. 1109).

§ 13.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, these terms shall have the following meaning:
(a) The term Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Enforcement and Operations).
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Enforcement and Operations).
(b) The term extraordinary protective need means a need for protection requiring measurable reinforcements of police personnel or equipment, or both, significantly beyond the ordinary deployment of the State or local government, arising out of actual or potential violence related to: (1) Confrontations between nationalist or other groups, (2) threats or acts of violence by terrorist or other groups, (3) a specific diplomatic event or visit, or (4) a specific international event.
extraordinary protective need
means a need for protection requiring measurable reinforcements of police personnel or equipment, or both, significantly beyond the ordinary deployment of the State or local government, arising out of actual or potential violence related to: (1) Confrontations between nationalist or other groups, (2) threats or acts of violence by terrorist or other groups, (3) a specific diplomatic event or visit, or (4) a specific international event.
(c) The term foreign diplomatic mission means a mission (including foreign consular offices) of a foreign country located in the United States.
foreign diplomatic mission
means a mission (including foreign consular offices) of a foreign country located in the United States.
(d) The term full time officers means permanent officers whose duties as foreign diplomatic officers occupy their full time.
full time officers
means permanent officers whose duties as foreign diplomatic officers occupy their full time.
(e) The term international organization means those international organizations designated by Presidential Executive Order as being entitled to the privileges, immunities, and exemptions accorded under the International Organization Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288).
international organization
means those international organizations designated by Presidential Executive Order as being entitled to the privileges, immunities, and exemptions accorded under the International Organization Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288).
(f) The term metropolitan area means a city in the United States (other than the District of Columbia) and those areas contiguous to it.
metropolitan area
means a city in the United States (other than the District of Columbia) and those areas contiguous to it.
(g) The term observer mission means a mission invited to participate in the work of an international organization by that organization. The invitation to participate shall be extended by the international organization pursuant to the same internal rules of the international organization as are applicable to any permanent mission.
observer mission
means a mission invited to participate in the work of an international organization by that organization. The invitation to participate shall be extended by the international organization pursuant to the same internal rules of the international organization as are applicable to any permanent mission.
(h) The term permanent mission means a fixed continuing mission staffed by full time officers and maintained by a member state of an international organization.
permanent mission
means a fixed continuing mission staffed by full time officers and maintained by a member state of an international organization.
(i) The term temporary domicile means a domicile of limited duration of a visiting foreign dignitary or officer in connection with a visit to a permanent or observer mission to an international organization in a metropolitan area.
temporary domicile
means a domicile of limited duration of a visiting foreign dignitary or officer in connection with a visit to a permanent or observer mission to an international organization in a metropolitan area.
[[41 FR 55179, Dec. 17, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 30621, May 9, 1980]]

§ 13.3   Eligibility to receive protection or reimbursement.

(a) Protection, as determined by the Assistant Secretary, will be provided by the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division, pursuant to section 202 of Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended by Pub. L. 94-196, only to foreign diplomatic missions located in metropolitan areas (other than the District of Columbia) where there are located twenty or more such missions, as determined by the Secretary of State, which are headed by full time officers. According to present State Department figures, the following metropolitan areas have 20 or more such foreign diplomatic missions: Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, New Orleans and San Francisco. The protection provided by State or local governments rather than the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division will be reimbursed pursuant to section 208(a) of Title 3, U.S. Code and §§ 13.6, 13.7 and 13.8 of this part.
(b) Protection or reimbursement will be provided for the metropolitan areas described in paragraph (a) of this section only if:
(1) The affected metropolitan area requests such protection or reimbursement;
(2) The Assistant Secretary determines that an extraordinary protective need exists; and
(3) The extraordinary need arises in association with a visit to or occurs at or, pursuant to § 13.6, in the vicinity of: (i) A permanent mission to an international organization of which the United States is a member, (ii) an observer mission invited to participate in the work of an international organization of which the United States is a member, or (iii) in the case of a visit by a foreign official or dignitary to participate in an activity of an international organization of which the United States is a member, a foreign diplomatic mission, including a consular office of the same country as the visitor.
(c) Protection (or reimbursement) may be extended at places of temporary domicile in connection with a visit under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Where an extraordinary protective need exists, protection (or reimbursement) may be extended to missions as described in §§ 13.3(b)(3) (i) and (ii) whether or not associated with a visit by a foreign dignitary.
[[45 FR 30621, May 9, 1980]]

§ 13.4   Requests for protection and advance notices of reimbursement requests.

(a) In cases where they believe that an extraordinary protective need exists, the State or local governments may request that protection be provided by the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division; or they may give advance notice of their intention to provide, on a reimbursable basis, all or part of the protection themselves.
(1) Requests for protection or advance notices of reimbursement requests shall be made to: Assistant Secretary (Enforcement and Operations), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220. Each government requesting the protection authorized pursuant to section 202 of Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended by Pub. L. 94-196, or which intends to seek reimbursement pursuant to section 208(a) of Title 3, U.S. Code and §§ 13.6 and 13.7 of this part, shall submit an application describing the extraordinary protective need. Applications made pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the Assistant Secretary 14 days before the extraordinary protective need arises. In association with a visit, the application shall include the name and title of the visiting foreign official or dignitary, the country he represents, and the name and location of the international organization or mission he will be visting. The application shall also include, if available, the temporary domicile of the visiting official or dignitary and his schedule, including dates and times of arrival and departure from the United States. If the extraordinary protective need occurs at a permanent mission to an international organization of which the United States is a member or an observer mission invited to participate in the work of such organization, or if another foreign diplomatic mission of the country qualifies under § 13.3 (b) or (d), the application shall include the name and location of the mission.
(b) State and local governments shall also indicate on the application whether they are requesting the use of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division or whether they are giving advance notice of their intention to provide, on a reimbursable basis, all or part of the protection themselves. In order to assist the Assistant Secretary in determining whether to utilize the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division to meet all or part of the extraordinary protective need, or to utilize, with their consent, the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of the State or local government, or both, the application must include an estimate of the approximate number of personnel by grade and rank, the services, equipment, and facilities required, along with an estimate of the cost of such personnel, services, equipment and facilities. This application must be submitted in a format consistent with that illustrated in a

appendix I of this part.
(1) Upon receipt of a request for protection pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section and for the purposes of reimbursement pursuant to §§ 13.6 and 13.7, the Assistant Secretary will determine whether an extraordinary protective need exists and whether the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division will be used for all, part or none of the protection. In making determinations, the Assistant Secretary may consult with appropriate Federal, State and local government agencies.
[[45 FR 30621, May 9, 1980]]

§ 13.5   Utilization of the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of State and local governments.

The Assistant Secretary may decide to utilize, on a reimbursable basis, the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of State and local governments of the affected metropolitan area desiring to provide protection, or he may utilize the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division, or both. If the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division is utilized to meet all the extraordinary protective need, the governments of the affected metropolitan area will not be reimbursed. If the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division is utilized to meet part of the extraordinary protective needs, the governments of the affected metropolitan area will be reimbursed for that qualifying portion of the protection which is provided by State and local police authorities. If the Assistant Secretary decides to utilize, with their consent, the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of such State and local governments to meet the extraordinary protective need, he will so notify the government as soon as possible after receipt of a request for protection or an advance notice of a reimbursement request made pursuant to § 13.4.
[[45 FR 30622, May 9, 1980]]

§ 13.6   Reimbursement of State and local governments.

(a) State and local governments providing services, personnel, equipment, or facilities to the affected metropolitan area pursuant to § 13.5 may forward to the Assistant Secretary a bill for reimbursement for the personnel, equipment, facilities, and services utilized in meeting the extraordinary protective need. The bill shall be in accordance with the format in appendix II of this part. The Assistant Secretary will reimburse only those costs directly related to the extraordinary protective need including personnel and equipment costs resulting from assignments made to assist in providing security at an otherwise qualified location in connection with the arrival, departure, or during the visit of a foreign dignitary. Reimbursable costs will also include the costs for establishing both fixed posts at a qualified location and protective perimeters outside of a qualified location when it is clearly established to the satisfaction of the Assistant Secretary that such assignments were necessary to assure the safety of the qualified location. Overhead and administrative costs associated with an extraordinary protective need are reimbursable as either a flat 18 percent of the total extraordinary protective need costs, or, if such costs can be clearly segregated from routine police costs, on a dollar-for-dollar basis. The jurisdiction seeking such reimbursement may select either method but may not use both. For the purposes of reimbursement the Assistant Secretary will, in all cases, determine when the extraordinary protective need began and terminated.
[[45 FR 30622, May 9, 1980]]

§ 13.7   Reimbursement when the Assistant Secretary makes no determination to utilize State and local government services, personnel, equipment and facilities.

(a) Where events require the State or local governments of the affected metropolitan area to provide protection to meet an extraordinary protective need otherwise qualifying for reimbursement, such reimbursement may be made even if the provisions of §§ 13.4 and 13.5 have not been complied with fully. In such circumstances the provisions of § 13.6 shall apply.
(b) In cases where State or local governments, or both, utilized their own services, personnel, equipment, and facilities to provide protection for an extraordinary protective need, and no request for protective assistance pursuant to § 13.4 was made because the extraordinary protective need occurred prior to the promulgation of this part but after July 1, 1974, an application by such government to the Assistant Secretary for reimbursement otherwise conforming to the requirements of this part will be considered.
[[41 FR 55179, Dec. 17, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 30622, May 9, 1980]]

§ 13.8   Protection for motorcades and other places associated with a visit qualifying under section 202(7) of Title 3, U.S. Code.

(a) State and local governments furnishing services, personnel, equipment, and facilities to provide protection for motorcades and at other places associated with a visit qualifying under section 202(7) of Title 3, U.S. Code may forward to the Assistant Secretary a bill for reimbursement for the personnel, equipment, facilities, and services utilized in providing such protection.
(b) Requests for payments under this section shall conform to the procedures established elsewhere in this part governing reimbursements arising out of an extraordinary protective need.
[[45 FR 30622, May 9, 1980]]

Appendix I(F) to Part 13—Estimated Overhead and Administrative Costs

Date:
Select Only One Method
___ 1. Reimbursement for overhead and administrative costs will be requested as a flat 18 percent of the total extraordinary protective need cost as provided in section 13.6 of these regulations.
___ 2. Reimbursement for overhead and administrative costs will be requested on a dollar-for-dollar basis. Computation of these costs will be made using the below described method:
(Explain in detail how all of these costs can be directly and exclusively attributed to the extraordinary protective need.)
[[45 FR 30622, May 9, 1980]]

Appendix II(F) to Part 13—Overhead and Administrative Costs

Date:
Select Only One Method
___ 1. Reimbursement for overhead and administrative costs is requested as a flat 18 percent of the total extraordinary protective need costs as provided in section 13.6 of these regulations.
___ 2. Reimbursement for overhead and administrative costs is requested on a dollar-for-dollar basis. Computation of these costs has been made using the below described method:
(Explain and show in detail how all of these costs have been directly and exclusively attributed extraordinary protective need costs).
Dated:
[[45 FR 30622, May 9, 1980]]

Appendix I to Part 13—Form of Request for Assistance

I hereby request assistance from the Department of the Treasury pursuant to Section 202 of Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended by Pub. L. 94-196. This assistance is needed to enable the affected metropolitan area of ______ to meet an extraordinary protective need, which is expected to arise on ______ (date).
The nature of the extraordinary protective need prompting this request is as follows:
(If in association with a visit, include the name and title of the visiting foreign official or dignitary, the country represented and the name and location of the international organization involved and/or mission to be visited. The temporary domicile of the visiting official or dignitary and his schedule, including dates and times of arrival and departure from the United States, if available, must also be included. If the extraordinary protective need occurs at or, pursuant to § 13.6 of 31 CFR part 13, in the vicinity of, a permanent mission to an international organization of which the United States is a member or at an observer mission invited to participate in the work of the organization, the application shall include the name and location of the mission. If the extraordinary protective need occurs at a foreign diplomatic mission, including a consular office, in conjunction with a qualifying visit by a foreign official or dignitary of the same country as that mission, the application shall include the name and location of the mission or office. If, pursuant to § 13.8, the visiting foreign official is to travel by motorcade and/or visit locations other than his foreign mission or temporary domicile, the application shall include a description of the anticipated motorcade routes and all stops on the routes as well as the name (or description) and location of any other places to be visited.
The ______ (Government entity) ______ (is or is not) ______ prepared to provide ______ (all or a portion of) the protection required to meet this need. Attached is an estimate of the appropriate number of personnel, by grade and rank, and the specific services, equipment and facilities which will be required to meet this extraordinary protective need, along with an estimate of the cost of such personnel, services, equipment, and facilities.
(Date)
(State or local government of the affected metropolitan area)
(Signature)
(Title)
[[45 FR 30622, May 9, 1980]]

Appendix II to Part 13—Form of Bill for Reimbursement

I hereby request that ______ (Governmental entity) be reimbursed by the Department of the Treasury pursuant to sections 202 and 208 of Title 3, U.S. Code, as amended and added, respectively, by Public Law 94-196 (89 Stat. 1109) (and/or pursuant to Public Law 96-74) for expenses incurred while providing an adequate level of protection during the extraordinary protective need arising in association with a visit of ______ (Official or dignitary's name and title) of ______ (Country) to participate in the work of ______ (International Organization) or occurring at the _______ (Permanent or observer mission) to ______ (International organization) during the period ______ (Date) through ______ (Date).
I certify that the level of protection provided was both reasonable and necessary; that the costs herein billed are only those direct costs associated with meeting the extraordinary protective need; and that the costs herein billed are not costs of an indirect nature such as administrative costs, overhead, and depreciation, except as provided in § 13.6(a) of 31 CFR 13.
Access to all records, accounts, receipts, etc., pertaining to the costs herein billed will be accorded to representatives of the Assistant Secretary (Enforcement and Operations) and the General Accounting Office at such reasonable times and places as may be mutually agreed upon by said representatives and ______ (Governmental entity).
Date:
(Signature)
(Title)
[[45 FR 30623, May 9, 1980]]

PART 14—RIGHT TO FINANCIAL PRIVACY ACT

[Authority:Sec. 1108, Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, 92 Stat. 3697 et seq., 12 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.; (5 U.S.C. 301); and Reorganization Plan No. 26 of 1950.]
Authority:
Sec. 1108, Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, 92 Stat. 3697
et seq.,
12 U.S.C. 3401
et seq.;
(5 U.S.C. 301); and Reorganization Plan No. 26 of 1950.
[Source:44 FR 16909, Mar. 20, 1979, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
44 FR 16909, Mar. 20, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

§ 14.1   Definitions.

For purposes of this regulation, the term:
(a) Financial institution means any office of a bank, savings bank, card issuer as defined in section 103 of the Consumer Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1602(n)), industrial loan company, trust company, savings and loan, building and loan, or homestead association (including cooperative bank), credit union, or consumer financial institution, located in any State or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Virgin Islands.
Financial institution
means any office of a bank, savings bank, card issuer as defined in section 103 of the Consumer Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1602(n)), industrial loan company, trust company, savings and loan, building and loan, or homestead association (including cooperative bank), credit union, or consumer financial institution, located in any State or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Virgin Islands.
(b) Financial record means an original of, a copy of, or information known to have been derived from, any record held by a financial institution pertaining to a customer's relationship with the financial institution.
Financial record
means an original of, a copy of, or information known to have been derived from, any record held by a financial institution pertaining to a customer's relationship with the financial institution.
(c) Person means an individual or a partnership of five or fewer individuals.
Person
means an individual or a partnership of five or fewer individuals.
(d) Customer means any person or authorized representative of that person who utilized or is utilizing any service of a financial institution, or for whom a financial institution is acting or has acted as a fiduciary, in relation to an account maintained in the person's name.
Customer
means any person or authorized representative of that person who utilized or is utilizing any service of a financial institution, or for whom a financial institution is acting or has acted as a fiduciary, in relation to an account maintained in the person's name.
(e) Law enforcement inquiry means a lawful investigation or official proceeding inquiring into a violation of or failure to comply with any criminal or civil statute or any regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto.
Law enforcement inquiry
means a lawful investigation or official proceeding inquiring into a violation of or failure to comply with any criminal or civil statute or any regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto.
(f) Departmental unit means those offices, divisions, bureaus, or other components of the Department of the treasury authorized to conduct law enforcement inquiries.
Departmental unit
means those offices, divisions, bureaus, or other components of the Department of the treasury authorized to conduct law enforcement inquiries.
(g) Act means the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978.
Act
means the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978.

§ 14.2   Purpose.

The purpose of these regulations is to authorize Departmental units to request financial records from a financial institution pursuant to the formal written request procedure authorized by section 1108 of the Act, and to set forth the conditions under which such requests may be made.

§ 14.3   Authorization.

Departmental units are hereby authorized to request financial records of any customer from a financial institution pursuant to a formal written request under the Act only if:
(a) No administrative summons or subpoena authority reasonably appears to be available to the Departmental unit to obtain financial records for the purpose for which the records are sought;
(b) There is reason to believe that the records sought are relevant to a legitimate law enforcement inquiry and will further that inquiry;
(c) The request is issued by a supervisory official of a rank designated by the head of the requesting Departmental unit. Officials so designated shall not delegate this authority to others;
(d) The request adheres to the requirements set forth in § 14.4; and
(e) The notice requirements set forth in section 1108(4) of the Act, or the requirements pertaining to delay of notice in section 1109 of the Act are satisfied, except in situations where no notice is required. (e.g., section 1113(g))

§ 14.4   Contents of request.

The formal written request shall be in the form of a letter or memorandum to an appropriate official of the financial institution from which financial records are requested. The request shall be signed by an issuing official of the requesting Department unit. It shall set forth that official's name, title, business address and business phone number. The request shall also contain the following:
(a) The identity of the customer or customers to whom the records pertain;
(b) A reasonable description of the records sought;
(c) Any other information that the issuing official deems appropriate, e.g., the date on which the requesting Departmental unit expects to present a certificate of compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act, the name and title of the individual to whom disclosure is to be made, etc.
In cases where customer notice is delayed by a court order, a copy of the court order shall be attached to the formal written request.

§ 14.5   Certification.

Prior to obtaining the requested records pursuant to a formal written request, an official of a rank designated by the head of the requesting Departmental unit shall certify in writing to the financial institution that the Departmental unit has complied with the applicable provisions of the Act.

PART 15—POST EMPLOYMENT CONFLICT OF INTEREST

[Authority:92 Stat. 1864 (18 U.S.C. 207), as amended.]
Authority:
92 Stat. 1864 (18 U.S.C. 207), as amended.
[Source:45 FR 39842, June 12, 1980, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
45 FR 39842, June 12, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 15.737-1   Scope.

This part contains rules governing discipline of a former officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury because of a post employment conflict of interest. Such discipline may include prohibition from practice before the Department or a separate statutory agency thereof as those terms are defined in this part.

§ 15.737-2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part—
(a) The term Department means the Department of the Treasury and includes the separate statutory agencies thereof.
Department
means the Department of the Treasury and includes the separate statutory agencies thereof.
(b) The term Director means the Director of Practice.
Director
means the Director of Practice.
(c) The term General Counsel means the General Counsel of the Department.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the Department.
(d) The term practice means any informal or formal appearance before, or, with the intent to influence, any oral or written communication to the Department or, where applicable, to a separate statutory agency thereof on a pending matter of business on behalf of any other person (except the United States).
practice
means any informal or formal appearance before, or, with the intent to influence, any oral or written communication to the Department or, where applicable, to a separate statutory agency thereof on a pending matter of business on behalf of any other person (except the United States).
(e) The term separate statutory agency thereof means an agency or bureau within the Department designated by rule by the Director, Office of Government Ethics, as a separate agency or bureau. The Internal Revenue Service, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, United States Secret Service, Bureau of the Mint, United States Customs Service, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and Comptroller of the Currency were so designated effective July 1, 1979.
separate statutory agency thereof
means an agency or bureau within the Department designated by rule by the Director, Office of Government Ethics, as a separate agency or bureau. The Internal Revenue Service, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, United States Secret Service, Bureau of the Mint, United States Customs Service, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and Comptroller of the Currency were so designated effective July 1, 1979.

§ 15.737-3   Director of Practice.

There is, in the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, the Office of Director of Practice. The Director shall institute and provide for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings involving former employees of the Department as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 207(j), and perform such other duties as are necessary or appropriate to carry out his/her functions under this part.

§ 15.737-4   Other discipline.

For activity alleged to violate 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c), the Director may also bring a disciplinary proceeding pursuant to the regulations governing practice before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms or the Internal Revenue Service as found in 31 CFR part 8 and 31 CFR part 10, respectively. Such proceeding may be consolidated with any proceeding brought pursuant to this part.

§ 15.737-5   Records.

There are made available to public inspection at the Office of Director of Practice the roster of all persons prohibited from practice before the Department. Other records may be disclosed upon specific request, in accordance with appropriate disclosure regulations of the Department.

Subpart B—Rules Applicable to Post Employment Practice by Officers and Employees of the Department


§ 15.737-6   Interpretative standards.

A determination that a former officer or employee of the Department violated 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c) will be made in conformance with the standards established in the interpretative regulations promulgated by the Office of Government Ethics and published at 5 CFR part 737.

Subpart C—Administrative Enforcement Proceedings


§ 15.737-7   Authority to prohibit practice.

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 207(j), if the General Counsel finds, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that a former officer or employee of the Department violated 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c), the General Counsel in his/her discretion may prohibit that person from engaging in practice before the Department or a separate statutory agency thereof for a period not to exceed five years, or may take other appropriate disciplinary action.

§ 15.737-8   Special orders.

The General Counsel may issue special orders as he/she may consider proper in any case within the purview of this part.

§ 15.737-9   Receipt of information concerning former Treasury employee.

If an officer or employee of the Department has reason to believe that a former officer or employee of the Department has violated 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c), or if any such officer or employee receives information to that effect, he/she shall promptly make a written report thereof, which report or a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Inspector General, Department of the Treasury. If any other person has information of such violations, he/she may make a report thereof to the Inspector General or to any officer or employee of the Department. The Inspector General shall refer any information he/she deems warranted to the Director.

§ 15.737-10   Conferences.

(a) In general. The Director may confer with a former officer or employee concerning allegations of misconduct irrespective of whether an administrative disciplinary proceeding has been instituted against him/her. If such conference results in a stipulation in connection with a proceeding in which such person is the respondent, the stipulation may be entered in the record at the instance of either party to the proceeding.
In general.
The Director may confer with a former officer or employee concerning allegations of misconduct irrespective of whether an administrative disciplinary proceeding has been instituted against him/her. If such conference results in a stipulation in connection with a proceeding in which such person is the respondent, the stipulation may be entered in the record at the instance of either party to the proceeding.
(b) Voluntary suspension. A former officer or employee, in order to avoid the institution or conclusion of a proceeding, may offer his/her consent to suspension from practice before the Department or a separate statutory agency thereof. The Director in his/her discretion, may suspend a former officer or employee in accordance with the consent offered.
Voluntary suspension.
A former officer or employee, in order to avoid the institution or conclusion of a proceeding, may offer his/her consent to suspension from practice before the Department or a separate statutory agency thereof. The Director in his/her discretion, may suspend a former officer or employee in accordance with the consent offered.

§ 15.737-11   Institution of proceeding.

(a) Whenever the Director has reason to believe that any former officer or employee of the Department has violated 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c), he/she may reprimand such person or institute an administrative disciplinary proceeding for that person's suspension from practice before the Department or a separate statutory agency thereof. The proceeding shall be instituted by a complaint which names the respondent and is signed by the Director and filed in his/her office. Except in cases of willfulness, or where time, the nature of the proceeding, or the public interest does not permit, a proceeding will not be instituted under this section until facts or conduct which may warrant such action have been called to the attention of the proposed respondent in writing and he/she has been accorded the opportunity to provide his/her position on the matter.
(b) The Director shall coordinate proceedings under this part with the Department of Justice in cases where it initiates criminal prosecution.

§ 15.737-12   Contents of complaint.

(a) Charges. A complaint shall give a plain and concise description of the allegations which constitute the basis for the proceeding. A complaint shall be deemed sufficient if it fairly informs the respondent of the charges against him/her so that the respondent is able to prepare a defense.
Charges.
A complaint shall give a plain and concise description of the allegations which constitute the basis for the proceeding. A complaint shall be deemed sufficient if it fairly informs the respondent of the charges against him/her so that the respondent is able to prepare a defense.
(b) Demand for answer. In the complaint, or in a separate paper attached to the complaint, notification shall be given of the place and time within which the respondent shall file his/her answer, which time shall not be less than 15 days from the date of service of the complaint, and notice shall be given that a decision by default may be rendered against the respondent in the event he/she fails to file an answer as required.
Demand for answer.
In the complaint, or in a separate paper attached to the complaint, notification shall be given of the place and time within which the respondent shall file his/her answer, which time shall not be less than 15 days from the date of service of the complaint, and notice shall be given that a decision by default may be rendered against the respondent in the event he/she fails to file an answer as required.

§ 15.737-13   Service of complaint and other papers.

(a) Complaint. The complaint or a copy thereof may be served upon the respondent by certified mail, or first-class mail as hereinafter provided; by delivering it to the respondent or his/her attorney or agent of record either in person or by leaving it at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney or agent; or in any other manner which has been agreed to by the respondent. Where the service is by certified mail, the return post office receipt duly signed by or on behalf of the respondent shall be proof of service. If the certified mail is not claimed or accepted by the respondent and is returned undelivered, complete service may be made upon the respondent by mailing the complaint to him/her by first-class mail, addressed to him/her at the last address known to the Director. If service is made upon the respondent or his/her attorney or agent of record in person or by leaving the complaint at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney or agent, the verified return by the person making service, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of such service.
Complaint.
The complaint or a copy thereof may be served upon the respondent by certified mail, or first-class mail as hereinafter provided; by delivering it to the respondent or his/her attorney or agent of record either in person or by leaving it at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney or agent; or in any other manner which has been agreed to by the respondent. Where the service is by certified mail, the return post office receipt duly signed by or on behalf of the respondent shall be proof of service. If the certified mail is not claimed or accepted by the respondent and is returned undelivered, complete service may be made upon the respondent by mailing the complaint to him/her by first-class mail, addressed to him/her at the last address known to the Director. If service is made upon the respondent or his/her attorney or agent of record in person or by leaving the complaint at the office or place of business of the respondent, attorney or agent, the verified return by the person making service, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of such service.
(b) Service of papers other than complaint. Any paper other than the complaint may be served upon a respondent as provided in paragraph (a) of this section or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent at the last address known to the Director, or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent's attorney or agent of record. Such mailing shall constitute complete service. Notices may be served upon the respondent or his/her attorney or agent of record by telegraph.
Service of papers other than complaint.
Any paper other than the complaint may be served upon a respondent as provided in paragraph (a) of this section or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent at the last address known to the Director, or by mailing the paper by first-class mail to the respondent's attorney or agent of record. Such mailing shall constitute complete service. Notices may be served upon the respondent or his/her attorney or agent of record by telegraph.
(c) Filing of papers. Whenever the filing of a paper is required or permitted in connection with a proceeding, and the place of filing is not specified by this subpart or by rule or order of the Administrative Law Judge, the paper shall be filed with the Director of Practice, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220. All papers shall be filed in duplicate.
Filing of papers.
Whenever the filing of a paper is required or permitted in connection with a proceeding, and the place of filing is not specified by this subpart or by rule or order of the Administrative Law Judge, the paper shall be filed with the Director of Practice, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220. All papers shall be filed in duplicate.

§ 15.737-14   Answer.

(a) Filing. The respondent's answer shall be filed in writing within the time specified in the complaint, unless on application the time is extended by the Director or the Administrative Law Judge. The answer shall be filed in duplicate with the Director.
Filing.
The respondent's answer shall be filed in writing within the time specified in the complaint, unless on application the time is extended by the Director or the Administrative Law Judge. The answer shall be filed in duplicate with the Director.
(b) Contents. The answer shall contain a statement of facts which constitute the grounds of defense, and it shall specifically admit or deny each allegation set forth in the complaint, except that the respondent shall not deny a material allegation in the complaint which he/she knows to be true, or state that he/she is without sufficient information to form a belief when in fact he/she possesses such information. The respondent may also state affirmatively special matters of defense.
Contents.
The answer shall contain a statement of facts which constitute the grounds of defense, and it shall specifically admit or deny each allegation set forth in the complaint, except that the respondent shall not deny a material allegation in the complaint which he/she knows to be true, or state that he/she is without sufficient information to form a belief when in fact he/she possesses such information. The respondent may also state affirmatively special matters of defense.
(c) Failure to deny or answer allegations in the complaint. Every allegation in the complaint which is not denied in the answer shall be deemed to be admitted and may be considered as proved, and no further evidence in respect of such allegation need be adduced at a hearing. Failure to file an answer within the time prescribed in the notice to the respondent, except as the time for answer is extended by the Director or the Administrative Law Judge, shall constitute an admission of the allegations of the complaint and a waiver of hearing, and the Administrative Law Judge may make his/her decision by default without a hearing or further procedure.
Failure to deny or answer allegations in the complaint.
Every allegation in the complaint which is not denied in the answer shall be deemed to be admitted and may be considered as proved, and no further evidence in respect of such allegation need be adduced at a hearing. Failure to file an answer within the time prescribed in the notice to the respondent, except as the time for answer is extended by the Director or the Administrative Law Judge, shall constitute an admission of the allegations of the complaint and a waiver of hearing, and the Administrative Law Judge may make his/her decision by default without a hearing or further procedure.

§ 15.737-15   Reply to answer.

No reply to the respondent's answer shall be required, and new matter in the answer shall be deemed to be denied, but the Director may file a reply in his/her discretion or at the request of the Administrative Law Judge.

§ 15.737-16   Proof; variance; amendment of pleadings.

In the case of a variance between the allegations in a pleading and the evidence adduced in support of the pleading, the Administrative Law Judge may order or authorize amendment of the pleading to conform to the evidence: Provided, That the party who would otherwise be prejudiced by the amendment is given reasonable opportunity to meet the allegations of the pleading as amended; and the Administrative Law Judge shall make findings on any issue presented by the pleadings as so amended.
Provided,
That the party who would otherwise be prejudiced by the amendment is given reasonable opportunity to meet the allegations of the pleading as amended; and the Administrative Law Judge shall make findings on any issue presented by the pleadings as so amended.

§ 15.737-17   Motions and requests.

Motions and requests may be filed with the Director or with the Administrative Law Judge.

§ 15.737-18   Representation.

A respondent or proposed respondent may appear in person or he/she may be represented by counsel or other representative. The Director may be represented by an attorney or other employee of the Department.

§ 15.737-19   Administrative Law Judge.

(a) Appointment. An Administrative Law Judge appointed as provided by 5 U.S.C. 3105 (1966), shall conduct proceedings upon complaints for the administrative disciplinary proceedings under this part.
Appointment.
An Administrative Law Judge appointed as provided by 5 U.S.C. 3105 (1966), shall conduct proceedings upon complaints for the administrative disciplinary proceedings under this part.
(b) Power of Administrative Law Judge. Among other powers, the Administrative Law Judge shall have authority, in connection with any proceeding assigned or referred to him/her, to do the following:
Power of Administrative Law Judge.
Among other powers, the Administrative Law Judge shall have authority, in connection with any proceeding assigned or referred to him/her, to do the following:
(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) Make rulings upon motions and requests, which rulings may not be appealed from prior to the close of a hearing except, at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, in extraordinary circumstances;
(3) Determine the time and place of hearing and regulate its course and conduct;
(4) Adopt rules of procedure and modify the same from time to time as occasion requires for the orderly disposition of proceedings;
(5) Rule upon offers of proof, receive relevant evidence, and examine witnesses;
(6) Take or authorize the taking of depositions;
(7) Receive and consider oral or written argument on facts or law;
(8) Hold or provide for the holding of conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties;
(9) Assess the responsible party extraordinary costs attributable to the location of a hearing;
(10) Perform such acts and take such measures as are necessary or appropriate to the efficient conduct of any proceeding; and
(11) Make initial decisions.

§ 15.737-20   Hearings.

(a) In general. The Administrative Law Judge shall preside at the hearing on a complaint for the suspension of a former officer or employee from practice before the Department. Hearings shall be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses shall be taken under oath or affirmation. Hearings will be conducted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556.
In general.
The Administrative Law Judge shall preside at the hearing on a complaint for the suspension of a former officer or employee from practice before the Department. Hearings shall be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses shall be taken under oath or affirmation. Hearings will be conducted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556.
(b) Public access to hearings. Hearings will be closed unless an open hearing is requested by the respondent, except that if classified information or protected information of third parties (such as tax information) is likely to be adduced at the hearing, it will remain closed. A request for an open hearing must be included in the answer to be considered.
Public access to hearings.
Hearings will be closed unless an open hearing is requested by the respondent, except that if classified information or protected information of third parties (such as tax information) is likely to be adduced at the hearing, it will remain closed. A request for an open hearing must be included in the answer to be considered.
(c) Failure to appear. If either party to the proceeding fails to appear at the hearing, after due notice thereof has been sent to him/her, he/she shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the Administrative Law Judge may make a decision against the absent party by default.
Failure to appear.
If either party to the proceeding fails to appear at the hearing, after due notice thereof has been sent to him/her, he/she shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the Administrative Law Judge may make a decision against the absent party by default.

§ 15.737-21   Evidence.

(a) In general. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings on complaints for the suspension of a former officer or employee from practice before the Department. However, the Administrative Law Judge shall exclude evidence which is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.
In general.
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity are not controlling in hearings on complaints for the suspension of a former officer or employee from practice before the Department. However, the Administrative Law Judge shall exclude evidence which is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.
(b) Depositions. The deposition of any witness taken pursuant to § 15.737-22 of this part may be admitted.
Depositions.
The deposition of any witness taken pursuant to § 15.737-22 of this part may be admitted.
(c) Proof of documents. Official documents, records and papers of the Department shall be admissible in evidence without the production of an officer or employee to authenticate them. Any such documents, records, and papers may be evidenced by a copy attested or identified by an officer or employee of the Department.
Proof of documents.
Official documents, records and papers of the Department shall be admissible in evidence without the production of an officer or employee to authenticate them. Any such documents, records, and papers may be evidenced by a copy attested or identified by an officer or employee of the Department.
(d) Exhibits. If any document, record, or other paper is introduced in evidence as an exhibit, the Administrative Law Judge may authorize the withdrawal of the exhibit subject to any conditions which he/she deems proper.
Exhibits.
If any document, record, or other paper is introduced in evidence as an exhibit, the Administrative Law Judge may authorize the withdrawal of the exhibit subject to any conditions which he/she deems proper.
(e) Objections. Objections to evidence shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objection relied upon, and the record shall not include argument thereon, except as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. Rulings on such objections shall be a part of the record. No exception to the ruling is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties.
Objections.
Objections to evidence shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objection relied upon, and the record shall not include argument thereon, except as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. Rulings on such objections shall be a part of the record. No exception to the ruling is necessary to preserve the rights of the parties.

§ 15.737-22   Depositions.

Depositions for use at a hearing may, with the consent of the parties in writing or the written approval of the Administrative Law Judge, be taken by either the Director or the respondent or their duly authorized representatives. Depositions may be taken upon oral or written interrogatories, upon not less than 10 days' written notice to the other party before any officer duly authorized to administer an oath for general purposes or before an officer or employee of the Department who is authorized to administer an oath. Such notice shall state the names of the witnesses and the time and place where the depositions are to be taken. The requirement of 10 days' notice may be waived by the parties in writing, and depositions may then be taken from the persons and at the times and places mutually agreed to by the parties. When a deposition is taken upon written interrogatories, any cross-examination shall be upon written interrogatories. Copies of such written interrogatories shall be served upon the other party with the notice, and copies of any written cross-interrogation shall be mailed or delivered to the opposing party at least 5 days before the date of taking the depositions, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise. A party upon whose behalf a deposition is taken must file it with the Administrative Law Judge and serve one copy upon the opposing party. Expenses in the reporting of depositions shall be borne by the party at whose instance the deposition is taken.

§ 15.737-23   Transcript.

In cases where the hearing is stenographically reported by a Government contract reporter, copies of the transcript may be obtained from the reporter at rates not to exceed the maximum rates fixed by contract between the Government and the reporter or from the Department at actual cost of duplication. Where the hearing is stenographically reported by a regular employee of the Department, a copy thereof will be supplied to the respondent either without charge or upon payment of a reasonable fee. Copies of exhibits introducted at the hearing or at the taking of depositions will be supplied to the parties upon the payment of a reasonable fee (Sec. 501, Pub. L. 82-137, 65 Stat. 290 (31 U.S.C. 483a)).

§ 15.737-24   Proposed findings and conclusions.

Except in cases where the respondent has failed to answer the complaint or where a party has failed to appear at the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge prior to making his/her decision, shall afford the parties a reasonable opportunity to submit proposed findings and conclusions and supporting reasons therefor.

§ 15.737-25   Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.

As soon as practicable after the conclusion of a hearing and the receipt of any proposed findings and conclusions timely submitted by the parties, the Administrative Law Judge shall make the initial decision in the case. The decision shall include (a) a statement of findings and conclusions, as well as the reasons or basis therefor, upon all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record, and (b) an order of suspension from practice before the Department or separate statutory agency thereof or other appropriate disciplinary action, or an order of dismissal of the complaint. The Administrative Law Judge shall file the decision with the Director and shall transmit a copy thereof to the respondent or his/her attorney of record. In the absence of an appeal to the General Counsel or review of the decision upon motion of the General Counsel, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall without further proceedings become the decision of the General Counsel 30 days from the date of the Administrative Law Judge's decision.

§ 15.737-26   Appeal to the General Counsel.

Within 30 days from the date of the Administrative Law Judge's decision, either party may appeal to the General Counsel. The appeal shall be filed with the Director in duplicate and shall include exceptions to the decision of the Administrative Law Judge and supporting reasons for such exceptions. If an appeal is filed by the Director, he/she shall transmit a copy thereof to the respondent. Within 30 days after receipt of an appeal or copy thereof, the other party may file a reply brief in duplicate with the Director. If the reply brief is filed by the Director, he/she shall transmit a copy of it to the respondent. Upon the filing of an appeal and a reply brief, if any, the Director shall transmit the entire record to the General Counsel.

§ 15.737-27   Decision of the General Counsel.

On appeal from or review of the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge, the General Counsel will make the agency decision. In making his/her decision, the General Counsel will review the record or such portions thereof as may be cited by the parties to permit limiting of the issues. A copy of the General Counsel's decision shall be transmitted to the respondent by the Director.

§ 15.737-28   Notice of disciplinary action.

(a) Upon the issuance of a final order suspending a former officer or employee from practice before the Department or a separate statutory agency thereof, the Director shall give notice thereof to appropriate officers and employees of the Department. Officers and employees of the Department shall refuse to participate in any appearance by such former officer or employee or to accept any communication which constitutes the prohibited practice before the Department or separate statutory agency thereof during the period of suspension.
(b) The Director shall take other appropriate disciplinary action as may be required by the final order.

Subpart D—Other Departmental Proceedings


§ 15.737-29   Review by the General Counsel.

In my proceeding before the Department, if an initial decision is made with respect to the disqualification of a representative or attorney for a party on the grounds of 18 U.S.C. 207(a), (b) or (c), such decision may be appealed to the General Counsel, who will make the agency decision on the issue.

PART 16—REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT OF 1986

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3801-3812.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3801-3812.
[Source:52 FR 35071, Sept. 17, 1987, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
52 FR 35071, Sept. 17, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

§ 16.1   Basis and purpose.

(a) Basis. This part implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-509, sections 6101-6104, 100 Stat. 1874 (October 21, 1986), to be codified at 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812. 31 U.S.C. 3809 requires each authority head to promulgate regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the statute.
Basis.
This part implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-509, sections 6101-6104, 100 Stat. 1874 (October 21, 1986), to be codified at 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812. 31 U.S.C. 3809 requires each authority head to promulgate regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the statute.
(b) Purpose. This part
Purpose.
This part
(1) Establishes administrative procedures for imposing civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit, or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to authorities or to their agents, and
(2) Specifies the hearing and appeal rights of persons subject to allegations of liability for such penalties and assessments.

§ 16.2   Definitions.

ALJ means an Administrative Law Judge in the authority appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.
ALJ
means an Administrative Law Judge in the authority appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.
Authority means the Department of the Treasury.
Authority
means the Department of the Treasury.
Authority head means the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Management.
Authority head
means the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Management.
Benefit, when used in the context of false statements made with respect to a benefit, means anything of value including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee. This definition should be distinguished from the limitations on coverage of these regulations with respect to beneficiaries of specific benefit programs which are found in § 16.3(c) of this part.
Benefit,
when used in the context of false statements made with respect to a benefit, means anything of value including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee. This definition should be distinguished from the limitations on coverage of these regulations with respect to beneficiaries of specific benefit programs which are found in § 16.3(c) of this part.
Claim means any request, demand, or submission—
Claim
means any request, demand, or submission—
(a) Made to the authority for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits);
(b) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the authority or to a party to a contract with the authority—
(1) For property or services if the United States—
(i) Provided such property or services;
(ii) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or
(iii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or
(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States—
(i) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or
(ii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or
(c) Made to the authority which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money, except that such term does not include any claim made in any return of tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
Complaint means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 16.7 of this part.
Complaint
means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 16.7 of this part.
Defendant means any person alleged in a complaint under § 16.7 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 16.3.
Defendant
means any person alleged in a complaint under § 16.7 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 16.3.
Department means the Department of the Treasury.
Department
means the Department of the Treasury.
Government means the United States Government.
Government
means the United States Government.
Individual means a natural person.
Individual
means a natural person.
Initial decision means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 16.10 or § 16.37, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.
Initial decision
means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 16.10 or § 16.37, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.
Investigating official means any Inspector General, including any Special Inspector General, with investigatory authority over programs of the Department of the Treasury, as applicable.
Investigating official
means any Inspector General, including any Special Inspector General, with investigatory authority over programs of the Department of the Treasury, as applicable.
Knows or has reason to know, means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—
Knows or has reason to know,
means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—
(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or
(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.
Makes, wherever it appears, shall include the terms “presents,” “submits,” and “causes to be made, presented,” or “submitted.” As the context requires, making or made, shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.
Makes,
wherever it appears, shall include the terms “presents,” “submits,” and “causes to be made, presented,” or “submitted.” As the context requires,
making
or
made,
shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.
Person means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, private organization, State, political subdivision of a State, municipality, county, district, and Indian tribe, and includes the plural of that term.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, private organization, State, political subdivision of a State, municipality, county, district, and Indian tribe, and includes the plural of that term.
Presiding officer means an administrative law judge appointed in the authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the authority pursuant to section 3344 of such title.
Presiding officer
means an administrative law judge appointed in the authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the authority pursuant to section 3344 of such title.
Representative means an attorney designated in writing by a defendant to appear on his or her behalf in administrative hearings before the Department and to represent a defendant in all other legal matters regarding a complaint made pursuant to these regulations.
Representative
means an attorney designated in writing by a defendant to appear on his or her behalf in administrative hearings before the Department and to represent a defendant in all other legal matters regarding a complaint made pursuant to these regulations.
Reviewing official means the General Counsel, or another individual in the Legal Division of the Department designated by the General Counsel, who is—
Reviewing official
means the General Counsel, or another individual in the Legal Division of the Department designated by the General Counsel, who is—
(a) Serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16; and
(b) Is not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official; and
(c) Is not employed in the organization unit of the authority in which the investigating official is employed.
Statement means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—
Statement
means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—
(a) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or
(b) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for)—
(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or
(2) A grant, loan, or benefit from, the authority, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States Government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party of any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, except that such term does not include any claim made in any return of tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
[[52 FR 35071, Sept. 17, 1987, as amended at 87 FR 10309, Feb. 24, 2022]]

§ 16.3   Basis for civil penalties and assessments.

(a) Claims. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know—
Claims.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know—
(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(ii) Includes or is supported by any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that—
(A) Omits a material fact;
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and
(C) Is a statement in which the person making such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or
(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $9,956 (2025) for each such claim.
(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
(3) A claim shall be considered made to an authority, recipient, or party when such claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of such authority, recipient, or party.
(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty under these regulations regardless of whether such property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.
(5) If the government has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim.
(b) Statements. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a written statement that—
Statements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a written statement that—
(i) The person knows or has reason to know—
(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such statement; and
(ii) Includes or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the content of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $9,956 (2025) for each such statement.
(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.
(3) A statement shall be considered made to an authority when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of such authority.
(c)(1) In the case of any claim or statement made by any individual relating to any of the benefits listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, received by such individual, such individual may be held liable for penalties and assessments under this section only if such claim or statement is made by such individual in making application for such benefits with respect to such individual's eligibility to receive such benefits.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph, the term benefits means—
benefits
means—
(i) Benefits under the food stamp program (as defined in section 3(h) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977);
(ii) Benefits under Chapters 11, 13, 15, 17, and 21 of Title 38;
(iii) Benefits under the Black Lung Benefits Act;
(iv) Any authority or other benefit under the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974;
(v) Benefits under the National School Lunch Act;
(vi) Benefits under any housing assistance program for lower income families or elderly or handicapped persons which is administered by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development or the Secretary of Agriculture;
(vii) Benefits under the special supplemental food program for women, infants, and children established under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966;
(viii) Benefits under part A of the Energy Conservation in Existing Buildings Act of 1976;
(ix) Benefits under the supplemental security income program under title XVI of the Social Security Act;
(x) Old age, survivors, and disability insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act;
(xi) Benefits under title XVIII of the Social Security Act;
(xii) Aid to families with dependent children under a State plan approved under section 402(a) of the Social Security Act;
(xiii) Medical assistance under a State plan approved under section 1902(a) of the Social Security Act;
(xiv) Benefits under title XX of the Social Security Act;
(xv) Benefits under section 336 of the Older Americans Act; or
(xvi) Benefits under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, which are intended for the personal use of the individual who receives the benefits or for a member of the individual's family.
(d) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.
(f) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section, and on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.
[[52 FR 35071, Sept. 17, 1987, as amended at 86 FR 12539, Mar. 4, 2021; 88 FR 16886, Mar. 21, 2023; 89 FR 4819, Jan. 25, 2024; 90 FR 25484, June 17, 2025]]

§ 16.4   Investigation.

(a) If an investigating official concludes that a subpoena pursuant to the authority conferred by 31 U.S.C. 3804(a) is warranted—
(1) The subpoena so issued shall notify the person to whom it is addressed of the authority under which the subpoena is issued and shall identify the information, records, or documents sought;
(2) The investigating official may designate a person to act on his behalf to receive the information, records, or documents sought; and
(3) The person receiving such subpoena shall be required to tender to the investigating official or to the person designated to receive the information, records, or documents, a certification that the information, records, or documents sought have been produced, or that such information, records, or documents are not available and the reasons therefor, or that such information, records, or documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified legal privilege.
(b) If the investigating official concludes that an action under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act may be warranted, the investigating official shall report the findings and conclusions of such investigation to the reviewing official.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit the investigating official's discretion to refer allegations directly to the Department of Justice for suit under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3731, or for other civil relief, or to preclude or limit such official's discretion to defer or postpone a report or referral to avoid interference with an investigation into criminal misconduct or a criminal prosecution.
(d) Nothing in this section modifies any responsibility of the investigating official to report violations of criminal law to the Attorney General.

§ 16.5   Review by the reviewing official.

(a) If, based on the report of the investigating official under § 16.4(b), the reviewing official determines that there is adequate evidence to believe that a person is liable under § 16.3 of this part, the reviewing official shall transmit to the Attorney General a written notice of the reviewing official's intention to issue a complaint under § 16.7.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) A statement of the reviewing official's reasons for issuing a complaint;
(2) A statement specifying the evidence that supports the allegations of liability;
(3) A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based;
(4) An estimate of the amount of money or the value, if any, of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in violation of § 16.3 of this part; or, if no monetary value can be put on the property, service or benefit, a statement regarding the non-monetary consequences to the agency of a false statement.
(5) A statement of any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
(6) A statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments. Such a statement may be based upon information then known or an absence of any information indicating that the person may be unable to pay such an amount.

§ 16.6   Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.

(a) The reviewing official may issue a complaint under § 16.7 only if—
(1) The Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in a written statement described in 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(l), and
(2) In the case of allegations of liability under § 16.3(a) with respect to a claim, the reviewing official determines that, with respect to such claim or a group of related claims submitted at the same time such claim is submitted (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested in violation of § 16.3(a) does not exceed $150,000.
(b) For the purposes of this section, a related group of claims submitted at the same time shall include only those claims arising from the same transaction (e.g., grant, loan, application, or contract) that are submitted simultaneously as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the reviewing official's authority to join in a single complaint against a person, claims that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested, as long as the total amount for each claim does not exceed $150,000.

§ 16.7   Complaint.

(a) On or after the date the Attorney General or his designee approves the issuance of a complaint in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), the reviewing official may serve a complaint on the defendant, as provided in § 16.8.
(b) The complaint shall state—
(1) The allegations of liability against the defendant, including the statutory basis for liability, an identification of the claims or statements that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons why liability allegedly arises from such claims or statements;
(2) The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which the defendant may be held liable;
(3) Instructions for filing an answer to request a hearing, including a specific statement of the defendant's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to be represented by an attorney;
(4) That the defendant has a right to review and obtain certain information pursuant to Section 16.20 herein; and
(5) That failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in the imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessments without right to appeal.
(c) At the same time the reviewing official serves the complaint on the defendant(s), he or she shall serve the defendant with a copy of these regulations.

§ 16.8   Service of complaint.

(a) Service of a complaint must be made by a certified or registered mail or by delivery in any manner authorized by Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(b) Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service, may be made by—
(1) Affidavit of the individual making service;
(2) An acknowledged United States Postal Service return receipt card; or
(3) Written acknowledgement of the defendant or his representative.

§ 16.9   Answer.

(a) The defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer with the reviewing official within 30 days of service of the complaint. An answer shall be deemed to be a request for hearing.
(b) In the answer, the defendant—
(1) Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint;
(2) Shall state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
(3) May state any reasons why the defendant contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the statutory maximum; and
(4) Shall state whether the defendant has authorized an attorney to act as defendant's representative, and shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the representative.

§ 16.10   Default upon failure to file an answer.

(a) If the defendant does not file an answer within the time prescribed in § 16.9(a), the reviewing official may refer the complaint to the ALJ for initial decision.
(b) Upon the referral of the complaint, the ALJ shall promptly serve on defendant in the manner prescribed in § 16.8, a notice that an initial decision will be issued under this section.
(c) If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, the ALJ shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true and, if such facts eatablish liability under § 16.3, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer, the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (c) of this section, and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
(e) If, before such an initial decision becomes final, the defendant files a motion with the ALJ, and serves a copy on the agency, seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the defendant from filing a timely answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending the ALJ's decision on the motion. The ALJ shall permit the agency a reasonable amount of time, not less than 15 calendar days, to respond to the defendant's motion.
(f) If, on such motion, the defendant can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ shall withdraw the initial decision, if such a decision has been issued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, and shall grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
(g) A decision of the ALJ denying a defendant's motion under paragraph (e) of this section is not subject to reconsideration under § 16.38.
(h) The defendant may appeal to the authority head the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head within 15 days after the ALJ denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the initial decision until the authority head decides the issue.
(i) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.
(j) The authority head shall decide expeditiously, and based solely on the record before the ALJ, whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer.
(k) If the authority head decides that extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the authority head shall remand the case to the ALJ with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to file an answer.
(l) If the authority head decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the authority head shall reinstate the initial decision of the ALJ, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the authority head issues such decision.

§ 16.11   Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.

Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the ALJ.

§ 16.12   Notice of hearing.

(a) When the ALJ receives the complaint and answer, the ALJ shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant and the agency representative in the manner prescribed by § 16.8.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The matters of fact and law to be asserted;
(4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(5) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the representatives of the Government and of the defendant, if any; and
(6) Such other matters as the ALJ deems appropriate.

§ 16.13   Parties to the hearing.

(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and the authority.
(b) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff under the False Claims Act may participate in these proceedings to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act.

§ 16.14   Separation of functions.

(a) The investigating official, the reviewing official, and any employee or agent of the authority who takes part in investigating, preparing, or presenting a particular case may not, in such case or a factually related case—
(1) Participate in the hearing as the ALJ;
(2) Participate or advise in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the authority head, except as a witness or a representative in public proceedings; or
(3) Make the collection of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(b) The ALJ shall not be responsible to, or subject to the supervision or direction of the investigating official or the reviewing official.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the representative for the Government may be an attorney employed anywhere in the Legal Division of the Department, or an attorney employed in the offices of either the investigating official or the reviewing official; however the representative of the Government may not participate or advise in the review of the initial decision by the authority head.

§ 16.15   Ex parte contacts.

No party or person (except employees of the ALJ's office) shall communicate in any way with the ALJ on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.

§ 16.16   Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.

(a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
(b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or an ALJ. Such motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.
(c) Such motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections shall be deemed waived.
(d) Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's assertion that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.
(e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the ALJ shall proceed no further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with paragrpah (f) of this section.
(f)(1) If the ALJ determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the agency shall seek to have the case promptly reassigned to another ALJ.
(3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the authority head may determine the matter only as part of his or her review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.

§ 16.17   Rights of parties.

Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may—
(a) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by an attorney;
(b) Participate in any conference held by the ALJ;
(c) Conduct discovery;
(d) Agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(e) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(f) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(g) Present oral arguments at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and
(h) Submit written beliefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.

§ 16.18   Authority of the ALJ.

(a) The ALJ shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The ALJ has the authority to—
(1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at depositions or at hearings;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(13) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
(14) Exercise such other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the ALJ under this part.
(c) The ALJ does not have the authority to make any determinations regarding the validity of Federal statutes or regulations, or Departmental orders, Directives, or other published rules.

§ 16.19   Prehearing conferences.

(a) The ALJ may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
(b) Upon the motion of any party, the ALJ shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
(c) The ALJ may use prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations, admissions of fact or the content and authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objection of other parties) and written argument;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery;
(9) The time and place for the hearing; and
(10) Such other matters as may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
(d) The ALJ may issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the ALJ at a prehearing conference.

§ 16.20   Disclosure of documents.

(a) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other material that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of the investigating official under § 16.4(b) are based unless such documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. The Department shall schedule such review at a time and place convenient to it. Upon payment of fees for duplication, the defendant may obtain copies of such documents.
(b) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant also may obtian a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint, even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed.
(c) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official as described in § 16.5 is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(d) The defendant may file a motion to compel disclosure of the documents subject to the provisions of this section. Such a motion may only be filed with the ALJ following the filing of an answer pursuant to § 16.9.

§ 16.21   Discovery.

(a) The following types of discovery are authorized:
(1) Requests for production of documents for inspection and copying;
(2) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or of the truth of any relevant fact;
(3) Written interrogatories; and
(4) Depositions.
(b) For the purposes of this section and §§ 16.22 and 16.23, the term “documents” includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data, either paper or electronic, and other documentary evidence. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document.
(c) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ shall regulate the timing of discovery.
(d) Motions for discovery. (1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the ALJ if it is not made available by another party on an informal basis. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition, and a description of the efforts which have been made by the party to obtain discovery.
Motions for discovery.
(1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the ALJ if it is not made available by another party on an informal basis. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition, and a description of the efforts which have been made by the party to obtain discovery.
(2) Within ten days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided in § 16.24.
(3) The ALJ may grant a motion for discovery only if he or she finds that the discovery sought—
(i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues;
(ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;
(iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and
(iv) Does not seek privileged information.
(4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.
(5) The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 16.24.
(e) Depositions. (1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held.
Depositions.
(1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held.
(2) The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in § 16.8.
(3) The deponent may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order within ten days of service.
(4) The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it shall make available to all other parties for inspection and copying.
(f) Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery.

§ 16.22   Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.

(a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the ALJ, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with § 16.33(b). At the time the above documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the ALJ, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
(b) If a party objects, the ALJ shall not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above unless the ALJ finds good cause and that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless another party objects within the time set by the ALJ, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.

§ 16.23   Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.

(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to bring with him or her.
(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in § 16.8. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.
(f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within ten days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten days after service.

§ 16.24   Protective order.

(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the ALJ;
(6) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
(7) That a deposition after being sealed be opened only by order of the ALJ;
(8) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation, proceeding, or other administrative investigation not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; or
(9) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the ALJ.

§ 16.25   Fees.

The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the authority, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.

§ 16.26   Form, filing and service of papers.

(a) Form. (1) Documents filed with the ALJ shall include an original and two copies.
Form.
(1) Documents filed with the ALJ shall include an original and two copies.
(2) Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the ALJ, and a designation of the paper (e.g., motion to quash subpoena).
(3) Every pleading and paper shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or the person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or his or her representative.
(4) Papers are considered filed when they are mailed. Date of mailing may be etablished by a certificate from the party or its representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.
(b) Service. A party filing a document with the ALJ shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than the complaint or notice of hearing shall be made by delivering or mailing a copy to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon such representative in lieu of the actual party.
Service.
A party filing a document with the ALJ shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than the complaint or notice of hearing shall be made by delivering or mailing a copy to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by an attorney, service shall be made upon such representative in lieu of the actual party.
(c) Proof of service. A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.

§ 16.27   Computation of time.

(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which event it includes the next business day.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal Government shall be excluded from the computation. When the period of time allowed is more than seven days, all intervening calendar days are included in the computation.
(c) Where a document has been served or issued by mail, an additional five days will be added to the time permitted for any response.

§ 16.28   Motions.

(a) Any application to the ALJ for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the ALJ and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The ALJ may require that oral motions be reduced to writing.
(c) Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the ALJ, any party may file a response to such motion.
(d) The ALJ may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.
(e) The ALJ shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.

§ 16.29   Sanctions.

(a) The ALJ may sanction a person, including any party or representative for—
(1) Failing to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the ALJ may—
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;
(3) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon testimony relating to the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d) If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the ALJ may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
(e) The ALJ may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief or other document which is not filed in a timely fashion.

§ 16.30   The hearing and burden of proof.

(a) The ALJ shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 16.3 and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
(b) The authority shall have the burden of proving defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The defendant shall have the burden of proving any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause shown.

§ 16.31   Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.

(a) In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessements, the ALJ and upon appeal, the authority head, should evaluate any circumstances that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose. Because of the intangible costs of fraud, the expense of investigating such conduct, and the need to deter others who might be similarly tempted, double damages and a significant civil penalty ordinarily should be imposed.
(b) Although not exhaustive, the following factors are among those that may influence the ALJ and the authority head in determining the amount of penalties and assessments to impose with respect to the misconduct (i.e., the false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements) charged in the complaint:
i.e.
, the false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements) charged in the complaint:
(1) The number of false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements;
(2) The time period over which such claims or statements were made;
(3) The degree of the defendant's culpability with respect to the misconduct;
(4) The amount of money or the value of the property, services, or benefit falsely claimed;
(5) The value of the Government's actual loss as a result of the misconduct, including foreseeable consequential damages and the costs of investigation;
(6) The relationship of the amount imposed as civil penalties to the amount of the Government's loss;
(7) The potential or actual impact of the misconduct upon national defense, public health or safety, or public confidence in the management of Government programs and operations;
(8) Whether the defendant has engaged in a pattern of the same or similar misconduct;
(9) Whether the defendant attempted to conceal the misconduct;
(10) The degree to which the defendant has involved others in the misconduct or in concealing it;
(11) Where the misconduct of employees or agents is imputed to the defendant, the extent to which the defendant's practices fostered or attempted to preclude such misconduct;
(12) Whether the defendant cooperated in or obstructed an investigation of the misconduct;
(13) Whether the defendant assisted in identifying and prosecuting other wrongdoers;
(14) The complexity of the program or transaction, and the degree of the defendant's sophistication with respect to it, including the extent of the defendant's prior participation in the program or in similar transactions;
(15) Whether the defendant has been found, in any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding to have engaged in similar misconduct or to have dealt dishonestly with the Government of the United States or of a State, directly or indirectly; and
(16) The need to deter the defendant and others from engaging in the same or similar misconduct.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ALJ or the authority head from considering any other factors that in any given case may mitigate or aggravate the offense for which penalties and assessments are imposed.

§ 16.32   Location of hearing.

(a) The hearing may be held—
(1) In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;
(2) In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement in issue was made; or
(3) In such other place as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the ALJ.
(b) Each party shall have the opportunity to present argument with respect to the location of the hearing.
(c) The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the ALJ.

§ 16.33   Witnesses.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. Any such written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in § 16.22(a).
(c) The ALJ shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to—
(1) Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth,
(2) Avoid needless consumption of time, and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The ALJ shall permit the parties to conduct such cross examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(e) At the discretion of the ALJ, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination. To the extent permited by the ALJ, cross-examination on matters outside the scope of direct examination shall be conducted in the manner of direct examination and may proceed by leading questions only if the witness is a hostile witness, an adverse party, or a witness identified with an adverse party.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the ALJ shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of—
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party designated by the party's representative; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.

§ 16.34   Evidence.

(a) The ALJ shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided herein, the ALJ shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the ALJ may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate, e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.
(c) The ALJ shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or incompetent evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.
(f) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(g) The ALJ shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 16.24.

§ 16.35   The record.

(a) The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the ALJ at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
(b) The transcript of testimony, exhibits and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the ALJ and the authority head.
(c) The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 16.24.

§ 16.36   Post-hearing briefs.

The ALJ may require the parties to file post-hearing briefs. The ALJ shall fix the time for filing such briefs, not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The ALJ may permit the parties to file reply briefs.

§ 16.37   Initial decision.

(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision, based solely on the record, which shall contain findings of fact, conclusion of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portions thereof, violate § 16.3;
(2) If the person is liable for penalties of assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments considering any mitigating or aggravating factors that he or she finds in the case, such as those described in § 16.31.
(c) The ALJ shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired. The ALJ shall at the same time serve all defendants with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the ALJ or a notice of appeal with the authority head. If the ALJ fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(d) Unless the initial decision of the ALJ is timely appealed to the authority head, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the ALJ.

§ 16.38   Reconsideration of initial decision.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be five days from the date of mailing in the absence of contrary proof.
(b) Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.
(c) Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the ALJ.
(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.
(e) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
(f) When a motion for reconsideration is made, the time periods for appeal to the authority head contained in § 16.38, and for finality of the initial decision in § 16.36(d), shall begin on the date the ALJ issues the denial of the motion for reconsideration or a revised initial decision, as appropriate.

§ 16.39   Appeal to authority head.

(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the authority head by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head in accordance with this section.
(b)(1) No notice of appeal may be filed until the time period for filing a motion for reconsideration under § 16.38 has expired.
(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal must be filed within 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.
(3) If no motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal must be filed within 30 days after the ALJ issues the initial decision.
(4) The authority head may extend the initial 30 days period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the authority head a request for extension within the initial 30 days period and shows good cause.
(c) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head, the ALJ shall forward the notice of appeal and record of the proceeding to the authority head.
(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.
(e) The representative for the agency may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.
(f) There is no right to appear personally before the authority head.
(g) There is right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.
(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the authority head shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the ALJ unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the authority head, prior to the issuance of the authority head's decision that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at the hearing, the authority head shall remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of such additional evidence.
(j) The authority head may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment, determined by the ALJ in any initial decision.
(k) The authority head shall promptly serve each party to the appeal to the ALJ with a copy of the decision of the authority head. At the same time the authority head shall serve the defendant with a statement describing the defendant's right to seek judicial review.
(l) Unless a petition for judicial review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the authority head serves the defendant with a copy of the authority head's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under § 16.3 is final and is not subject to judicial review.

§ 16.40   Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.

If at any time the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the authority head a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this part with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, the authority head shall stay the process immediately. In such a case, the authority head may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.

§ 16.41   Stay pending appeal.

(a) An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the authority head.
(b) No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the authority head.

§ 16.42   Judicial review.

Section 3805 of title 31, United States Code, authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the authority head imposing penalties or assessments under this part and specifies the procedures for such review.

§ 16.43   Collection of civil penalties and assessments.

Sections 3806 and 3808(b) of title 31, United States Code, authorize actions for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for such actions.

§ 16.44   Right to administrative offset.

The amount of any penalty or assessment which has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under § 16.42 or § 16.43, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under § 16.46, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under this subsection against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes, then or later owing by the United States to the defendant.

§ 16.45   Deposit in Treasury of United States.

All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(g).

§ 16.46   Compromise or settlement.

(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.
(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision.
(c) The authority head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under § 16.42 or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties and assessments under § 16.43.
(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under § 16.42 or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.
(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing and signed by all parties and their representatives.

§ 16.47   Limitations.

(a) The notice of hearing with respect to a claim or statement must be served in the manner specified in § 16.8 within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made.
(b) If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, service of a notice under § 16.10(b) shall be deemed a notice of hearing for purposes of this section.
(c) The time limits of this statute of limitations may be extended by agreement of the parties.

PART 17—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

[Authority:29 U.S.C. 794.]
Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.
[Source:56 FR 40788, Aug. 16, 1991, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
56 FR 40788, Aug. 16, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

§ 17.101   Purpose.

The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (“section 504”) to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.

§ 17.102   Application.

This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.

§ 17.103   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the term—
(a) Agency means the Department of the Treasury.
Agency
means the Department of the Treasury.
(b) Assistant Attorney General means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
(c) Auxiliary aids means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunications devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials and other similar services and devices.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunications devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials and other similar services and devices.
(d) Complete complaint means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address, and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes of individuals with handicaps shall also identify (where possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address, and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes of individuals with handicaps shall also identify (where possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
(e) Facility means all or any portion of a building, structure, equipment, road, walk, parking lot, rolling stock, or other conveyance, or other real or personal property.
Facility
means all or any portion of a building, structure, equipment, road, walk, parking lot, rolling stock, or other conveyance, or other real or personal property.
(f) Individual with handicaps means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the individual's major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase: (1) Physical or mental impairment includes: (i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs, cardiovascular; reproductive, digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or (ii) any mental or psychological disorder such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term physical or mental impairment includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction and alcoholism.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the individual's major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase: (1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes: (i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs, cardiovascular; reproductive, digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or (ii) any mental or psychological disorder such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2) Major life activities includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3) Has a record of such an impairment means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more of the individual's major life activities.
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more of the individual's major life activities.
(4) Is regarded as having an impairment means—
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in subparagraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
(g) Qualified individual with handicaps means (1) With respect to an agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of the program; and
Qualified individual with handicaps
means (1) With respect to an agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of the program; and
(2) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(3) For purposes of employment, “qualified handicapped person” is defined in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 17.140.
(h) Section 504 means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended. As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended. As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.

§§ 17.104-17.109   [Reserved]


§ 17.110   Self-evaluation.

(a) The agency shall, by two years after the effective date of this part, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, to determine if they meet the requirements of this part. To the extent modification of any such policy and practice is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process.
(c) The agency shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made; and
(3) A list of participants in the self-evaluation process.

§ 17.111   Notice.

The agency shall make available to all Treasury employees, and to all interested persons, as appropriate, information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such a manner as is necessary to apprise them of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this part.

§§ 17.112-17.129   [Reserved]


§ 17.130   General prohibitions against discrimination.

(a) No qualified individual with handicaps in the United States, shall, by reason of his or her handicap, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) For purposes of this part, aids, benefits, and services, to be equally effective, are not required to produce the identical result or level of achievement for individuals with handicaps and for nonhandicapped persons, but must afford individuals with handicaps equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement in the most integrated setting appropriate to the individual's needs.
(3) Even if the agency is permitted, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, to operate a separate or different program for individuals with handicaps or for any class of individuals with handicaps, the agency must permit any qualified individual with handicaps who wishes to participate in the program that is not separate or different to do so.
(4) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(5) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(6) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(7) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.

§§ 17.131-17.139   [Reserved]


§ 17.140   Employment.

No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the Department. The definitions, requirements and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment of federally conducted programs or activities.

§§ 17.141-17.148   [Reserved]


§ 17.149   Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.

Except as otherwise provided in § 17.150, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.

§ 17.150   Program accessibility; Existing facilities.

(a) General. The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not require the agency—
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not require the agency—
(1) To make structural alterations in each of its existing facilities in order to make them accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section; or
(2) To take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with the § 17.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b) Methods. The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
Methods.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(c) Time period for compliance. The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this part except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made within three years of the effective date of this part, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this part except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made within three years of the effective date of this part, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d) Transition plan. In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop within six months of the effective date of this part, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both telephonic and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall at a minimum—
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop within six months of the effective date of this part, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both telephonic and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the physical accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.

§ 17.151   Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.

Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 through 101-19.607 apply to buildings covered by this section.

§§ 17.152-17.159   [Reserved]


§ 17.160   Communications.

(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to effectively communicate with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature to applicants or participants in programs.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, the agency shall use telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall make available to interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall post notices at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to an accessible facility, or to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens.
In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 17.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maxium extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.

§§ 17.161-17.169   [Reserved]


§ 17.170   Compliance procedures.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) All other complaints alleging violations of section 504 may be sent to the Director, Office of Equal Opportunity Program, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Departmental Finance and Management shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section.
(d)(1) Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by him or herself or by his or her authorized representative file a complaint. Any person who believes that any specific class of persons has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part and who is a member of that class or the authorized representative of a member of that class may file a complaint.
(2) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints over which it has jurisdiction.
(3) All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receive a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.
(g)(1) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint over which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(ii) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(iii) A notice of the right to appeal.
(2) Agency employees are required to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are required to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours.
(3) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and made part of the complaint file, with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant. The written agreement shall describe the subject matter of the complaint and any corrective action to which the parties have agreed.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 60 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 17.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Director, Human Resources Directorate, or his or her designee, who will issue the final agency decision which may include appropriate corrective action to be taken by the agency.
(j) The agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 30 days of the receipt of the appeal. If the agency determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 30 days from the date it received the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended for an individual case when the Assistant Secretary for Departmental Finance and Management determines that there is good cause, based on the particular circumstances of that case, for the extension.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies or may contract with a nongovernment investigator to perform the investigation, but the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.

§§ 17.171-17.999   [Reserved]


PART 18—OFFICIALS DESIGNATED TO PERFORM THE FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF CERTAIN OFFICES IN CASE OF ABSENCE, DISABILITY, OR VACANCY

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321.
[Source:64 FR 62112, Nov. 16, 1999, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
64 FR 62112, Nov. 16, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

§ 18.1   Designation of First Assistants.

Except as provided in § 18.2, every office within the Department of the Treasury (including its bureaus) to which appointment is required to be made by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate (“PAS Office”) may have a First Assistant within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 3345-3349d.
(a) Where there is a position of principal deputy to the PAS Office, the principal deputy shall be the First Assistant.
(b) Where there is only one deputy position to the PAS Office, the official in that position shall be the First Assistant.
(c) Where neither paragraph (a) nor (b) of this section is applicable to the PAS Office, the Secretary of the Treasury may designate in writing the First Assistant.

§ 18.2   Exceptions.

(a) Section 18.1 shall not apply:
(1) When a statute which meets the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 3347(a) prescribes another means for authorizing an officer or employee to perform the functions and duties of a PAS Office in the Department temporarily in an acting capacity; and
(2) To the office of a member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board.
(b) The Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury shall determine any arrangements for the temporary performance of the functions and duties of the Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury when that office is vacant.
(c) The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration shall determine any arrangements for the temporary performance of the functions and duties of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration when that office is vacant.

PART 19—GOVERNMENTWIDE DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION (NONPROCUREMENT)

[Authority:Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799); E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235).]
Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799); E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189); E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235).
[Source:68 FR 66544, 66605, 66607, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
68 FR 66544, 66605, 66607, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

§ 19.25   How is this part organized?

(a) This part is subdivided into ten subparts. Each subpart contains information related to a broad topic or specific audience with special responsibilities, as shown in the following table:
In subpart . . .
You will find provisions related to . . .
A
general information about this rule.
B
the types of Department of the Treasury transactions that are covered by the Governmentwide nonprocurement suspension and debarment system.
C
the responsibilities of persons who participate in covered transactions.
D
the responsibilities of Department of the Treasury officials who are authorized to enter into covered transactions.
E
the responsibilities of Federal agencies for the
Excluded Parties List System
(Disseminated by the General Services Administration).
F
the general principles governing suspension, debarment, voluntary exclusion and settlement.
G
suspension actions.
H
debarment actions.
I
definitions of terms used in this part.
J
[Reserved]
(b) The following table shows which subparts may be of special interest to you, depending on who you are:
If you are . . .
See subpart(s) . . .
(1) a participant or principal in a nonprocurement transaction
A, B, C, and I.
(2) a respondent in a suspension action
A, B, F, G and I.
(3) a respondent in a debarment action
A, B, F, H and I.
(4) a suspending official
A, B, D, E, F, G and I.
(5) a debarring official
A, B, D, E, F, H and I.
(6) a (n) Department of the Treasury official authorized to enter into a covered transaction
A, B, D, E and I.
(7) Reserved
J.

§ 19.50   How is this part written?

(a) This part uses a “plain language” format to make it easier for the general public and business community to use. The section headings and text, often in the form of questions and answers, must be read together.
(b) Pronouns used within this part, such as “I” and “you,” change from subpart to subpart depending on the audience being addressed. The pronoun “we” always is the Department of the Treasury.
(c) The “Covered Transactions” diagram in the appendix to this part shows the levels or “tiers” at which the Department of the Treasury enforces an exclusion under this part.

§ 19.75   Do terms in this part have special meanings?

This part uses terms throughout the text that have special meaning. Those terms are defined in subpart I of this part. For example, three important terms are—
(a) Exclusion or excluded, which refers only to discretionary actions taken by a suspending or debarring official under this part or the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4);
Exclusion or excluded,
which refers only to discretionary actions taken by a suspending or debarring official under this part or the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4);
(b) Disqualification or disqualified, which refers to prohibitions under specific statutes, executive orders (other than Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689), or other authorities. Disqualifications frequently are not subject to the discretion of an agency official, may have a different scope than exclusions, or have special conditions that apply to the disqualification; and
Disqualification or disqualified,
which refers to prohibitions under specific statutes, executive orders (other than Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689), or other authorities. Disqualifications frequently are not subject to the discretion of an agency official, may have a different scope than exclusions, or have special conditions that apply to the disqualification; and
(c) Ineligibility or ineligible, which generally refers to a person who is either excluded or disqualified.
Ineligibility or ineligible,
which generally refers to a person who is either excluded or disqualified.

Subpart A—General


§ 19.100   What does this part do?

This part adopts a governmentwide system of debarment and suspension for Department of the Treasury nonprocurement activities. It also provides for reciprocal exclusion of persons who have been excluded under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and provides for the consolidated listing of all persons who are excluded, or disqualified by statute, executive order, or other legal authority. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).

§ 19.105   Does this part apply to me?

Portions of this part (see table at § 19.25(b)) apply to you if you are a(n)—
(a) Person who has been, is, or may reasonably be expected to be, a participant or principal in a covered transaction;
(b) Respondent (a person against whom the Department of the Treasury has initiated a debarment or suspension action);
(c) Department of the Treasury debarring or suspending official; or
(d) Department of the Treasury official who is authorized to enter into covered transactions with non-Federal parties.

§ 19.110   What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?

(a) To protect the public interest, the Federal Government ensures the integrity of Federal programs by conducting business only with responsible persons.
(b) A Federal agency uses the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system to exclude from Federal programs persons who are not presently responsible.
(c) An exclusion is a serious action that a Federal agency may take only to protect the public interest. A Federal agency may not exclude a person or commodity for the purposes of punishment.

§ 19.115   How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?

With the exceptions stated in §§ 19.120, 19.315, and 19.420, a person who is excluded by the Department of the Treasury or any other Federal agency may not:
(a) Be a participant in a(n) Department of the Treasury transaction that is a covered transaction under subpart B of this part;
(b) Be a participant in a transaction of any other Federal agency that is a covered transaction under that agency's regulation for debarment and suspension; or
(c) Act as a principal of a person participating in one of those covered transactions.

§ 19.120   May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?

(a) The Secretary of the Treasury may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the Secretary of the Treasury grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the governmentwide policy in Executive Order 12549.
(b) An exception granted by one agency for an excluded person does not extend to the covered transactions of another agency.

§ 19.125   Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?

If any Federal agency excludes a person under its nonprocurement common rule on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in Federal procurement transactions under the FAR. Therefore, an exclusion under this part has reciprocal effect in Federal procurement transactions.

§ 19.130   Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?

If any Federal agency excludes a person under the FAR on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in nonprocurement covered transactions under this part. Therefore, an exclusion under the FAR has reciprocal effect in Federal nonprocurement transactions.

§ 19.135   May the Department of the Treasury exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?

Given a cause that justifies an exclusion under this part, we may exclude any person who has been involved, is currently involved, or may reasonably be expected to be involved in a covered transaction.

§ 19.140   How do I know if a person is excluded?

Check the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS) to determine whether a person is excluded. The General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the EPLS and makes it available, as detailed in subpart E of this part. When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the EPLS.
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
to determine whether a person is excluded. The General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS
and makes it available, as detailed in subpart E of this part. When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.

§ 19.145   Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?

Except if provided for in subpart J of this part, this part—
(a) Addresses disqualified persons only to—
(1) Provide for their inclusion in the EPLS; and
EPLS;
and
(2) State responsibilities of Federal agencies and participants to check for disqualified persons before entering into covered transactions.
(b) Does not specify the—
(1) Department of the Treasury transactions for which a disqualified person is ineligible. Those transactions vary on a case-by-case basis, because they depend on the language of the specific statute, Executive order, or regulation that caused the disqualification;
(2) Entities to which the disqualification applies; or
(3) Process that the agency uses to disqualify a person. Unlike exclusion, disqualification is frequently not a discretionary action that a Federal agency takes.

Subpart B—Covered Transactions


§ 19.200   What is a covered transaction?

A covered transaction is a nonprocurement or procurement transaction that is subject to the prohibitions of this part. It may be a transaction at—
(a) The primary tier, between a Federal agency and a person (see appendix to this part); or
(b) A lower tier, between a participant in a covered transaction and another person.

§ 19.205   Why is it important if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?

The importance of a covered transaction depends upon who you are.
(a) As a participant in the transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in subpart C of this part. Those include responsibilities to the person or Federal agency at the next higher tier from whom you received the transaction, if any. They also include responsibilities if you subsequently enter into other covered transactions with persons at the next lower tier.
(b) As a Federal official who enters into a primary tier transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in subpart D of this part.
(c) As an excluded person, you may not be a participant or principal in the transaction unless—
(1) The person who entered into the transaction with you allows you to continue your involvement in a transaction that predates your exclusion, as permitted under § 19.310 or § 19.415; or
(2) A(n) Department of the Treasury official obtains an exception from the Secretary of the Treasury to allow you to be involved in the transaction, as permitted under § 19.120.

§ 19.210   Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?

All nonprocurement transactions, as defined in § 19.970, are covered transactions unless listed in § 19.215. (See appendix to this part.)

§ 19.215   Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?

The following types of nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions:
(a) A direct award to—
(1) A foreign government or foreign governmental entity;
(2) A public international organization;
(3) An entity owned (in whole or in part) or controlled by a foreign government; or
(4) Any other entity consisting wholly or partially of one or more foreign governments or foreign governmental entities.
(b) A benefit to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted). For example, if a person receives social security benefits under the Supplemental Security Income provisions of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1301 et seq., those benefits are not covered transactions and, therefore, are not affected if the person is excluded.
et seq.,
those benefits are not covered transactions and, therefore, are not affected if the person is excluded.
(c) Federal employment.
(d) A transaction that the Department of the Treasury needs to respond to a national or agency-recognized emergency or disaster.
(e) A permit, license, certificate, or similar instrument issued as a means to regulate public health, safety, or the environment, unless the Department of the Treasury specifically designates it to be a covered transaction.
(f) An incidental benefit that results from ordinary governmental operations.
(g) Any other transaction if the application of an exclusion to the transaction is prohibited by law.

§ 19.220   Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?

(a) Covered transactions under this part—
(1) Do not include any procurement contracts awarded directly by a Federal agency; but
(2) Do include some procurement contracts awarded by non-Federal participants in nonprocurement covered transactions (see appendix to this part).
(b) Specifically, a contract for goods or services is a covered transaction if any of the following applies:
(1) The contract is awarded by a participant in a nonprocurement transaction that is covered under § 19.210, and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000.
(2) The contract requires the consent of a(n) Department of the Treasury official. In that case, the contract, regardless of the amount, always is a covered transaction, and it does not matter who awarded it. For example, it could be a subcontract awarded by a contractor at a tier below a nonprocurement transaction, as shown in the appendix to this part.
(3) The contract is for federally-required audit services.

§ 19.225   How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?

As a participant in a transaction, you will know that it is a covered transaction because the agency regulations governing the transaction, the appropriate agency official, or participant at the next higher tier who enters into the transaction with you, will tell you that you must comply with applicable portions of this part.

Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions


Doing Business With Other Persons


§ 19.300   What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?

When you enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier, you must verify that the person with whom you intend to do business is not excluded or disqualified. You do this by:
(a) Checking the EPLS; or
EPLS;
or
(b) Collecting a certification from that person if allowed by this rule; or
(c) Adding a clause or condition to the covered transaction with that person.

§ 19.305   May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?

(a) You as a participant may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person, unless the Department of the Treasury grants an exception under § 19.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you have obtained an exception under the disqualifying statute, Executive order, or regulation.

§ 19.310   What must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?

(a) You as a participant may continue covered transactions with an excluded person if the transactions were in existence when the agency excluded the person. However, you are not required to continue the transactions, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, unless the Department of the Treasury grants an exception under § 19.120.

§ 19.315   May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?

(a) You as a participant may continue to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction if you were using the services of that person in the transaction before the person was excluded. However, you are not required to continue using that person's services as a principal. You should make a decision about whether to discontinue that person's services only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not begin to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction unless the Department of the Treasury grants an exception under § 19.120.

§ 19.320   Must I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?

Yes, you as a participant are responsible for determining whether any of your principals of your covered transactions is excluded or disqualified from participating in the transaction. You may decide the method and frequency by which you do so. You may, but you are not required to, check the EPLS.
EPLS.

§ 19.325   What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?

If as a participant you knowingly do business with an excluded person, we may disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, debar or suspend you, or take other remedies as appropriate.

§ 19.330   What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

Before entering into a covered transaction with a participant at the next lower tier, you must require that participant to—
(a) Comply with this subpart as a condition of participation in the transaction. You may do so using any method(s), unless § 19.440 requires you to use specific methods.
(b) Pass the requirement to comply with this subpart to each person with whom the participant enters into a covered transaction at the next lower tier.

Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants


§ 19.335   What information must I provide before entering into a covered transaction with the Department of the Treasury?

Before you enter into a covered transaction at the primary tier, you as the participant must notify the Department of the Treasury office that is entering into the transaction with you, if you know that you or any of the principals for that covered transaction:
(a) Are presently excluded or disqualified;
(b) Have been convicted within the preceding three years of any of the offenses listed in § 19.800(a) or had a civil judgment rendered against you for one of those offenses within that time period;
(c) Are presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses listed in § 19.800(a); or
(d) Have had one or more public transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated within the preceding three years for cause or default.

§ 19.340   If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 19.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?

As a primary tier participant, your disclosure of unfavorable information about yourself or a principal under § 19.335 will not necessarily cause us to deny your participation in the covered transaction. We will consider the information when we determine whether to enter into the covered transaction. We also will consider any additional information or explanation that you elect to submit with the disclosed information.

§ 19.345   What happens if I fail to disclose information required under § 19.335?

If we later determine that you failed to disclose information under § 19.335 that you knew at the time you entered into the covered transaction, we may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.

§ 19.350   What must I do if I learn of information required under § 19.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the Department of the Treasury?

At any time after you enter into a covered transaction, you must give immediate written notice to the Department of the Treasury office with which you entered into the transaction if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 19.335; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 19.335.

Disclosing Information—Lower Tier Participants


§ 19.355   What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?

Before you enter into a covered transaction with a person at the next higher tier, you as a lower tier participant must notify that person if you know that you or any of the principals are presently excluded or disqualified.

§ 19.360   What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 19.355?

If we later determine that you failed to tell the person at the higher tier that you were excluded or disqualified at the time you entered into the covered transaction with that person, we may pursue any available remedies, including suspension and debarment.

§ 19.365   What must I do if I learn of information required under § 19.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?

At any time after you enter into a lower tier covered transaction with a person at a higher tier, you must provide immediate written notice to that person if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 19.355; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 19.355.

Subpart D—Responsibilities of Department of the Treasury Officials Regarding Transactions


§ 19.400   May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?

(a) You as an agency official may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person unless you obtain an exception under § 19.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.

§ 19.405   May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?

As an agency official, you may not enter into a covered transaction with a participant if you know that a principal of the transaction is excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 19.120.

§ 19.410   May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?

After entering into a covered transaction with a participant, you as an agency official may not approve a participant's use of an excluded person as a principal under that transaction, unless you obtain an exception under § 19.120.

§ 19.415   What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?

(a) You as an agency official may continue covered transactions with an excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, if the transactions were in existence when the person was excluded. You are not required to continue the transactions, however, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, unless you obtain an exception under § 19.120.

§ 19.420   May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?

If a transaction at a lower tier is subject to your approval, you as an agency official may not approve—
(a) A covered transaction with a person who is currently excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 19.120; or
(b) A transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.

§ 19.425   When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?

As an agency official, you must check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified before you—
(a) Enter into a primary tier covered transaction;
(b) Approve a principal in a primary tier covered transaction;
(c) Approve a lower tier participant if agency approval of the lower tier participant is required; or
(d) Approve a principal in connection with a lower tier transaction if agency approval of the principal is required.

§ 19.430   How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?

You check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified in two ways:
(a) You as an agency official must check the EPLS when you take any action listed in § 19.425.
EPLS
when you take any action listed in § 19.425.
(b) You must review information that a participant gives you, as required by § 19.335, about its status or the status of the principals of a transaction.

§ 19.435   What must I require of a primary tier participant?

You as an agency official must require each participant in a primary tier covered transaction to—
(a) Comply with subpart C of this part as a condition of participation in the transaction; and
(b) Communicate the requirement to comply with Subpart C of this part to persons at the next lower tier with whom the primary tier participant enters into covered transactions.

§ 19.440   What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?

To communicate the requirements, you must include a term or condition in the transaction requiring the participants' compliance with subpart C of this part and requiring them to include a similar term or condition in lower-tier covered transactions.
[[68 FR 66607, Nov. 26, 2003]]

§ 19.445   What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?

If a participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person, you as an agency official may refer the matter for suspension and debarment consideration. You may also disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, or take any other appropriate remedy.

§ 19.450   What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 19.335?

If you as an agency official determine that a participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 19.335, at the time it entered into a covered transaction with you, you may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.

§ 19.455   What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 19.355 to the next higher tier?

If you as an agency official determine that a lower tier participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 19.355, at the time it entered into a covered transaction with a participant at the next higher tier, you may pursue any remedies available to you, including the initiation of a suspension or debarment action.

Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System


§ 19.500   What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?

The EPLS is a widely available source of the most current information about persons who are excluded or disqualified from covered transactions.
EPLS
is a widely available source of the most current information about persons who are excluded or disqualified from covered transactions.

§ 19.505   Who uses the EPLS?

(a) Federal agency officials use the EPLS to determine whether to enter into a transaction with a person, as required under § 19.430.
EPLS
to determine whether to enter into a transaction with a person, as required under § 19.430.
(b) Participants also may, but are not required to, use the EPLS to determine if—
EPLS
to determine if—
(1) Principals of their transactions are excluded or disqualified, as required under § 19.320; or
(2) Persons with whom they are entering into covered transactions at the next lower tier are excluded or disqualified.
(c) The EPLS is available to the general public.
EPLS
is available to the general public.

§ 19.510   Who maintains the EPLS?

In accordance with the OMB guidelines, the General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the EPLS. When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the EPLS.
EPLS.
When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.

§ 19.515   What specific information is in the EPLS?

(a) At a minimum, the EPLS indicates—
EPLS
indicates—
(1) The full name (where available) and address of each excluded or disqualified person, in alphabetical order, with cross references if more than one name is involved in a single action;
(2) The type of action;
(3) The cause for the action;
(4) The scope of the action;
(5) Any termination date for the action;
(6) The agency and name and telephone number of the agency point of contact for the action; and
(7) The Dun and Bradstreet Number (DUNS), or other similar code approved by the GSA, of the excluded or disqualified person, if available.
(b)(1) The database for the EPLS includes a field for the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (the social security number (SSN) for an individual) of an excluded or disqualified person.
EPLS
includes a field for the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (the social security number (SSN) for an individual) of an excluded or disqualified person.
(2) Agencies disclose the SSN of an individual to verify the identity of an individual, only if permitted under the Privacy Act of 1974 and, if appropriate, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, as codified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a).

§ 19.520   Who places the information into the EPLS?

Federal officials who take actions to exclude persons under this part or officials who are responsible for identifying disqualified persons must enter the following information about those persons into the EPLS:
EPLS
:
(a) Information required by § 19.515(a);
(b) The Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of the excluded or disqualified person, including the social security number (SSN) for an individual, if the number is available and may be disclosed under law;
(c) Information about an excluded or disqualified person, generally within five working days, after—
(1) Taking an exclusion action;
(2) Modifying or rescinding an exclusion action;
(3) Finding that a person is disqualified; or
(4) Finding that there has been a change in the status of a person who is listed as disqualified.

§ 19.525   Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?

If you have questions about a person in the EPLS, ask the point of contact for the Federal agency that placed the person's name into the EPLS. You may find the agency point of contact from the EPLS.
EPLS,
ask the point of contact for the Federal agency that placed the person's name into the
EPLS.
You may find the agency point of contact from the
EPLS.

§ 19.530   Where can I find the EPLS?

(a) You may access the EPLS through the Internet, currently at http://epls.arnet.gov.
EPLS
through the Internet, currently at
http://epls.arnet.gov.
(b) As of November 26, 2003, you may also subscribe to a printed version. However, we anticipate discontinuing the printed version. Until it is discontinued, you may obtain the printed version by purchasing a yearly subscription from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, or by calling the Government Printing Office Inquiry and Order Desk at (202) 783-3238.

Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions


§ 19.600   How do suspension and debarment actions start?

When we receive information from any source concerning a cause for suspension or debarment, we will promptly report and investigate it. We refer the question of whether to suspend or debar you to our suspending or debarring official for consideration, if appropriate.

§ 19.605   How does suspension differ from debarment?

Suspension differs from debarment in that—
A suspending official . . .
A debarring official . . .
(a) Imposes suspension as a temporary status of ineligibility for procurement and nonprocurement transactions, pending completion of an investigation or legal proceedings
Imposes debarment for a specified period as a final determination that a person is not presently responsible.
(b) Must—
(1) Have
adequate evidence
that there may be a cause for debarment of a person; and
(2) Conclude that
immediate action
is necessary to protect the Federal interest
Must conclude, based on a
preponderance of the evidence,
that the person has engaged in conduct that warrants debarment.
(c) Usually imposes the suspension
first,
and then promptly notifies the suspended person, giving the person an opportunity to contest the suspension and have it lifted
Imposes debarment
after
giving the respondent notice of the action and an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.

§ 19.610   What procedures does the Department of the Treasury use in suspension and debarment actions?

In deciding whether to suspend or debar you, we handle the actions as informally as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness.
(a) For suspension actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart G of this part.
(b) For debarment actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart H of this part.

§ 19.615   How does the Department of the Treasury notify a person of a suspension or debarment action?

(a) The suspending or debarring official sends a written notice to the last known street address, facsimile number, or e-mail address of—
(1) You or your identified counsel; or
(2) Your agent for service of process, or any of your partners, officers, directors, owners, or joint venturers.
(b) The notice is effective if sent to any of these persons.

§ 19.620   Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?

Yes, when more than one Federal agency has an interest in a suspension or debarment, the agencies may consider designating one agency as the lead agency for making the decision. Agencies are encouraged to establish methods and procedures for coordinating their suspension and debarment actions.

§ 19.625   What is the scope of a suspension or debarment?

If you are suspended or debarred, the suspension or debarment is effective as follows:
(a) Your suspension or debarment constitutes suspension or debarment of all of your divisions and other organizational elements from all covered transactions, unless the suspension or debarment decision is limited—
(1) By its terms to one or more specifically identified individuals, divisions, or other organizational elements; or
(2) To specific types of transactions.
(b) Any affiliate of a participant may be included in a suspension or debarment action if the suspending or debarring official—
(1) Officially names the affiliate in the notice; and
(2) Gives the affiliate an opportunity to contest the action.

§ 19.630   May the Department of the Treasury impute conduct of one person to another?

For purposes of actions taken under this rule, we may impute conduct as follows:
(a) Conduct imputed from an individual to an organization. We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with an organization, to that organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with the individual's performance of duties for or on behalf of that organization, or with the organization's knowledge, approval or acquiescence. The organization's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
Conduct imputed from an individual to an organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with an organization, to that organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with the individual's performance of duties for or on behalf of that organization, or with the organization's knowledge, approval or acquiescence. The organization's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
(b) Conduct imputed from an organization to an individual, or between individuals. We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any organization to an individual, or from one individual to another individual, if the individual to whom the improper conduct is imputed either participated in, had knowledge of, or reason to know of the improper conduct.
Conduct imputed from an organization to an individual, or between individuals.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any organization to an individual, or from one individual to another individual, if the individual to whom the improper conduct is imputed either participated in, had knowledge of, or reason to know of the improper conduct.
(c) Conduct imputed from one organization to another organization. We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of one organization to another organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with a partnership, joint venture, joint application, association or similar arrangement, or when the organization to whom the improper conduct is imputed has the power to direct, manage, control or influence the activities of the organization responsible for the improper conduct. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
Conduct imputed from one organization to another organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of one organization to another organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with a partnership, joint venture, joint application, association or similar arrangement, or when the organization to whom the improper conduct is imputed has the power to direct, manage, control or influence the activities of the organization responsible for the improper conduct. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.

§ 19.635   May the Department of the Treasury settle a debarment or suspension action?

Yes, we may settle a debarment or suspension action at any time if it is in the best interest of the Federal Government.

§ 19.640   May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?

Yes, if we enter into a settlement with you in which you agree to be excluded, it is called a voluntary exclusion and has governmentwide effect.

§ 19.645   Do other Federal agencies know if the Department of the Treasury agrees to a voluntary exclusion?

(a) Yes, we enter information regarding a voluntary exclusion into the EPLS.
EPLS.
(b) Also, any agency or person may contact us to find out the details of a voluntary exclusion.

Subpart G—Suspension


§ 19.700   When may the suspending official issue a suspension?

Suspension is a serious action. Using the procedures of this subpart and subpart F of this part, the suspending official may impose suspension only when that official determines that—
(a) There exists an indictment for, or other adequate evidence to suspect, an offense listed under § 19.800(a), or
(b) There exists adequate evidence to suspect any other cause for debarment listed under § 19.800(b) through (d); and
(c) Immediate action is necessary to protect the public interest.

§ 19.705   What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?

(a) In determining the adequacy of the evidence to support the suspension, the suspending official considers how much information is available, how credible it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations are corroborated, and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as a result. During this assessment, the suspending official may examine the basic documents, including grants, cooperative agreements, loan authorizations, contracts, and other relevant documents.
(b) An indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other official findings by Federal, State, or local bodies that determine factual and/or legal matters, constitutes adequate evidence for purposes of suspension actions.
(c) In deciding whether immediate action is needed to protect the public interest, the suspending official has wide discretion. For example, the suspending official may infer the necessity for immediate action to protect the public interest either from the nature of the circumstances giving rise to a cause for suspension or from potential business relationships or involvement with a program of the Federal Government.

§ 19.710   When does a suspension take effect?

A suspension is effective when the suspending official signs the decision to suspend.

§ 19.715   What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?

After deciding to suspend you, the suspending official promptly sends you a Notice of Suspension advising you—
(a) That you have been suspended;
(b) That your suspension is based on—
(1) An indictment;
(2) A conviction;
(3) Other adequate evidence that you have committed irregularities which seriously reflect on the propriety of further Federal Government dealings with you; or
(4) Conduct of another person that has been imputed to you, or your affiliation with a suspended or debarred person;
(c) Of any other irregularities in terms sufficient to put you on notice without disclosing the Federal Government's evidence;
(d) Of the cause(s) upon which we relied under § 19.700 for imposing suspension;
(e) That your suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or resulting legal or debarment proceedings;
(f) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, subpart F of this part, and any other Department of the Treasury procedures governing suspension decision making; and
(g) Of the governmentwide effect of your suspension from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.

§ 19.720   How may I contest a suspension?

If you as a respondent wish to contest a suspension, you or your representative must provide the suspending official with information in opposition to the suspension. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.

§ 19.725   How much time do I have to contest a suspension?

(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make rrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the suspending official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Suspension.
(b) We consider the notice to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.

§ 19.730   What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?

(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the suspending official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Suspension. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, state, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Suspension that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the Department of the Treasury may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.

§ 19.735   Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?

(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) Your suspension is based upon an indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other finding by a Federal, State, or local body for which an opportunity to contest the facts was provided;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Suspension;
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the suspension are not factual in nature, or are not material to the suspending official's initial decision to suspend, or the official's decision whether to continue the suspension; or
(4) On the basis of advice from the Department of Justice, an office of the United States Attorney, a State attorney general's office, or a State or local prosecutor's office, that substantial interests of the government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced by conducting fact-finding.
(b) You will have an opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the suspending official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.

§ 19.740   Are suspension proceedings formal?

(a) Suspension proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The suspending official may use flexible procedures to allow you to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the suspending official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base a final suspension decision.
(b) You as a respondent or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the suspending official to consider.

§ 19.745   How is fact-finding conducted?

(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the Department of the Treasury agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.

§ 19.750   What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?

(a) The suspending official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the suspending official's initial decision to suspend you;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or opposition to, the suspension; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(b) The suspending official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any resulting findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.

§ 19.755   When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?

The suspending official must make a written decision whether to continue, modify, or terminate your suspension within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the suspending official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The suspending official may extend that period for good cause.

§ 19.760   How long may my suspension last?

(a) If legal or debarment proceedings are initiated at the time of, or during your suspension, the suspension may continue until the conclusion of those proceedings. However, if proceedings are not initiated, a suspension may not exceed 12 months.
(b) The suspending official may extend the 12 month limit under paragraph (a) of this section for an additional 6 months if an office of a U.S. Assistant Attorney General, U.S. Attorney, or other responsible prosecuting official requests an extension in writing. In no event may a suspension exceed 18 months without initiating proceedings under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The suspending official must notify the appropriate officials under paragraph (b) of this section of an impending termination of a suspension at least 30 days before the 12 month period expires to allow the officials an opportunity to request an extension.

Subpart H—Debarment


§ 19.800   What are the causes for debarment?

We may debar a person for—
(a) Conviction of or civil judgment for—
(1) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public or private agreement or transaction;
(2) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes, including those proscribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of customers between competitors, and bid rigging;
(3) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, receiving stolen property, making false claims, or obstruction of justice; or
(4) Commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects your present responsibility;
(b) Violation of the terms of a public agreement or transaction so serious as to affect the integrity of an agency program, such as—
(1) A willful failure to perform in accordance with the terms of one or more public agreements or transactions;
(2) A history of failure to perform or of unsatisfactory performance of one or more public agreements or transactions; or
(3) A willful violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction;
(c) Any of the following causes:
(1) A nonprocurement debarment by any Federal agency taken before October 1, 1988, or a procurement debarment by any Federal agency taken pursuant to 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, before August 25, 1995;
(2) Knowingly doing business with an ineligible person, except as permitted under § 19.120;
(3) Failure to pay a single substantial debt, or a number of outstanding debts (including disallowed costs and overpayments, but not including sums owed the Federal Government under the Internal Revenue Code) owed to any Federal agency or instrumentality, provided the debt is uncontested by the debtor or, if contested, provided that the debtor's legal and administrative remedies have been exhausted;
(4) Violation of a material provision of a voluntary exclusion agreement entered into under § 19.640 or of any settlement of a debarment or suspension action; or
(5) Violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701); or
(d) Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects your present responsibility.

§ 19.805   What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?

After consideration of the causes in § 19.800 of this subpart, if the debarring official proposes to debar you, the official sends you a Notice of Proposed Debarment, pursuant to § 19.615, advising you—
(a) That the debarring official is considering debarring you;
(b) Of the reasons for proposing to debar you in terms sufficient to put you on notice of the conduct or transactions upon which the proposed debarment is based;
(c) Of the cause(s) under § 19.800 upon which the debarring official relied for proposing your debarment;
(d) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, Subpart F of this part, and any other Department of the Treasury procedures governing debarment; and
(e) Of the governmentwide effect of a debarment from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.

§ 19.810   When does a debarment take effect?

A debarment is not effective until the debarring official issues a decision. The debarring official does not issue a decision until the respondent has had an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.

§ 19.815   How may I contest a proposed debarment?

If you as a respondent wish to contest a proposed debarment, you or your representative must provide the debarring official with information in opposition to the proposed debarment. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.

§ 19.820   How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?

(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make arrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the debarring official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Proposed Debarment.
(b) We consider the Notice of Proposed Debarment to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.

§ 19.825   What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?

(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the debarring official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment. Include any information about any of the factors listed in § 19.860. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the debarment;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, State, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Proposed Debarment that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the Department of the Treasury may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.

§ 19.830   Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which a proposed debarment is based?

(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) Your debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment; or
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the proposed debarment are not factual in nature, or are not material to the debarring official's decision whether to debar.
(b) You will have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the debarring official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.

§ 19.835   Are debarment proceedings formal?

(a) Debarment proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The debarring official may use flexible procedures to allow you as a respondent to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the debarring official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base the decision whether to debar.
(b) You or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the debarring official to consider.

§ 19.840   How is fact-finding conducted?

(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the Department of the Treasury agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.

§ 19.845   What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?

(a) The debarring official may debar you for any of the causes in § 19.800. However, the official need not debar you even if a cause for debarment exists. The official may consider the seriousness of your acts or omissions and the mitigating or aggravating factors set forth at § 19.860.
(b) The debarring official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the debarring official's proposed debarment;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed debarment; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(c) The debarring official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The debarring official may reject any resultant findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.

§ 19.850   What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?

(a) In any debarment action, we must establish the cause for debarment by a preponderance of the evidence.
(b) If the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the standard of proof is met.

§ 19.855   Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?

(a) We have the burden to prove that a cause for debarment exists.
(b) Once a cause for debarment is established, you as a respondent have the burden of demonstrating to the satisfaction of the debarring official that you are presently responsible and that debarment is not necessary.

§ 19.860   What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?

This section lists the mitigating and aggravating factors that the debarring official may consider in determining whether to debar you and the length of your debarment period. The debarring official may consider other factors if appropriate in light of the circumstances of a particular case. The existence or nonexistence of any factor, such as one of those set forth in this section, is not necessarily determinative of your present responsibility. In making a debarment decision, the debarring official may consider the following factors:
(a) The actual or potential harm or impact that results or may result from the wrongdoing.
(b) The frequency of incidents and/or duration of the wrongdoing.
(c) Whether there is a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing. For example, if you have been found by another Federal agency or a State agency to have engaged in wrongdoing similar to that found in the debarment action, the existence of this fact may be used by the debarring official in determining that you have a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing.
(d) Whether you are or have been excluded or disqualified by an agency of the Federal Government or have not been allowed to participate in State or local contracts or assistance agreements on a basis of conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(e) Whether you have entered into an administrative agreement with a Federal agency or a State or local government that is not governmentwide but is based on conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(f) Whether and to what extent you planned, initiated, or carried out the wrongdoing.
(g) Whether you have accepted responsibility for the wrongdoing and recognize the seriousness of the misconduct that led to the cause for debarment.
(h) Whether you have paid or agreed to pay all criminal, civil and administrative liabilities for the improper activity, including any investigative or administrative costs incurred by the government, and have made or agreed to make full restitution.
(i) Whether you have cooperated fully with the government agencies during the investigation and any court or administrative action. In determining the extent of cooperation, the debarring official may consider when the cooperation began and whether you disclosed all pertinent information known to you.
(j) Whether the wrongdoing was pervasive within your organization.
(k) The kind of positions held by the individuals involved in the wrongdoing.
(l) Whether your organization took appropriate corrective action or remedial measures, such as establishing ethics training and implementing programs to prevent recurrence.
(m) Whether your principals tolerated the offense.
(n) Whether you brought the activity cited as a basis for the debarment to the attention of the appropriate government agency in a timely manner.
(o) Whether you have fully investigated the circumstances surrounding the cause for debarment and, if so, made the result of the investigation available to the debarring official.
(p) Whether you had effective standards of conduct and internal control systems in place at the time the questioned conduct occurred.
(q) Whether you have taken appropriate disciplinary action against the individuals responsible for the activity which constitutes the cause for debarment.
(r) Whether you have had adequate time to eliminate the circumstances within your organization that led to the cause for the debarment.
(s) Other factors that are appropriate to the circumstances of a particular case.

§ 19.865   How long may my debarment last?

(a) If the debarring official decides to debar you, your period of debarment will be based on the seriousness of the cause(s) upon which your debarment is based. Generally, debarment should not exceed three years. However, if circumstances warrant, the debarring official may impose a longer period of debarment.
(b) In determining the period of debarment, the debarring official may consider the factors in § 19.860. If a suspension has preceded your debarment, the debarring official must consider the time you were suspended.
(c) If the debarment is for a violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, your period of debarment may not exceed five years.

§ 19.870   When do I know if the debarring official debars me?

(a) The debarring official must make a written decision whether to debar within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the debarring official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The debarring official may extend that period for good cause.
(b) The debarring official sends you written notice, pursuant to § 19.615 that the official decided, either—
(1) Not to debar you; or
(2) To debar you. In this event, the notice:
(i) Refers to the Notice of Proposed Debarment;
(ii) Specifies the reasons for your debarment;
(iii) States the period of your debarment, including the effective dates; and
(iv) Advises you that your debarment is effective for covered transactions and contracts that are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1), throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government unless an agency head or an authorized designee grants an exception.

§ 19.875   May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?

Yes, as a debarred person you may ask the debarring official to reconsider the debarment decision or to reduce the time period or scope of the debarment. However, you must put your request in writing and support it with documentation.

§ 19.880   What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?

The debarring official may reduce or terminate your debarment based on—
(a) Newly discovered material evidence;
(b) A reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which your debarment was based;
(c) A bona fide change in ownership or management;
(d) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or
(e) Other reasons the debarring official finds appropriate.

§ 19.885   May the debarring official extend a debarment?

(a) Yes, the debarring official may extend a debarment for an additional period, if that official determines that an extension is necessary to protect the public interest.
(b) However, the debarring official may not extend a debarment solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment action was based.
(c) If the debarring official decides that a debarment for an additional period is necessary, the debarring official must follow the applicable procedures in this subpart, and subpart F of this part, to extend the debarment.

Subpart I—Definitions


§ 19.900   Adequate evidence.

Adequate evidence means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.
Adequate evidence
means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.

§ 19.905   Affiliate.

Persons are affiliates of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other or a third person controls or has the power to control both. The ways we use to determine control include, but are not limited to—
affiliates
of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other or a third person controls or has the power to control both. The ways we use to determine control include, but are not limited to—
(a) Interlocking management or ownership;
(b) Identity of interests among family members;
(c) Shared facilities and equipment;
(d) Common use of employees; or
(e) A business entity which has been organized following the exclusion of a person which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the excluded person.

§ 19.910   Agency.

Agency means any United States executive department, military department, defense agency, or any other agency of the executive branch. Other agencies of the Federal government are not considered “agencies” for the purposes of this part unless they issue regulations adopting the governmentwide Debarment and Suspension system under Executive orders 12549 and 12689.
Agency
means any United States executive department, military department, defense agency, or any other agency of the executive branch. Other agencies of the Federal government are not considered “agencies” for the purposes of this part unless they issue regulations adopting the governmentwide Debarment and Suspension system under Executive orders 12549 and 12689.

§ 19.915   Agent or representative.

Agent or representative means any person who acts on behalf of, or who is authorized to commit, a participant in a covered transaction.
Agent or representative
means any person who acts on behalf of, or who is authorized to commit, a participant in a covered transaction.

§ 19.920   Civil judgment.

Civil judgment means the disposition of a civil action by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether by verdict, decision, settlement, stipulation, other disposition which creates a civil liability for the complained of wrongful acts, or a final determination of liability under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1988 (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812).
Civil judgment
means the disposition of a civil action by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether by verdict, decision, settlement, stipulation, other disposition which creates a civil liability for the complained of wrongful acts, or a final determination of liability under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1988 (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812).

§ 19.925   Conviction.

Conviction means—
Conviction
means—
(a) A judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, including a plea of nolo contendere; or
(b) Any other resolution that is the functional equivalent of a judgment, including probation before judgment and deferred prosecution. A disposition without the participation of the court is the functional equivalent of a judgment only if it includes an admission of guilt.

§ 19.930   Debarment.

Debarment means an action taken by a debarring official under subpart H of this part to exclude a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1). A person so excluded is debarred.
Debarment
means an action taken by a debarring official under subpart H of this part to exclude a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1). A person so excluded is debarred.

§ 19.935   Debarring official.

(a) Debarring official means an agency official who is authorized to impose debarment. A debarring official is either—
Debarring official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose debarment. A debarring official is either—
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 19.940   Disqualified.

Disqualified means that a person is prohibited from participating in specified Federal procurement or nonprocurement transactions as required under a statute, Executive order (other than Executive Orders 12549 and 12689) or other authority. Examples of disqualifications include persons prohibited under—
Disqualified
means that a person is prohibited from participating in specified Federal procurement or nonprocurement transactions as required under a statute, Executive order (other than Executive Orders 12549 and 12689) or other authority. Examples of disqualifications include persons prohibited under—
(a) The Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276(a));
(b) The equal employment opportunity acts and Executive orders; or
(c) The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7606), Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1368) and Executive Order 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799).

§ 19.945   Excluded or exclusion.

Excluded or exclusion means—
Excluded or exclusion
means—
(a) That a person or commodity is prohibited from being a participant in covered transactions, whether the person has been suspended; debarred; proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; voluntarily excluded; or
(b) The act of excluding a person.

§ 19.950   Excluded Parties List System.

Excluded Parties List System (EPLS) means the list maintained and disseminated by the General Services Administration (GSA) containing the names and other information about persons who are ineligible. The EPLS system includes the printed version entitled, “List of Parties Excluded or Disqualified from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs,” so long as published.
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
means the list maintained and disseminated by the General Services Administration (GSA) containing the names and other information about persons who are ineligible. The
EPLS
system includes the printed version entitled, “List of Parties Excluded or Disqualified from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs,” so long as published.

§ 19.955   Indictment.

Indictment means an indictment for a criminal offense. A presentment, information, or other filing by a competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment.
Indictment
means an indictment for a criminal offense. A presentment, information, or other filing by a competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment.

§ 19.960   Ineligible or ineligibility.

Ineligible or ineligibility means that a person or commodity is prohibited from covered transactions because of an exclusion or disqualification.
Ineligible or ineligibility
means that a person or commodity is prohibited from covered transactions because of an exclusion or disqualification.

§ 19.965   Legal proceedings.

Legal proceedings means any criminal proceeding or any civil judicial proceeding, including a proceeding under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812), to which the Federal Government or a State or local government or quasi-governmental authority is a party. The term also includes appeals from those proceedings.
Legal proceedings
means any criminal proceeding or any civil judicial proceeding, including a proceeding under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812), to which the Federal Government or a State or local government or quasi-governmental authority is a party. The term also includes appeals from those proceedings.

§ 19.970   Nonprocurement transaction.

(a) Nonprocurement transaction means any transaction, regardless of type (except procurement contracts), including, but not limited to the following:
Nonprocurement transaction
means any transaction, regardless of type (except procurement contracts), including, but not limited to the following:
(1) Grants.
(2) Cooperative agreements.
(3) Scholarships.
(4) Fellowships.
(5) Contracts of assistance.
(6) Loans.
(7) Loan guarantees.
(8) Subsidies.
(9) Insurances.
(10) Payments for specified uses.
(11) Donation agreements.
(b) A nonprocurement transaction at any tier does not require the transfer of Federal funds.

§ 19.975   Notice.

Notice means a written communication served in person, sent by certified mail or its equivalent, or sent electronically by e-mail or facsimile. (See § 19.615.)
Notice
means a written communication served in person, sent by certified mail or its equivalent, or sent electronically by e-mail or facsimile. (See § 19.615.)

§ 19.980   Participant.

Participant means any person who submits a proposal for or who enters into a covered transaction, including an agent or representative of a participant.
Participant
means any person who submits a proposal for or who enters into a covered transaction, including an agent or representative of a participant.

§ 19.985   Person.

Person means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government, or legal entity, however organized.
Person
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government, or legal entity, however organized.

§ 19.990   Preponderance of the evidence.

Preponderance of the evidence means proof by information that, compared with information opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
Preponderance of the evidence
means proof by information that, compared with information opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.

§ 19.995   Principal.

Principal means—
Principal
means—
(a) An officer, director, owner, partner, principal investigator, or other person within a participant with management or supervisory responsibilities related to a covered transaction; or
(b) A consultant or other person, whether or not employed by the participant or paid with Federal funds, who—
(1) Is in a position to handle Federal funds;
(2) Is in a position to influence or control the use of those funds; or,
(3) Occupies a technical or professional position capable of substantially influencing the development or outcome of an activity required to perform the covered transaction.

§ 19.1000   Respondent.

Respondent means a person against whom an agency has initiated a debarment or suspension action.
Respondent
means a person against whom an agency has initiated a debarment or suspension action.

§ 19.1005   State.

(a) State means—
State
means—
(1) Any of the states of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia;
(3) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(4) Any territory or possession of the United States; or
(5) Any agency or instrumentality of a state.
(b) For purposes of this part, State does not include institutions of higher education, hospitals, or units of local government.
State
does not include institutions of higher education, hospitals, or units of local government.

§ 19.1010   Suspending official.

(a) Suspending official means an agency official who is authorized to impose suspension. The suspending official is either:
Suspending official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose suspension. The suspending official is either:
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 19.1015   Suspension.

Suspension is an action taken by a suspending official under subpart G of this part that immediately prohibits a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) for a temporary period, pending completion of an agency investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A person so excluded is suspended.
Suspension
is an action taken by a suspending official under subpart G of this part that immediately prohibits a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) for a temporary period, pending completion of an agency investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A person so excluded is suspended.

§ 19.1020   Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.

(a) Voluntary exclusion means a person's agreement to be excluded under the terms of a settlement between the person and one or more agencies. Voluntary exclusion must have governmentwide effect.
Voluntary exclusion
means a person's agreement to be excluded under the terms of a settlement between the person and one or more agencies. Voluntary exclusion must have governmentwide effect.
(b) Voluntarily excluded means the status of a person who has agreed to a voluntary exclusion.
Voluntarily excluded
means the status of a person who has agreed to a voluntary exclusion.

Subpart J [Reserved]


Appendix to Part 19—Covered Transactions


PART 20—GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)

[Authority:41 U.S.C. 701, et seq.]
Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701,
et seq.
[Source:68 FR 66557, 66607, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
68 FR 66557, 66607, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage


§ 20.100   What does this part do?

This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701 et seq., as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.

§ 20.105   Does this part apply to me?

(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the Department of the Treasury; or
(2) A(n) Department of the Treasury awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 20.605 and 20.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A(n) Department of the Treasury awarding official
A, D and E.

§ 20.110   Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?

This part does not apply to any award that the Secretary of the Treasury determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.

§ 20.115   Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 20.510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals


§ 20.200   What must I do to comply with this part?

There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 20.205 through 20.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 20.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 20.230).

§ 20.205   What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?

You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.

§ 20.210   To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?

You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 20.205 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.

§ 20.215   What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?

You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.

§ 20.220   By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?

If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 20.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 20.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the Department of the Treasury awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.

§ 20.225   What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?

There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 20.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must_
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either_
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.

§ 20.230   How and when must I identify workplaces?

(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each Department of the Treasury award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces_
(1) To the Department of the Treasury official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by Department of the Treasury officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (e.g., all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the Department of the Treasury awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the Department of the Treasury awarding official.

Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals


§ 20.300   What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?

As a condition of receiving a(n) Department of the Treasury award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the Department of the Treasury awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 20.301 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.

§ 20.301   [Reserved]


Subpart D—Responsibilities of Department of the Treasury Awarding Officials


§ 20.400   What are my responsibilities as a(n) Department of the Treasury awarding official?

As a(n) Department of the Treasury awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences


§ 20.500   How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?

A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.

§ 20.505   How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?

An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.

§ 20.510   What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?

If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 20.500 or § 20.505, the Department of the Treasury may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 22 CFR part 19, for a period not to exceed five years.

§ 20.515   Are there any exceptions to those actions?

The Secretary of the Treasury may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the Secretary of the Treasury determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

Subpart F—Definitions


§ 20.605   Award.

Award means an award of financial assistance by the Department of the Treasury or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the Department of the Treasury or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (i.e., any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
i.e.,
any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).

§ 20.610   Controlled substance.

Controlled substance means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.

§ 20.615   Conviction.

Conviction means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.

§ 20.620   Cooperative agreement.

Cooperative agreement means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 20.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 20.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.

§ 20.625   Criminal drug statute.

Criminal drug statute means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.

§ 20.630   Debarment.

Debarment means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.

§ 20.635   Drug-free workplace.

Drug-free workplace means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.

§ 20.640   Employee.

(a) Employee means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (e.g., volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).

§ 20.645   Federal agency or agency.

Federal agency or agency means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.

§ 20.650   Grant.

Grant means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.

§ 20.655   Individual.

Individual means a natural person.
Individual
means a natural person.

§ 20.660   Recipient.

Recipient means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.

§ 20.665   State.

State means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.

§ 20.670   Suspension.

Suspension means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.

PART 21—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

[Authority:Sec. 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); 31 U.S.C. 321.]
Authority:
Sec. 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); 31 U.S.C. 321.
[Source:55 FR 6737, 6751, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
55 FR 6737, 6751, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

Subpart A—General


§ 21.100   Conditions on use of funds.

(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative ageement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.

§ 21.105   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:
(a) Agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b) Covered Federal action means any of the following Federal actions:
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c) Federal contract means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d) Federal cooperative agreement means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e) Federal grant means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f) Federal loan means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g) Indian tribe and tribal organization have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h) Influencing or attempting to influence means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i) Loan guarantee and loan insurance means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j) Local government means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k) Officer or employee of an agency includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l) Person means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m) Reasonable compensation means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n) Reasonable payment means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o) Recipient includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p) Regularly employed means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q) State means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.

§ 21.110   Certification and disclosure.

(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000, unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement, shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees


§ 21.200   Agency and legislative liaison.

(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 21.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Pub. L. 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

§ 21.205   Professional and technical services.

(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 21.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

§ 21.210   Reporting.

No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees


§ 21.300   Professional and technical services.

(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 21.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 21.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement


§ 21.400   Penalties.

(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see Appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.

§ 21.405   Penalty procedures.

Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.

§ 21.410   Enforcement.

The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

Subpart E—Exemptions


§ 21.500   Secretary of Defense.

(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

Subpart F—Agency Reports


§ 21.600   Semi-annual compilation.

(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.

§ 21.605   Inspector General report.

(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.

Appendix A to Part 21—Certification Regarding Lobbying

Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

Appendix B to Part 21—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying


PART 22—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF RACE, COLOR, OR NATIONAL ORIGIN IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

[Authority:42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-7.]
Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-7.
[Source:81 FR 89855, Dec. 13, 2016, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
81 FR 89855, Dec. 13, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

§ 22.1   Purpose.

The purpose of this part is to effectuate the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VI) to the end that no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the Department of the Treasury.

§ 22.2   Application.

(a) This part applies to any program for which federal financial assistance is authorized under a law administered by the Department, including the types of federal financial assistance listed in appendix A to this part. It also applies to money paid, property transferred, or other federal financial assistance extended after the effective date of this part pursuant to an application approved before that effective date. This part does not apply to:
(1) Any federal financial assistance by way of insurance or guaranty contracts;
(2) Any assistance to any individual who is the ultimate beneficiary; or
(3) Any employment practice, under any such program, of any employer, employment agency, or labor organization, except to the extent described in § 22.4(c). The fact that a type of federal financial assistance is not listed in appendix A to this part shall not mean, if Title VI is otherwise applicable, that a program is not covered. Other types of federal financial assistance under statutes now in force or hereinafter enacted may be added to appendix A to this part.
(b) In any program receiving federal financial assistance in the form, or for the acquisition, of real property or an interest in real property, to the extent that rights to space on, over, or under any such property are included as part of the program receiving that assistance, the nondiscrimination requirement of this part shall extend to any facility located wholly or in part in that space.

§ 22.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:
Applicant means a person who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by an official of the Department of the Treasury, or designee thereof, or by a primary recipient, as a condition to eligibility for federal financial assistance, and application means such an application, request, or plan.
Applicant
means a person who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by an official of the Department of the Treasury, or designee thereof, or by a primary recipient, as a condition to eligibility for federal financial assistance, and
application
means such an application, request, or plan.
Designated agency official means the Assistant Secretary for Management and his or her designee.
Designated agency official
means the Assistant Secretary for Management and his or her designee.
Facility includes all or any part of structures, equipment, or other real or personal property or interests therein, and the provision of facilities includes the construction, expansion, renovation, remodeling, alteration, or acquisition of facilities.
Facility
includes all or any part of structures, equipment, or other real or personal property or interests therein, and the provision of facilities includes the construction, expansion, renovation, remodeling, alteration, or acquisition of facilities.
Federal financial assistance includes:
Federal financial assistance
includes:
(1) Grants and loans of federal funds;
(2) The grant or donation of federal property and interests in property;
(3) The detail of federal personnel;
(4) The sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), federal property or any interest in such property without consideration or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale or lease to the recipient; and
(5) Any federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance.
Primary recipient means any recipient that is authorized or required to extend federal financial assistance to another recipient.
Primary recipient
means any recipient that is authorized or required to extend federal financial assistance to another recipient.
Program or activity and program mean all of the operations of any entity described in the following paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, any part of which is extended federal financial assistance:
Program or activity
and
program
mean all of the operations of any entity described in the following paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, any part of which is extended federal financial assistance:
(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(ii) The entity of such state or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization or sole proprietorship; or
(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in the preceding paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
Recipient may mean any State, territory, possession, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico, or any political subdivision thereof, or instrumentality thereof, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any State, territory, possession, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico, to whom federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary.
Recipient
may mean any State, territory, possession, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico, or any political subdivision thereof, or instrumentality thereof, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any State, territory, possession, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico, to whom federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary.

§ 22.4   Discrimination prohibited.

(a) General. No person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under, any program to which this part applies.
General.
No person in the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under, any program to which this part applies.
(b) Specific discriminatory actions prohibited. (1) A recipient to which this part applies may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin:
Specific discriminatory actions prohibited.
(1) A recipient to which this part applies may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin:
(i) Deny a person any service, financial aid, or other benefit provided under the program;
(ii) Provide any service, financial aid, or other benefit to a person which is different, or is provided in a different manner, from that provided to others under the program;
(iii) Subject a person to segregation or separate treatment in any matter related to his receipt of any service, financial aid, or other benefit under the program;
(iv) Restrict a person in any way in the enjoyment of any advantage or privilege enjoyed by others receiving any service, financial aid, or other benefit under the program;
(v) Treat a person differently from others in determining whether he satisfies any admission, enrollment, quota, eligibility, membership, or other requirement or condition which persons must meet in order to be provided any service, financial aid, or other benefit provided under the program;
(vi) Deny a person an opportunity to participate in the program through the provision of services or otherwise to afford him an opportunity to do so which is different from that afforded others under the program (including the opportunity to participate in the program as a volunteer or as an employee, but only to the extent set forth in paragraph (c) of this section); or
(vii) Deny a person the opportunity to participate as a member of a planning, advisory, or similar body which is an integral part of the program.
(2) A recipient, in determining the types of services, financial aid, or other benefits, or facilities which will be provided under any such program, or the class of persons to whom, or the situations in which, such services, financial aid, other benefits, or facilities will be provided under any such program, or the class of persons to be afforded an opportunity to participate in any such program, may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, use criteria or methods of administration which have the effect of subjecting persons to discrimination because of their race, color, or national origin or have the effect of defeating or substantially impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the program with respect to individuals of a particular race, color, or national origin.
(3) In determining the site or location of facilities, a recipient or applicant may not make selections with the purpose or effect of excluding persons from, denying them the benefits of, or subjecting them to discrimination under any program to which this regulation applies, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin; or with the purpose or effect of defeating or substantially impairing the accomplishment of the objectives of Title VI or this part.
(4) As used in this section the services, financial aid, or other benefits provided under a program receiving federal financial assistance include any service, financial aid, or other benefit provided in or through a facility provided with the aid of federal financial assistance.
(5) The enumeration of specific forms of prohibited discrimination in this paragraph does not limit the generality of the prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section.
(6) This part does not prohibit the consideration of race, color, or national origin if the purpose and effect are to remove or overcome the consequences of practices or impediments which have restricted the availability of, or participation in, the program or activity receiving federal financial assistance, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin. Where prior discriminatory practice or usage tends, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin to exclude individuals from participation in, to deny them the benefits of, or to subject them to discrimination under any program or activity to which this part applies, the applicant or recipient must take affirmative action to remove or overcome the effects of the prior discriminatory practice or usage. Even in the absence of prior discriminatory practice or usage, a recipient in administering a program or activity to which this part applies, may take affirmative action to assure that no person is excluded from participation in or denied the benefits of the program or activity on the grounds of race, color, or national origin.
(c) Employment practices. (1) Where a primary objective of the federal financial assistance to a program to which this part applies is to provide employment, a recipient subject to this part shall not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, subject a person to discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in its employment practices under such program (including recruitment or recruitment advertising, hiring, firing, upgrading, promotion, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation or benefits, selection for training or apprenticeship, and use of facilities). Such recipient shall take affirmative action to insure that applicants are employed, and employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, or national origin. The requirements applicable to construction employment under any such program shall be those specified in or pursuant to Part III of Executive Order 11246 or any Executive Order which supersedes it.
Employment practices.
(1) Where a primary objective of the federal financial assistance to a program to which this part applies is to provide employment, a recipient subject to this part shall not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, subject a person to discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in its employment practices under such program (including recruitment or recruitment advertising, hiring, firing, upgrading, promotion, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation or benefits, selection for training or apprenticeship, and use of facilities). Such recipient shall take affirmative action to insure that applicants are employed, and employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, or national origin. The requirements applicable to construction employment under any such program shall be those specified in or pursuant to Part III of Executive Order 11246 or any Executive Order which supersedes it.
(2) Where a primary objective of the federal financial assistance is not to provide employment, but discrimination on the grounds of race, color, or national origin in the employment practices of the recipient or other persons subject to the regulation tends, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, to exclude individuals from participation in, deny them the benefits of, or subject them to discrimination under any program to which this regulation applies, the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall apply to the employment practices of the recipient or other persons subject to the regulation, to the extent necessary to assure equality of opportunity to, and nondiscriminatory treatment of, beneficiaries.

§ 22.5   Assurances required.

(a) General. Either at the application stage or the award stage, federal agencies must ensure that applications for federal financial assistance or awards of federal financial assistance contain, be accompanied by, or be covered by a specifically identified assurance from the applicant or recipient, satisfactory to the designated agency official, that each program or activity operated by the applicant or recipient and to which these Title VI regulations apply will be operated in compliance with these Title VI regulations.
General.
Either at the application stage or the award stage, federal agencies must ensure that applications for federal financial assistance or awards of federal financial assistance contain, be accompanied by, or be covered by a specifically identified assurance from the applicant or recipient, satisfactory to the designated agency official, that each program or activity operated by the applicant or recipient and to which these Title VI regulations apply will be operated in compliance with these Title VI regulations.
(b) Duration of obligation. (1) In the case where the federal financial assistance is to provide or is in the form of personal property, or real property or interest therein or structures thereon, the assurance shall obligate the recipient, or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits, or for as long as the recipient retains ownership or possession of the property, whichever is longer. In all other cases the assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which federal financial assistance is extended to the program.
Duration of obligation.
(1) In the case where the federal financial assistance is to provide or is in the form of personal property, or real property or interest therein or structures thereon, the assurance shall obligate the recipient, or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the property is used for a purpose for which the federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits, or for as long as the recipient retains ownership or possession of the property, whichever is longer. In all other cases the assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which federal financial assistance is extended to the program.
(2) In the case where federal financial assistance is provided in the form of a transfer of real property, structures, or improvements thereon, or interest therein, from the federal Government, the instrument effecting or recording the transfer shall contain a covenant running with the land assuring nondiscrimination for the period during which the real property is used for a purpose for which the federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits. Where no transfer of property or interest therein from the federal government is involved, but property is acquired or improved with federal financial assistance, the recipient shall agree to include such covenant in any subsequent transfer of such property. When the property is obtained from the federal government, such covenant may also include a condition coupled with a right to be reserved by the Department to revert title to the property in the event of a breach of the covenant where, in the discretion of the designated agency official, such a condition and right of reverter is appropriate to the statute under which the real property is obtained and to the nature of the grant and the grantee. In such event if a transferee of real property proposes to mortgage or otherwise encumber the real property as security for financing construction of new, or improvement of existing, facilities on such property for the purposes for which the property was transferred, the designated agency official may agree, upon request of the transferee and if necessary to accomplish such financing, and upon such conditions as the designated agency official deems appropriate, to subordinate such right of reversion to the lien of such mortgage or other encumbrance.
(c) Continuing federal financial assistance. Every application by a State or a State agency for continuing federal financial assistance to which this part applies (including the types of federal financial assistance listed in appendix A to this part) shall as a condition to its approval and the extension of any federal financial assistance pursuant to the application:
Continuing federal financial assistance.
Every application by a State or a State agency for continuing federal financial assistance to which this part applies (including the types of federal financial assistance listed in appendix A to this part) shall as a condition to its approval and the extension of any federal financial assistance pursuant to the application:
(1) Contain, be accompanied by, or be covered by a statement that the program is (or, in the case of a new program, will be) conducted in compliance with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part; and
(2) Provide, be accompanied by, or be covered by provision for such methods of administration for the program as are found by the designated agency official to give reasonable guarantee that the applicant and all recipients of federal financial assistance under such program will comply with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part.
(d) Assurance from institutions. (1) In the case of any application for federal financial assistance to an institution of higher education (including assistance for construction, for research, for special training projects, for student loans or for any other purpose), the assurance required by this section shall extend to admission practices and to all other practices relating to the treatment of students.
Assurance from institutions.
(1) In the case of any application for federal financial assistance to an institution of higher education (including assistance for construction, for research, for special training projects, for student loans or for any other purpose), the assurance required by this section shall extend to admission practices and to all other practices relating to the treatment of students.
(2) The assurance required with respect to an institution of higher education, hospital, or any other institution, insofar as the assurance relates to the institution's practices with respect to admission or other treatment of individuals as students, patients, or clients of the institution or to the opportunity to participate in the provision of services or other benefits to such individuals, shall be applicable to the entire institution.
(e) Form. (1) The assurances required by paragraph (a) of this section, which may be included as part of a document that addresses other assurances or obligations, shall include that the applicant or recipient will comply with all applicable federal statutes relating to nondiscrimination. This includes but is not limited to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2000d, et seq.
Form.
(1) The assurances required by paragraph (a) of this section, which may be included as part of a document that addresses other assurances or obligations, shall include that the applicant or recipient will comply with all applicable federal statutes relating to nondiscrimination. This includes but is not limited to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2000d,
et seq.
(2) The designated agency official will specify the extent to which such assurances will be required of the applicant's or recipient's subgrantees, contractors, subcontractors, transferees, or successors in interest. Any such assurance shall include provisions which give the United States a right to seek its judicial enforcement.

§ 22.6   Compliance information.

(a) Cooperation and assistance. The designated Agency official shall to the fullest extent practicable seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with this part and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with this part.
Cooperation and assistance.
The designated Agency official shall to the fullest extent practicable seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with this part and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with this part.
(b) Compliance reports. Each recipient shall keep such records and submit to the designated Agency official timely, complete, and accurate compliance reports at such times, and in such form and containing such information, as the designated Agency official may determine to be necessary to enable the designated Agency official to ascertain whether the recipient has complied or is complying with this part. In the case in which a primary recipient extends federal financial assistance to any other recipient, such other recipient shall also submit such compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out its obligations under this part. In general recipients should have available for the designated Agency official racial and ethnic data showing the extent to which members of minority groups are beneficiaries of programs receiving Federal financial assistance.
Compliance reports.
Each recipient shall keep such records and submit to the designated Agency official timely, complete, and accurate compliance reports at such times, and in such form and containing such information, as the designated Agency official may determine to be necessary to enable the designated Agency official to ascertain whether the recipient has complied or is complying with this part. In the case in which a primary recipient extends federal financial assistance to any other recipient, such other recipient shall also submit such compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out its obligations under this part. In general recipients should have available for the designated Agency official racial and ethnic data showing the extent to which members of minority groups are beneficiaries of programs receiving Federal financial assistance.
(c) Access to sources of information. Each recipient shall permit access by the designated Agency official during normal business hours to such of its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information, and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with this part. Where any information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution, or person and this agency, institution, or person fails or refuses to furnish this information, the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information.
Access to sources of information.
Each recipient shall permit access by the designated Agency official during normal business hours to such of its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information, and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with this part. Where any information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution, or person and this agency, institution, or person fails or refuses to furnish this information, the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information.
(d) Information to beneficiaries and participants. Each recipient shall make available to participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the program for which the recipient receives federal financial assistance, and make such information available to them in such manner, as the designated Agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title VI and this part.
Information to beneficiaries and participants.
Each recipient shall make available to participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the program for which the recipient receives federal financial assistance, and make such information available to them in such manner, as the designated Agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title VI and this part.

§ 22.7   Conduct of investigations.

(a) Periodic compliance reviews. The designated Agency official shall from time to time review the practices of recipients to determine whether they are complying with this part.
Periodic compliance reviews.
The designated Agency official shall from time to time review the practices of recipients to determine whether they are complying with this part.
(b) Complaints. Any person who believes that he or she, or any specific class of persons, has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by himself or herself, or by a representative, file with the designated Agency official a written complaint. A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days after the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated Agency official.
Complaints.
Any person who believes that he or she, or any specific class of persons, has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this part may by himself or herself, or by a representative, file with the designated Agency official a written complaint. A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days after the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated Agency official.
(c) Investigations. The designated Agency official will make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review, report, complaint, or any other information indicates a possible failure to comply with this part. The investigation will include, where appropriate, a review of the pertinent practices and policies of the recipient, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the recipient has failed to comply with this part.
Investigations.
The designated Agency official will make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review, report, complaint, or any other information indicates a possible failure to comply with this part. The investigation will include, where appropriate, a review of the pertinent practices and policies of the recipient, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the recipient has failed to comply with this part.
(d) Resolution of matters. (1) If an investigation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section indicates a failure to comply with this part, the designated Agency official will so inform the recipient and the matter will be resolved by informal means whenever possible. If it has been determined that the matter cannot be resolved by informal means, action will be taken as provided for in § 22.8.
Resolution of matters.
(1) If an investigation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section indicates a failure to comply with this part, the designated Agency official will so inform the recipient and the matter will be resolved by informal means whenever possible. If it has been determined that the matter cannot be resolved by informal means, action will be taken as provided for in § 22.8.
(2) If an investigation does not warrant action pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section the designated Agency official will so inform the recipient and the complainant, if any, in writing.
(e) Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited. No recipient or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by section 601 of Title VI or this part, or because the individual has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this part. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding arising thereunder.
Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited.
No recipient or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by section 601 of Title VI or this part, or because the individual has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this part. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding arising thereunder.

§ 22.8   Procedure for effecting compliance.

(a) General. If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with this part may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue federal financial assistance or by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to:
General.
If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with this part may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue federal financial assistance or by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to:
(1) A referral to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States (including other titles of the Civil Rights Act of 1964), or any assurance or other contractual undertaking; and
(2) Any applicable proceeding under State or local law.
(b) Noncompliance with § 22.5. If an applicant fails or refuses to furnish an assurance required under § 22.5 or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to that section, federal financial assistance may be suspended, terminated, or refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. The Agency shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under such paragraph. However, subject to § 22.12, the Agency shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance is due and payable pursuant to an application approved prior to the effective date of this part.
Noncompliance with § 22.5.
If an applicant fails or refuses to furnish an assurance required under § 22.5 or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to that section, federal financial assistance may be suspended, terminated, or refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. The Agency shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under such paragraph. However, subject to § 22.12, the Agency shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance is due and payable pursuant to an application approved prior to the effective date of this part.
(c) Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue federal financial assistance. (1) No order suspending, terminating, or refusing to grant or continue federal financial assistance shall become effective until:
Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue federal financial assistance.
(1) No order suspending, terminating, or refusing to grant or continue federal financial assistance shall become effective until:
(i) The designated Agency official has advised the applicant or recipient of the applicant's or recipient's failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;
(ii) There has been an express finding on the record, after opportunity for hearing, of a failure by the applicant or recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this part;
(iii) The action has been approved by the designated Agency official pursuant to § 22.10(e); and
(iv) The expiration of 30 days after the designated Agency official has filed with the committee of the House and the committee of the Senate having legislative jurisdiction over the program involved, a full written report of the circumstances and the grounds for such action.
(2) Any action to suspend or terminate or to refuse to grant or to continue federal financial assistance shall be limited to the particular political entity, or part thereof, or other applicant or recipient as to whom such a finding has been made and shall be limited in its effect to the particular program, or part thereof, in which such noncompliance has been so found.
(d) Other means authorized by law. No action to effect compliance with Title VI by any other means authorized by law shall be taken by the Department of the Treasury until:
Other means authorized by law.
No action to effect compliance with Title VI by any other means authorized by law shall be taken by the Department of the Treasury until:
(1) The designated Agency official has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;
(2) The recipient or other person has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance; and
(3) The expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the recipient or other person. During this period of at least 10 days, additional efforts shall be made to persuade the recipient or other person to comply with the regulation and to take such corrective action as may be appropriate.

§ 22.9   Hearings.

(a) Opportunity for hearing. Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by § 22.8(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either:
Opportunity for hearing.
Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by § 22.8(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either:
(1) Fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of such notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of the designated agency official that the matter be scheduled for hearing; or
(2) Advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set for hearing at a stated place and time. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing under this paragraph or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under section 602 of Title VI and § 22.8(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as is available.
(b) Time and place of hearing. Hearings shall be held at the offices of the Department of the Treasury component administering the program, at a time fixed by the designated Agency official unless the designated Agency official determines that the convenience of the applicant or recipient or of the Agency requires that another place be selected. Hearings shall be held before the designated Agency official, or at designated Agency official's discretion, before a hearing examiner appointed in accordance with section 3105 of title 5, United States Code, or detailed under section 3344 of title 5, United States Code.
Time and place of hearing.
Hearings shall be held at the offices of the Department of the Treasury component administering the program, at a time fixed by the designated Agency official unless the designated Agency official determines that the convenience of the applicant or recipient or of the Agency requires that another place be selected. Hearings shall be held before the designated Agency official, or at designated Agency official's discretion, before a hearing examiner appointed in accordance with section 3105 of title 5, United States Code, or detailed under section 3344 of title 5, United States Code.
(c) Right to counsel. In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and the Agency shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
Right to counsel.
In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and the Agency shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
(d) Procedures, evidence, and record. (1) The hearing, decision, and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in conformity with sections 554 through 557 of title 5, United States Code, and in accordance with such rules of procedure as are proper (and not inconsistent with this section) relating to the conduct of the hearing, giving of notices subsequent to those provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments and briefs, requests for findings, and other related matters. Both the designated Agency official and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the officer conducting the hearing at the outset of or during the hearing.
Procedures, evidence, and record.
(1) The hearing, decision, and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in conformity with sections 554 through 557 of title 5, United States Code, and in accordance with such rules of procedure as are proper (and not inconsistent with this section) relating to the conduct of the hearing, giving of notices subsequent to those provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments and briefs, requests for findings, and other related matters. Both the designated Agency official and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the officer conducting the hearing at the outset of or during the hearing.
(2) Technical rules of evidence do not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this part, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination shall be applied where determined reasonably necessary by the officer conducting the hearing. The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. All decisions shall be based upon the hearing record and written findings shall be made.
(e) Consolidated or joint hearings. In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with this part with respect to two or more federal statutes, authorities, or other means by which federal financial assistance is extended and to which this part applies, or noncompliance with this part and the regulations of one or more other federal departments or agencies issued under Title VI, the designated Agency official may, by agreement with such other departments or agencies, where applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to such hearings of rules or procedures not inconsistent with this part. Final decisions in such cases, insofar as this regulation is concerned, shall be made in accordance with § 22.10.
Consolidated or joint hearings.
In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with this part with respect to two or more federal statutes, authorities, or other means by which federal financial assistance is extended and to which this part applies, or noncompliance with this part and the regulations of one or more other federal departments or agencies issued under Title VI, the designated Agency official may, by agreement with such other departments or agencies, where applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to such hearings of rules or procedures not inconsistent with this part. Final decisions in such cases, insofar as this regulation is concerned, shall be made in accordance with § 22.10.

§ 22.10   Decisions and notices.

(a) Procedure on decisions by hearing examiner. If the hearing is held by a hearing examiner, the hearing examiner shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including his recommended findings and proposed decision to the designated agency official for a final decision, and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient. Where the initial decision is made by the hearing examiner the applicant or recipient may, within 30 days after the mailing of such notice of initial decision, file with the designated Agency official the applicant's or recipient's exceptions to the initial decision, with the reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions, the designated Agency official may, on his or her own motion, within 45 days after the initial decision, serve on the applicant or recipient a notice that the designated Agency official will review the decision. Upon the filing of such exceptions or of notice of review, the designated Agency official shall review the initial decision and issue his or her own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review the initial decision shall, subject to paragraph (e) of this section, constitute the final decision of the designated Agency official.
Procedure on decisions by hearing examiner.
If the hearing is held by a hearing examiner, the hearing examiner shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including his recommended findings and proposed decision to the designated agency official for a final decision, and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient. Where the initial decision is made by the hearing examiner the applicant or recipient may, within 30 days after the mailing of such notice of initial decision, file with the designated Agency official the applicant's or recipient's exceptions to the initial decision, with the reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions, the designated Agency official may, on his or her own motion, within 45 days after the initial decision, serve on the applicant or recipient a notice that the designated Agency official will review the decision. Upon the filing of such exceptions or of notice of review, the designated Agency official shall review the initial decision and issue his or her own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review the initial decision shall, subject to paragraph (e) of this section, constitute the final decision of the designated Agency official.
(b) Decisions on record or review by the designated Agency official. Whenever a record is certified to the designated Agency official for decision or he or she reviews the decision of a hearing examiner pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or whenever the designated Agency official conducts the hearing, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with the designated Agency official briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a written copy of the final decision of the designated Agency official shall be sent to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.
Decisions on record or review by the designated Agency official.
Whenever a record is certified to the designated Agency official for decision or he or she reviews the decision of a hearing examiner pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or whenever the designated Agency official conducts the hearing, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with the designated Agency official briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a written copy of the final decision of the designated Agency official shall be sent to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.
(c) Decisions on record where a hearing is waived. Whenever a hearing is waived pursuant to § 22.9, a decision shall be made by the designated Agency official on the record and a written copy of such decision shall be sent to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.
Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.
Whenever a hearing is waived pursuant to § 22.9, a decision shall be made by the designated Agency official on the record and a written copy of such decision shall be sent to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.
(d) Rulings required. Each decision of a hearing examiner or the designated Agency official shall set forth his or her ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.
Rulings required.
Each decision of a hearing examiner or the designated Agency official shall set forth his or her ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.
(e) Approval by designated Agency official. Any final decision by an official of the Agency, other than the designated Agency official personally, which provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue federal financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction available under this part or Title VI, shall promptly be transmitted to the designated Agency official personally, who may approve such decision, may vacate it, or remit or mitigate any sanction imposed.
Approval by designated Agency official.
Any final decision by an official of the Agency, other than the designated Agency official personally, which provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue federal financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction available under this part or Title VI, shall promptly be transmitted to the designated Agency official personally, who may approve such decision, may vacate it, or remit or mitigate any sanction imposed.
(f) Content of orders. The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which this regulation applies, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of Title VI and this part, including provisions designed to assure that no federal financial assistance to which this regulation applies will thereafter be extended to the applicant or recipient determined by such decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it pursuant to this part, or to have otherwise failed to comply with this part, unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the designated Agency official that it will fully comply with this part.
Content of orders.
The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which this regulation applies, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of Title VI and this part, including provisions designed to assure that no federal financial assistance to which this regulation applies will thereafter be extended to the applicant or recipient determined by such decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it pursuant to this part, or to have otherwise failed to comply with this part, unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the designated Agency official that it will fully comply with this part.
(g) Post termination proceedings. (1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with this part and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this part.
Post termination proceedings.
(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with this part and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this part.
(2) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the designated Agency official to restore fully its eligibility to receive federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the designated Agency official determines that those requirements have been satisfied, he or she shall restore such eligibility.
(3) If the designated Agency official denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes such official to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record in accordance with rules or procedures issued by the designated Agency official. The applicant or recipient will be restored to such eligibility if it proves at such a hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.

§ 22.11   Judicial review.

Action taken pursuant to section 602 of the Title VI is subject to judicial review as provided in section 603 of the Title VI.

§ 22.12   Effect on other regulations, forms, and instructions.

(a) Effect on other regulations. All regulations, orders, or like directions issued before the effective date of this part by any officer of the Department of the Treasury which impose requirements designed to prohibit any discrimination against individuals on the grounds of race, color, or national origin under any program to which this part applies, and which authorize the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue federal financial assistance to any applicant for a recipient of such assistance for failure to comply with such requirements, are hereby superseded to the extent that such discrimination is prohibited by this part, except that nothing in this part may be considered to relieve any person of any obligation assumed or imposed under any such superseded regulation, order, instruction, or like direction before the effective date of this part. Nothing in this part, however, supersedes any of the following (including future amendments thereof):
Effect on other regulations.
All regulations, orders, or like directions issued before the effective date of this part by any officer of the Department of the Treasury which impose requirements designed to prohibit any discrimination against individuals on the grounds of race, color, or national origin under any program to which this part applies, and which authorize the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue federal financial assistance to any applicant for a recipient of such assistance for failure to comply with such requirements, are hereby superseded to the extent that such discrimination is prohibited by this part, except that nothing in this part may be considered to relieve any person of any obligation assumed or imposed under any such superseded regulation, order, instruction, or like direction before the effective date of this part. Nothing in this part, however, supersedes any of the following (including future amendments thereof):
(1) Executive Order 11246 (3 CFR, 1965 Supp., p. 167) and regulations issued thereunder; or
(2) Any other orders, regulations, or instructions, insofar as such orders, regulations, or instructions prohibit discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in any program or situation to which this part is inapplicable, or prohibit discrimination on any other ground.
(b) Forms and instructions. The designated Agency official shall issue and promptly make available to all interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating this part as applied to programs to which this part applies and for which the designated Agency official is responsible.
Forms and instructions.
The designated Agency official shall issue and promptly make available to all interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating this part as applied to programs to which this part applies and for which the designated Agency official is responsible.
(c) Supervision and coordination. The designated Agency official may from time to time assign to officials of the Agency, or to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of such departments or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of Title VI and this part (other than responsibility for final decision as provided in § 22.10), including the achievement of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within the Agency and within the Executive Branch of the Government in the application of Title VI and this part to similar programs and in similar situations. Any action taken, determination made or requirement imposed by an official of another department or agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this paragraph shall have the same effect as though such action had been taken by the designated Agency official of the Department.
Supervision and coordination.
The designated Agency official may from time to time assign to officials of the Agency, or to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of such departments or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of Title VI and this part (other than responsibility for final decision as provided in § 22.10), including the achievement of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within the Agency and within the Executive Branch of the Government in the application of Title VI and this part to similar programs and in similar situations. Any action taken, determination made or requirement imposed by an official of another department or agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this paragraph shall have the same effect as though such action had been taken by the designated Agency official of the Department.

Appendix A to Part 22—Activities to Which This Part Applies

Note:
Failure to list a type of federal assistance in this appendix A shall not mean, if Title VI is otherwise applicable, that a program is not covered.
Component
Program or activity
Authority
Departmental Offices, Office of Domestic Finance, Office of Financial Institutions
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund—Financial Component
Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, 12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
Departmental Offices, Office of Domestic Finance, Office of Financial Institutions
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund—Technical Assistance Component
Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, 12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
Departmental Offices, Office of Domestic Finance, Office of Financial Institutions
Bank Enterprise Award Program
Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 sec. 114, 12 U.S.C. 4713.
Departmental Offices, Office of Domestic Finance, Office of Financial Institutions
Native American Community Development Financial Institutions Assistance Program, Financial Assistance (FA) Awards
Riegle Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, 12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
Departmental Offices, Office of Domestic Finance, Office of Financial Institutions
Native American Community Development Financial Institutions Assistance (NACA) Program, Technical Assistance Grants
Riegle Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, 12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
Departmental Offices, Office of Domestic Finance, Office of Financial Institutions
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Capital Magnet Fund
Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 sec. 1339, 12 U.S.C. 4569.
Departmental Offices, Office of Domestic Finance, Office of Small Business, Community Development, and Housing Policy
State Small Business Credit Initiative
Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, 12 U.S.C. 5701
et seq.
Internal Revenue Service
Tax Counseling for the Elderly Grant Program
Revenue Act of 1978 sec. 163, Public Law 95-600, 92 Stat 2763, 2810-2811.
Internal Revenue Service
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program
Tax Reform Act of 1969, Public Law 91-172, 83 Stat. 487.
Internal Revenue Service
Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Grant Program
Consolidated Appropriations Act, Public Law 110-161, 121 Stat. 1844, 1975-76 (2007).
Internal Revenue Service
Low Income Taxpayer Clinic Grant Program
Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 sec. 3601, 26 U.S.C. 7526.
United States Mint
U.S. Commemorative Coin Programs
Specific acts of Congress that authorize United States commemorative coin and medal programs provide assistance.
See, e.g.,
the Louis Braille Bicentennial—Braille Literacy Commemorative Coin Act, Public Law 109-247 (2006); the Boy Scouts of America Centennial Commemorative Coin Act, Public Law 110-363 (2008); the American Veterans Disabled for Life Commemorative Coin Act, Public Law 110-277 (2008); and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum Commemorative Medal Act of 2010, Public Law 111-221 (2010).
Departmental Offices, Treasury Executive Office for Asset Forfeiture
Equitable sharing program (transfer of forfeited property to state and local law enforcement agencies)
18 U.S.C. 981(e)(2); 21 U.S.C. 881(e)(1)(A); 31 U.S.C. 9703.
Various Treasury Bureaus and Offices (including the Internal Revenue Service)
Unreimbursed detail of Federal Employees through the Intergovernmental Personnel Act
5 U.S.C. 3371 through 3376.
Departmental Offices, Office of the Fiscal Assistant Secretary
Grants under the RESTORE Act's Direct Component and Centers of Excellence program and supplemental compliance responsibilities for its Comprehensive Plan and Spill Impact Components
Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012, Public Law 112-141.

PART 23—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF AGE IN PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

[Authority:Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq. (45 CFR part 90)]
Authority:
Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
(45 CFR part 90)
[Source:82 FR 47108, Oct. 11, 2017, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
82 FR 47108, Oct. 11, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General


§ 23.1   What is the purpose of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975?

The Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, is designed to prohibit discrimination on the basis of age in programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance. The Act also permits federally assisted programs and activities, and recipients of Federal funds, to continue to use certain age distinctions and factors other than age that meet the requirements of the Act and these regulations.

§ 23.2   What is the purpose of Treasury's age discrimination regulations?

The purpose of these regulations is to set out Treasury's policies and procedures under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 and the general age discrimination regulations at 45 CFR part 90. The Act and the general regulations prohibit discrimination on the basis of age in programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance. The Act and the general regulations permit federally assisted programs and activities, and recipients of Federal funds, to continue to use age distinctions and factors other than age that meet the requirements of the Act and its implementing regulations. These regulations do not apply to actions arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Public Law 90-202, 29 U.S.C. 621 through 634 (ADEA), and do not in any way affect the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's regulations implementing the ADEA at 29 CFR 1625, 1626, and 1627.

§ 23.3   To what programs does this part apply?

(a) This part applies to any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from Treasury.
(b) The regulations in this part do not apply to:
(1) An age distinction contained in that part of a Federal, State, or local statute or ordinance adopted by an elected, general purpose legislative body that:
(i) Provides any benefits or assistance to persons based on age; or
(ii) Establishes criteria for participation in age-related terms; or
(iii) Describes intended beneficiaries to target groups in age-related terms; or
(2) Any employment practice of any employer, employment agency, labor organization, or any labor-management joint apprenticeship training program.

§ 23.4   Definition of terms used in this part.

As used in these regulations, the term:
Act means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6101-6107.
Act
means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6101-6107.
Action means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration; or the use of any policy, rule, standard, or method of administration.
Action
means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration; or the use of any policy, rule, standard, or method of administration.
ADEA means the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, which forbids employment discrimination against anyone 40 years of age or older.
ADEA
means the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, which forbids employment discrimination against anyone 40 years of age or older.
Age means how old a person is, or the number of years from the date of a person's birth.
Age
means how old a person is, or the number of years from the date of a person's birth.
Age distinction means any action using age or an age-related term.
Age distinction
means any action using age or an age-related term.
Age-related term means a word or words that necessarily imply a particular age or range of ages (for example, “children,” “adult,” “older persons,” but not “student”).
Age-related term
means a word or words that necessarily imply a particular age or range of ages (for example, “children,” “adult,” “older persons,” but not “student”).
Federal financial assistance means any grant, entitlement, loan, cooperative agreement, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which Treasury provides assistance in the form of:
Federal financial assistance
means any grant, entitlement, loan, cooperative agreement, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which Treasury provides assistance in the form of:
(1) Funds; or
(2) Services of Federal personnel; or
(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use or property, including:
(i) Transfers or leases of property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and
(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of property if the federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.
Program or activity means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:
Program or activity
means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:
(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(B) That is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(4) Any other entity that is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
Recipient means any State or its political subdivision, any instrumentality of a State or its political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient. Recipient includes any successor, assignee, or transferee, but excludes the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.
Recipient
means any State or its political subdivision, any instrumentality of a State or its political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient. Recipient includes any successor, assignee, or transferee, but excludes the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury, or his or her designee.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury, or his or her designee.
Subrecipient means any of the entities in the definition of recipient to which a recipient extends or passes on Federal financial assistance. A subrecipient is generally regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient in these regulations.
Subrecipient
means any of the entities in the definition of
recipient
to which a recipient extends or passes on Federal financial assistance. A subrecipient is generally regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient in these regulations.
Treasury means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
United States means the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Marianas, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
United States
means the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Marianas, and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Subpart B—Standards for Determining Age Discrimination


§ 23.11   Rules against age discrimination.

The rules stated in this section are limited by the exceptions contained in §§ 23.13 and 23.14.
(a) General rule. No person in the United States shall, on the basis of age, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
General rule.
No person in the United States shall, on the basis of age, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(b) Specific rules. A recipient may not, in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, directly or through contractual licensing, or other arrangements, use age distinctions or take any other actions that have the effect, on the basis of age, of:
Specific rules.
A recipient may not, in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, directly or through contractual licensing, or other arrangements, use age distinctions or take any other actions that have the effect, on the basis of age, of:
(1) Excluding individuals from, denying them the benefits of, or subjecting them to discrimination under, a program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance; or
(2) Denying or limiting individuals in their opportunity to participate in any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.
(c) Non-exhaustive list. The specific forms of age discrimination listed in paragraph (b) of this section do not necessarily constitute a complete list.
Non-exhaustive list.
The specific forms of age discrimination listed in paragraph (b) of this section do not necessarily constitute a complete list.

§ 23.12   Definitions of “normal operation” and “statutory objective.”

For purposes of §§ 23.13 and 23.14, the terms “normal operation” and “statutory objective” shall have the following meaning:
(a) Normal operation means the operation of a program or activity without significant changes that would impair its ability to meet its objectives.
Normal operation
means the operation of a program or activity without significant changes that would impair its ability to meet its objectives.
(b) Statutory objective means any purpose of a program or activity expressly stated in any Federal statute, State statute, or local statute or ordinance adopted by an elected, general purpose legislative body.
Statutory objective
means any purpose of a program or activity expressly stated in any Federal statute, State statute, or local statute or ordinance adopted by an elected, general purpose legislative body.

§ 23.13   Exceptions to the rules against age discrimination: Normal operation or statutory objective of any program or activity.

A recipient is permitted to take an action, otherwise prohibited by § 23.11, if the action reasonably takes into account age as a factor necessary to the normal operation or the achievement of any statutory objective of a program or activity. An action reasonably takes into account age as a factor necessary to the normal operation or the achievement of any statutory objective of a program or activity, if:
(a) Age is used as a measure or approximation of one or more other characteristics; and
(b) The other characteristic(s) must be measured or approximated for the normal operation of the program or activity to continue, or to achieve any statutory objective of the program or activity; and
(c) The other characteristic(s) can be reasonably measured or approximated by the use of age; and
(d) The other characteristic(s) are impractical to measure directly on an individual basis.

§ 23.14   Exceptions to the rules against age discrimination: Reasonable factors other than age.

A recipient is permitted to take an action otherwise prohibited by § 23.11 that is based on a factor other than age, even though that action may have a disproportionate effect on persons of different ages. An action may be based on a factor other than age only if the factor bears a direct and substantial relationship to the normal operation of the program or activity or to the achievement of a statutory objective.

§ 23.15   Burden of proof.

The burden of proving that an age distinction or other action falls within the exceptions outlined in §§ 23.13 and 23.14 is on the recipient of Federal financial assistance.

§ 23.16   Affirmative action by recipient.

Even in the absence of a finding of discrimination, a recipient may take affirmative action to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation in the recipient's program or activity on the basis of age.

§ 23.17   Special benefits for children and the elderly.

If a recipient's operation of a program or activity provides special benefits to the elderly or to children, such use of age distinctions shall be presumed to be necessary to the normal operation of the program or activity, notwithstanding the provisions of § 23.13.

§ 23.18   Age distinctions contained in Treasury regulations.

Any age distinctions contained in a rule or regulation issued by Treasury shall be presumed to be necessary to the achievement of a statutory objective of the program or activity to which the rule or regulation applies, notwithstanding the provisions of § 23.13.

Subpart C—Duties of Treasury Recipients


§ 23.31   General responsibilities.

Each Treasury recipient has primary responsibility to ensure that its programs and activities are in compliance with the Act and these regulations, and shall take steps to eliminate violations of the Act. A recipient also has responsibility to maintain records, provide information, and afford Treasury access to its records to the extent Treasury finds necessary to determine whether the recipient is in compliance with the Act and these regulations.

§ 23.32   Notice to subrecipients and beneficiaries.

(a) Where a recipient passes on Federal financial assistance from Treasury to subrecipients, the recipient shall provide the subrecipients written notice of their obligations under the Act and these regulations.
(b) Each recipient shall make necessary information about the Act and these regulations available to its program beneficiaries to inform them about the protections against discrimination provided by the Act and these regulations.

§ 23.33   Assurance of compliance and recipient assessment of age distinctions.

(a) Written assurance. Each recipient of Federal financial assistance from Treasury shall sign a written assurance as specified by Treasury that it will comply with the Act and these regulations.
Written assurance.
Each recipient of Federal financial assistance from Treasury shall sign a written assurance as specified by Treasury that it will comply with the Act and these regulations.
(b) Recipient assessment of age distinctions. (1) As part of a compliance review under § 23.41 or a complaint investigation under § 23.44, Treasury may require a recipient employing the equivalent of 15 or more employees to complete a written self-evaluation, in a manner specified by the responsible Department official, of any age distinction imposed in its program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from Treasury to assess the recipient's compliance with the Act.
Recipient assessment of age distinctions.
(1) As part of a compliance review under § 23.41 or a complaint investigation under § 23.44, Treasury may require a recipient employing the equivalent of 15 or more employees to complete a written self-evaluation, in a manner specified by the responsible Department official, of any age distinction imposed in its program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance from Treasury to assess the recipient's compliance with the Act.
(2) Whenever an assessment indicates a violation of the Act or the Treasury regulations, the recipient shall take corrective action.

§ 23.34   Information requirements.

Each recipient shall:
(a) Keep records in a form and containing information that Treasury determines may be necessary to ascertain whether the recipient is complying with the Act and these regulations.
(b) Provide to Treasury, upon request, information and reports that Treasury determines are necessary to ascertain whether the recipient is complying with the Act and these regulations.
(c) Permit reasonable access by Treasury to the books, records, accounts, and other recipient facilities and sources of information to the extent Treasury determines is necessary to ascertain whether the recipient is complying with the Act and these regulations.

Subpart D—Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures


§ 23.41   Compliance reviews.

(a) Treasury may conduct compliance reviews and pre-award reviews or use other similar procedures that will permit it to investigate and correct violations of the Act and these regulations. Treasury may conduct these reviews even in the absence of a complaint against a recipient. The reviews may be as comprehensive as necessary to determine whether a violation of the Act or these regulations has occurred.
(b) If a compliance review or pre-award review indicates a violation of the Act or these regulations, Treasury will attempt to achieve voluntary compliance. If voluntary compliance cannot be achieved, Treasury will arrange for enforcement as described in § 23.46.

§ 23.42   Complaints.

(a) Any person, individually or as a member of a class or on behalf of others, may file a complaint with Treasury, alleging discrimination prohibited by the Act or these regulations based on an action occurring on or after July 1, 1979. A complainant shall file a complaint within 180 days from the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged act of discrimination. However, for good cause shown, Treasury may extend this time limit.
(b) Treasury will consider the date a complaint is filed to be the date upon which the complaint is sufficient to be processed.
(c) Treasury will attempt to facilitate the filing of complaints wherever possible, including taking the following measures:
(1) Accepting as a sufficient complaint any written statement that identifies the parties involved and the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged violation, describes generally the action or practice complained of, and is signed by the complainant.
(2) Freely permitting a complainant to add information to the complaint to meet the requirements of a sufficient complaint.
(3) Notifying the complainant and the recipient of their rights and obligations under the complaint procedure, including the right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint resolution process.
(4) Notifying the complainant and the recipient (or their representatives) of their right to contact Treasury for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process.
(d) Treasury will notify the complainant when the complaint falls outside the jurisdiction of these regulations, and will state the reason(s) why it is outside the jurisdiction of these regulations.

§ 23.43   Mediation.

(a) Treasury will promptly refer to a mediation agency designated by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) all sufficient complaints that:
(1) Fall within the jurisdiction of the Act and these regulations, unless the age distinction complained of is clearly within an exception; and,
(2) Contain all information necessary for further processing.
(b) Both the complainant and the recipient shall participate in the mediation process to the extent necessary to reach an agreement or make an informed judgment that an agreement is not possible.
(c) If the complainant and the recipient reach an agreement, the mediator shall prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and the recipient sign it. The mediator shall send a copy of the agreement to Treasury. Treasury will take no further action on the complaint unless the complainant or the recipient fails to comply with the agreement.
(d) The mediator shall protect the confidentially of all information obtained in the course of the mediation process. No mediator shall testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained in the course of the mediation process without prior approval of the head of the mediation agency.
(e)(1) The mediation will proceed for a maximum of 60 days after a complaint is filed with Treasury. Mediation ends if:
(i) 60 days elapse from the time the complaint is filed; or
(ii) Prior to the end of that 60-day period, an agreement is reached; or
(iii) Prior to the end of that 60-day period, the mediator determines that an agreement cannot be reached.
(2) This 60-day period may be extended by the mediator, with the concurrence of Treasury, for not more than 30 days if the mediator determines that agreement likely will be reached during such extended period.
(f) The mediator shall notify Treasury when mediation is not successful and Treasury will continue processing the complaint.

§ 23.44   Investigation.

(a) Informal investigation. (1) Treasury will investigate complaints that are unresolved after mediation or are reopened because of a violation of a mediation agreement.
Informal investigation.
(1) Treasury will investigate complaints that are unresolved after mediation or are reopened because of a violation of a mediation agreement.
(2) As part of the initial investigation, Treasury will use informal fact finding methods, including joint or separate discussions with the complainant and recipient, to establish the facts and, if possible, settle the complaint on terms that are mutually agreeable to the parties. Treasury may seek the assistance of any involved State agency.
(3) Any settlement agreement will be put in writing and the parties will sign it.
(4) The settlement shall not affect the operation of any other enforcement effort of Treasury, including compliance reviews and investigation of other complaints that may involve the recipient.
(5) The settlement is not a finding of discrimination against a recipient.
(b) Formal investigation. If Treasury cannot resolve the complaint through informal investigation, it will begin to develop formal findings through further investigation of the complaint. If the investigation indicates a violation of these regulations, Treasury will attempt to obtain voluntary compliance. If Treasury cannot obtain voluntary compliance, it will begin enforcement as described in § 23.46
Formal investigation.
If Treasury cannot resolve the complaint through informal investigation, it will begin to develop formal findings through further investigation of the complaint. If the investigation indicates a violation of these regulations, Treasury will attempt to obtain voluntary compliance. If Treasury cannot obtain voluntary compliance, it will begin enforcement as described in § 23.46

§ 23.45   Prohibition against intimidation or retaliation.

A recipient may not engage in acts of intimidation or retaliation against any person who:
(a) Attempts to assert a right protected by the Act or these regulations; or
(b) Cooperates in any mediation, investigation, hearing, or other part of Treasury's investigation, conciliation, and enforcement process.

§ 23.46   Compliance procedures.

(a) Treasury may enforce the Act and these regulations through:
(1) Termination of a recipient's Federal financial assistance from Treasury under the program or activity involved where the recipient has violated the Act or these regulations. The determination of the recipient's violation may be made only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge.
(2) Any other means authorized by law, including but not limited to:
(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligations of the recipient created by the Act or these regulations;
(ii) Referral to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, or the Department of Education, as applicable; and
(iii) Use of any requirement of or referral to any Federal, State, or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or these regulations.
(b) Treasury will limit any termination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to the particular recipient and particular program or activity or part of such program or activity Treasury finds in violation of these regulations. Treasury will not base any part of a termination on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient that does not receive Federal financial assistance from Treasury.
(c) Treasury will take no action under paragraph (a) of this section until:
(1) The Secretary has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the

Act and these regulations and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained.
(2) Thirty days have elapsed after the Secretary has sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of Congress having legislative jurisdiction over the Federal program or activity involved. The Secretary will file a report whenever any action is taken under paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) Treasury also may defer granting new Federal financial assistance to a recipient when a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is initiated.
(1) New Federal financial assistance from Treasury includes all assistance for which Treasury requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of new activities, during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from Treasury does not include increases in funding as a result of changed computation of formula awards or assistance approved prior to the beginning of a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) Treasury will not begin a deferral until the recipient has received a notice of an opportunity for a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Treasury will not continue a deferral for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within that time or the time for beginning the hearing has been extended by mutual consent of the recipient and the Secretary. Treasury will not continue a deferral for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing, unless the hearing results in a finding against the recipient.
(3) Treasury will limit any deferral to the particular recipient and particular program or activity or part of such program or activity Treasury finds in violation of these regulations. Treasury will not base any part of a deferral on a finding with respect to any program or activity of the recipient that does not, and would not in connection with the new funds, receive Federal financial assistance from Treasury.

§ 23.47   Hearings, decisions, post-termination proceedings.

Treasury procedural provisions for hearings, decisions, and post-termination proceedings applicable to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and its implementing regulations within Title 31 of the CFR shall apply to Treasury enforcement of these regulations.

§ 23.48   Remedial action by recipient.

Where Treasury finds a recipient has discriminated on the basis of age in violation of the Act or this part, the recipient shall take any remedial action that Treasury may require to overcome the effects of the discrimination.

§ 23.49   Alternate funds disbursal procedure.

(a) When Treasury withholds funds from a recipient under these regulations, the Secretary may disburse the withheld funds directly to an alternate recipient, where appropriate: Any public or non-profit private organization or agency, or State or political subdivision of the State.
(b) The Secretary will require any alternate recipient to demonstrate:
(1) The ability to comply with these regulations; and
(2) The ability to achieve the goals of the Federal statute authorizing the Federal financial assistance.

§ 23.50   Exhaustion of administrative remedies.

(a) A complainant may file a civil action following the exhaustion of administrative remedies under the Act. Administrative remedies are exhausted if:
(1) 180 days have elapsed since the complainant filed the complaint and Treasury has made no finding with regard to the complainant; or
(2) Treasury issues any finding in favor of the recipient.
(b) If Treasury fails to make a finding within 180 days or issues a finding in favor of the recipient, Treasury shall:
(1) Promptly advise the complainant of this fact; and
(2) Advise the complainant of his or her right to bring a civil action for injunctive relief; and
(3) Inform the complainant:
(i) That the complainant may bring a civil action only in a United States district court for the district in which the recipient is found or transacts business;
(ii) That a complainant prevailing in a civil action has the right to be awarded the costs of the action, including reasonable attorney's fee, but that the complainant must demand these costs in the complaint.
(iii) That before commencing the action the complainant shall give 30 days notice by registered mail to the Secretary, the Secretary of HHS, the Attorney General of the United States, and the recipient.
(iv) That the notice must state: The alleged violation of the Act; the relief requested; the court in which the complainant is bringing the action; and whether or not attorney's fees are demanded in the event the complainant prevails; and
(v) That the complainant may not bring an action if the same alleged violation of the Act by the same recipient is the subject of a pending action in any court of the United States.

PART 25—PREPAYMENT OF FOREIGN MILITARY SALES LOANS MADE BY THE DEFENSE SECURITY ASSISTANCE AGENCY AND FOREIGN MILITARY SALES LOANS MADE BY THE FEDERAL FINANCING BANK AND GUARANTEED BY THE DEFENSE SECURITY ASSISTANCE AGENCY

[Authority:Title III, Pub. L. 100-202; 31 U.S.C. 321.]
Authority:
Title III, Pub. L. 100-202; 31 U.S.C. 321.
[Source:53 FR 25426, July 6, 1988, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
53 FR 25426, July 6, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General


§ 25.100   Definitions.

In this part, unless the context indicates otherwise:
(a) Act means the provisions entitled “Foreign Military Sales Debt Reform,” of Title III, entitled “Military Assistance,” of an act entitled “Foreign Operations, Export Financing and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1988” (Pub. L. 100-202), enacted December 22, 1987.
Act
means the provisions entitled “Foreign Military Sales Debt Reform,” of Title III, entitled “Military Assistance,” of an act entitled “Foreign Operations, Export Financing and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1988” (Pub. L. 100-202), enacted December 22, 1987.
(b) AECA means the Arms Export Control Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.).
AECA
means the Arms Export Control Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
).
(c) Borrower means the obligor on an FMS Advance.
Borrower
means the obligor on an FMS Advance.
(d) Closing date means:
Closing date
means:
(1) With respect to the prepayment of the amounts permitted by this part to be prepaid of FMS Loans held by DSAA, the date designated by the mutual agreement of both the Borrower and DSAA on which the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan will be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid; and
(2) With respect to the prepayment of the amounts permitted by this part to be prepaid of FMS Loans held by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA, the date designated by the mutual agreement of the Borrower, the FFB, and DSAA on which the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan will be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or Portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid.
(e) Derivative means any right, interest, instrument or security issued or traded on the credit of the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion, including but not limited to:
Derivative
means any right, interest, instrument or security issued or traded on the credit of the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion, including but not limited to:
(1) Any participation share of, or undivided ownership or other equity interest in, the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion;
(2) Any note, bond or other debt instrument or obligation which is collateralized or otherwise secured by a pledge of, or secruity interest in, the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion; or
(3) Any such interest in such an interest or any such instrument secured by such an instrument.
(f) DSAA means the Defense Security Assistance Agency, an agency within the Department of Defense.
DSAA
means the Defense Security Assistance Agency, an agency within the Department of Defense.
(g) Eligible FMS advance means any FMS Advance which:
Eligible FMS advance
means any FMS Advance which:
(1) Was outstanding on December 22, 1987;
(2) Has principal amounts becoming due and payable after September 30, 1989; and
(3) Bears interest at a rate equal to or greater than 10 percentum per annum.
Eligible FMS Advance
may include FMS Advances meeting the criteria of Eligible FMS Advance which are made on account of FMS Loans even when such FMS Loans do not, in themselves, meet the criteria of Eligible FMS Loan.
(h) Eligible FMS loan means any FMS Loan which:
Eligible FMS loan
means any FMS Loan which:
(1) Was outstanding on December 22, 1987;
(2) Has principal amounts becoming due and payable after September 30, 1989; and
(3) Bears interest pursuant to the terms of the loan agreement relating thereto at a consolidated rate equal to or greater than 10 percentum per annum.
Eligible FMS Loans
may include FMS Advances which are made on account of FMS Loans meeting the criteria of Eligible FMS Loan even when such FMS Advances do not, in themselves, meet the criteria of Eligible FMS Advance.
(i) Eligible private lender means either:
Eligible private lender
means either:
(1) Any of the following entities:
(i) Any banking, savings, or lending institution, or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof, chartered or otherwise lawfully organized under the laws of any State, the District of Columbia, the United States or any territory or possession of the United States, including, but not limited to, any bank, trust company, industrial bank, investment banking company, savings association, savings and loan association, building and loan association, savings bank, credit union, or finance company, which is doing business in the United States;
(ii) Any broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(iii) Any company lawfully organized as an insurance company, and which is subject to supervision by the insurance commissioner or a similar official or agency of a State; or
(iv) Any United States pension fund; or
(2) Any trust or other special purpose financing entity which is funded initially by an entity or entities of the type described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(j) FFB means the Federal Financing Bank, and instrumentality and wholly-owned corporation of the United States.
FFB
means the Federal Financing Bank, and instrumentality and wholly-owned corporation of the United States.
(k) FMS means Foreign Military Sales.
FMS
means Foreign Military Sales.
(l) FMA advance means:
FMA advance
means:
(1) A disbursement of funds made pursuant to a loan agreement between the Borrower and DSAA, which loan agreement provides for making of an FMS Loan; or
(2) A disbursement of funds made pursuant to a loan agreement between the Borrower and the FFB, which loan agreement provides for the making of an FMS Loan.
(m) FMS loan means either:
FMS loan
means either:
(1) A loan made directly by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 23 of AECA; or
(2) A loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 24 of AECA; and “FMS Loans” mean the aggregate of such loans made to or for the account of a Borrower.
(n) Guaranteed-amount debt derivative means any note, bond or other debt instrument or obligation which is collateralized or otherwise secured by a pledge of, or security interest in, the Private Loan Note or any Private Loan Portion Note or any Derivative, as the case may be, which has an exclusive or preferred claim to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be.
Guaranteed-amount debt derivative
means any note, bond or other debt instrument or obligation which is collateralized or otherwise secured by a pledge of, or security interest in, the Private Loan Note or any Private Loan Portion Note or any Derivative, as the case may be, which has an exclusive or preferred claim to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be.
(o) Guaranteed-amount equity derivative means any participation share of, or undivided ownership or other equity interest in, the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion or any Derivative, as the case may be, which has an exclusive or preferred claim to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be.
Guaranteed-amount equity derivative
means any participation share of, or undivided ownership or other equity interest in, the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion or any Derivative, as the case may be, which has an exclusive or preferred claim to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be.
(p) Guaranteed-amount equivalent means:
Guaranteed-amount equivalent
means:
(1) With respect to any Derivative which is equal in principal amount to the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion, that amount of payment on account of such Derivative which is equal to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount, as the case may be; or
(2) With respect to any Derivatives which in the aggregate are equal in principal amount to the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion, that amount of payment on account of such derivatives which is equal to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount, as the case may be.
(q) Guaranteed loan amount means that amount of payment on account of the Private Loan which is guaranteed under the terms of the Guaranty.
Guaranteed loan amount
means that amount of payment on account of the Private Loan which is guaranteed under the terms of the Guaranty.
(r) Guaranteed loan portion amount means that amount of payment on account of any Private Loan Portion which is guaranteed under the terms of the Guaranty.
Guaranteed loan portion amount
means that amount of payment on account of any Private Loan Portion which is guaranteed under the terms of the Guaranty.
(s) Guaranty means either a new guaranty of the United States issued by DSAA or an existing guaranty of the United States transferred by DSAA, in the form of guaranty set forth in § 25.405, which guaranty will be attached to a Private Loan Note or Private Loan Portion Note.
Guaranty
means either a new guaranty of the United States issued by DSAA or an existing guaranty of the United States transferred by DSAA, in the form of guaranty set forth in § 25.405, which guaranty will be attached to a Private Loan Note or Private Loan Portion Note.
(t) Interest rate difference means the difference between:
Interest rate difference
means the difference between:
(1) The cost of funds to the Borrower for the Private Loan (expressed in terms of the true rate of interest applicable to the Private Loan) if paragraph (a) of § 25.404 applies to the Private Loan; and
(2) The cost of funds to the Borrower for the Private Loan (expressed in terms of the true rate of interest applicable to the Private Loan) if paragraph (a) of § 25.404 does not apply to the Private Loan.
(u) Non-registered obligation means a bearer obligation which does not comply with all of the registration requirements of the Internal Revenue Code.
Non-registered obligation
means a bearer obligation which does not comply with all of the registration requirements of the Internal Revenue Code.
(v) Permitted arrears prepayment amount means the sum of all arrears, if any, on all FMS Loans, which arrears are outstanding on the Closing Date.
Permitted arrears prepayment amount
means the sum of all arrears, if any, on all FMS Loans, which arrears are outstanding on the Closing Date.
(w) Permitted guaranty holder means:
Permitted guaranty holder
means:
(1) An individual domiciled in the United States;
(2) A corporation incorporated, chartered or otherwise organized in the United States; or
(3) A partnership or other juridical entity doing business in the United States.
(x) Permitted P&I prepayment amount means, with respect to each Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance, as the case may be, the sum of:
Permitted P&I prepayment amount
means, with respect to each Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance, as the case may be, the sum of:
(1) All principal amounts which become due and payable after September 30, 1989, on the respective Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance; and
(2) All unpaid interest, if any, on the respective Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance accrued as of the Closing Date.
(y) Private loan means, collectively, the loan or loans that is or are obtained by the Borrower from an Eligible Private Lender to prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay.
Private loan
means, collectively, the loan or loans that is or are obtained by the Borrower from an Eligible Private Lender to prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay.
(z) Private loan note means, collectively, the note or notes executed and delivered by the Borrower to evidence the Private Loan.
Private loan note
means, collectively, the note or notes executed and delivered by the Borrower to evidence the Private Loan.
(aa) Private loan portion means any portion of the Private Loan.
Private loan portion
means any portion of the Private Loan.
(bb) Private loan portion note means any note executed and delivered by the Borrower to evidence a Private Loan Portion.
Private loan portion note
means any note executed and delivered by the Borrower to evidence a Private Loan Portion.
(cc) Total permitted prepayment amount means the sum of:
Total permitted prepayment amount
means the sum of:
(1) The aggregate of the respective Permitted P&I Prepayment amount for all Eligible FMS Loans and all Eligible FMS Advances on account of FMS Loans which FMS Loans do not, in themselves, meet the criteria of Eligible FMS Loans; and
(2) The Permitted Arrears Prepayment Amount.
(dd) Unguaranteed-amount equivalent means all amounts of payment on account of any Derivative other than the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent.
Unguaranteed-amount equivalent
means all amounts of payment on account of any Derivative other than the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent.
(ee) Unguaranteed loan amount means all amounts of payment on account of the Private Loan other than the Guaranteed Amount.
Unguaranteed loan amount
means all amounts of payment on account of the Private Loan other than the Guaranteed Amount.
(ff) Unguaranteed loan portion amount means all amounts of payment on account of any Private Loan Portion other than the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount.
Unguaranteed loan portion amount
means all amounts of payment on account of any Private Loan Portion other than the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount.

§ 25.101   OMB control number.

The reporting requirements in this part have been approved under the Office of Management and Budget control number 1505-0109.

Subpart B—Qualifications for Prepayment


§ 25.200   General rules.

(a) To qualify for a loan prepayment at par pursuant to subsection (a) of the Act, a Borrower must have an Eligible FMS Loan or an Eligible FMS Advance.
(b) A Borrower may prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount in portions using more than one closing; however, all prepayments of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount must have a Closing Date that is not later than September 30, 1991.
(c) A Borrower may prepay all or a portion of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount; however, if a Borrower selects to prepay any Permitted P&I Prepayment Amount of an FMS Advance, the Borrower must prepay the entire Permitted P&I Prepayment Amount of such FMS Advance.
(d) If the payment billings of an FMS Loan have been consolidated in accordance with the terms of the respective loan agreement, and if any principal payments have been made on account of the FMS Loan, then the outstanding principal balances of any Eligible FMS Advances shall be determined in accordance with the principal of “first disbursed, first repaid,” that is, advances on account of the FMS Loan shall be deemed to have been repaid in the chronological order in which they were disbursed.

Subpart C—Procedures


§ 25.300   Application procedure.

(a) Each Borrower that wishes to prepay at par the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or any portion thereof, must submit a written prepayment application. To be considered complete, a prepayment application must contain the following information and materials:
(1) Part I of the prepayment application shall be the identification of each Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance, as the case may be, with respect to which the Borrower has selected to prepay the amount thereof permitted by this part to be prepaid, setting forth with respect to each such Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance:
(i) The date on which the Eligible FMS Advance was made or the date on which the Eligible FMS Loan was signed;
(ii) The original amount of the Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance;
(iii) The principal and interest payment schedule of the Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance; and
(iv) The maturity of the Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance.
(2) Part II of the prepayment application shall be the Borrower's estimate of the Permitted Arrears Prepayment Amount calculated as of the date of the application;
(3) Part III of the prepayment application shall be a description of each Private Loan, 90 percent of which the Borrower seeks to have guaranteed, setting forth with respect to each Private Loan:
(i) The total amount of the Private Loan,
(ii) The proposed principal and interest payment schedule of the Private Loan,
(iii) The proposed maturity of the Private Loan, and
(iv) The identity of each Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance with respect to which amount thereof permitted by this part to be prepaid is to be prepaid with the proceeds of the Private Loan;
(4) Part IV of the prepayment application shall be all material transaction documents, in substantially final form, relating to the prepayment of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, with the proceeds of the Private Loan; and
(5) Part V of the prepayment application shall be the name, address, and telephone number of the Borrower's contact person with whom the FFB or DSAA will communicate to arrange for prepayment and closing.
(b) Each prepayment application shall be submitted in triplicate to DSAA at the following address: Defense Security Assistance Agency, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-2800, Attention: Deputy Comptroller.
(c) A Borrower wishing to obtain preliminary, nonbinding review of a plan to prepay at par the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or any portion thereof, may, at the Borrower's option, prior to submitting a prepayment application in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, submit to DSAA, at the address set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, a written plan of prepayment. To qualify for review, a plan of prepayment must include a detailed description of the proposed financing structure clearly addressing the terms and conditions of the proposed Private Loan. DSAA will review each plan of prepayment submitted by Borrowers and may engage in informal, non-binding discussions with each Borrower that submitted a plan of prepayment to assist such Borrower in preparing a prepayment application.

§ 25.301   Approval procedure.

(a) Distribution, Review, and Processing by DSAA. (1) Upon receipt of three copies of a completed prepayment application from a Borrower, DSAA will promptly deliver one copy of Parts I and II of the prepayment application to the State Department and one copy of Parts I, II, and V of the prepayment application to the Treasury Department.
Distribution, Review, and Processing by DSAA.
(1) Upon receipt of three copies of a completed prepayment application from a Borrower, DSAA will promptly deliver one copy of Parts I and II of the prepayment application to the State Department and one copy of Parts I, II, and V of the prepayment application to the Treasury Department.
(2) DSAA will review each completed prepayment application to ensure that the Private Loan complies with the requirements of this part, including without limitation the requirements of § 25.400. DSAA will also review each completed prepayment application to ensure that the provisions of subsection (d) of the Act (Purposes and Reports) are considered. DSAA will process each completed prepayment application within 16 days after receipt by DSAA of the respective completed application from a Borrower.
(3) After DSAA has processed a completed prepayment application, DSAA will either:
(i) Return the application to the Borrower; or
(ii) Deliver to the State Department written evidence of the approval of the prepayment application by DSAA.
(b) Review and Processing by the State Department. (1) The State Department will review Parts I and II of each prepayment application received by the State Department from DSAA to ensure that the provisions of subsection (d) of the Act (Purposes and Reports) are considered. The State Department will process Parts I and II of each prepayment application within 7 days after receipt by the State Department of written evidence of the approval of the prepayment application by DSAA.
Review and Processing by the State Department.
(1) The State Department will review Parts I and II of each prepayment application received by the State Department from DSAA to ensure that the provisions of subsection (d) of the Act (Purposes and Reports) are considered. The State Department will process Parts I and II of each prepayment application within 7 days after receipt by the State Department of written evidence of the approval of the prepayment application by DSAA.
(2) After the State Department has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application, the State Department will either:
(i) Return the parts of the application to DSAA for return to the Borrower; or
(ii) Deliver to the Treasury Department written evidence of the approvals of the prepayment application by DSAA and the State Department.
(c) Processing by the Treasury Department—(1) FMS Loans held by DSAA. (i) The Treasury Department will process Parts I and II of each prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by DSAA, as the case may be, within 7 days after receipt by the Treasury Department of written evidence of the approvals of the prepayment application by DSAA and the State Department;
Processing by the Treasury Department
—(1)
FMS Loans held by DSAA.
(i) The Treasury Department will process Parts I and II of each prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by DSAA, as the case may be, within 7 days after receipt by the Treasury Department of written evidence of the approvals of the prepayment application by DSAA and the State Department;
(ii) After the Treasury Department has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application, the Treasury Department will return the parts of the application to DSAA, and thereupon DSAA will commence the Closing Procedures described in § 25.303(a) with respect to the application.
(2) FMS Loans held by the FFB. (i) The Treasury Department will process Parts I and II of each prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA, as the case may be, within 7 days after receipt by the Treasury Department from the State Department of written evidence of the approvals of the prepayment application by DSAA and the State Department; and
FMS Loans held by the FFB.
(i) The Treasury Department will process Parts I and II of each prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA, as the case may be, within 7 days after receipt by the Treasury Department from the State Department of written evidence of the approvals of the prepayment application by DSAA and the State Department; and
(ii) After the Treasury Department has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application, the Treasury Department will commence the Closing Procedures described in § 25.303(b) with respect to the application.

§ 25.302   Application withdrawal; effect of approval.

A Borrower that submits a prepayment application may withdraw the prepayment application at any time prior to its approval. Even after a Borrower's prepayment application has been approved, the Borrower is not obligated to prepay its Eligible FMS Loans or Eligible FMS Advances.

§ 25.303   Closing procedure.

(a) FMS loans held by DSAA. (1) After the Treasury has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by DSAA, as the case may be, DSAA will communicate with the Borrower's contact person identified in Part V of the prepayment application to establish a Closing Date mutually agreeable to the Borrower and DSAA. DSAA will inform the Borrower of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, as of the Closing Date established. The determination by DSAA of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be conclusive.
FMS loans held by DSAA.
(1) After the Treasury has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by DSAA, as the case may be, DSAA will communicate with the Borrower's contact person identified in Part V of the prepayment application to establish a Closing Date mutually agreeable to the Borrower and DSAA. DSAA will inform the Borrower of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, as of the Closing Date established. The determination by DSAA of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be conclusive.
(2) On the Closing Date, the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan shall be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid.
(3) The attachment of the Guaranty to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, will take place at such location as may be designated by the mutual agreement of the Borrower and DSAA.
(4) Prior to 1:00 p.m. prevailing local time in New York, New York, on the Closing Date, immediately available funds in amounts sufficient to prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be transferred by electronic funds transfer to DSAA at the Treasury Department account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The funds transfer message must include the following credit information:
United States Treasury, New York, New York, 021030004, TREAS NYC/ (5037).
For credit to the Defense Security Assistance Agency, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-2800.
This information must be
exactly
in this form (including spacing between words and numbers) to insure timely receipt by the DSAA. Checks, drafts, and other orders for payment will not be accepted.
(b) FMS Loans held by the FFB. (1) After the Treasury Department has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA, as the case may be, the FFB will communicate with the Borrower's contact person identified in Part V of the prepayment application to establish a Closing Date mutually agreeable to the Borrower, the FFB, and DSAA. The FFB will inform the Borrower of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, as of the Closing Date established. The determination by the FFB of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be conclusive.
FMS Loans held by the FFB.
(1) After the Treasury Department has processed Parts I and II of a prepayment application regarding an Eligible FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA or an Eligible FMS Advance on account of an FMS Loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA, as the case may be, the FFB will communicate with the Borrower's contact person identified in Part V of the prepayment application to establish a Closing Date mutually agreeable to the Borrower, the FFB, and DSAA. The FFB will inform the Borrower of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, as of the Closing Date established. The determination by the FFB of the final amount of the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be conclusive.
(2) On the Closing Date, the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan will be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid.
(3) The attachment of the Guaranty to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, will take place at such location as may be designated by the mutual agreement of the Borrower and DSAA.
(4) Prior to 1:00 p.m. prevailing local time in New York, New York, on the Closing Date, immediately available funds in amounts sufficient to prepay at par the Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, shall be transferred by electronic funds transfer to the Treasury Department account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The funds transfer message must include the following credit information:
United States Treasury, New York, New York, 021030004, TREAS NYC/ (20180006).
For credit to the Federal Financing Bank, Room 143, Liberty Center Building, 401 14th Street SW., Washington, DC 20227.
This information must be
exactly
in this form (including spacing between words and numbers) to insure timely receipt by the FFB. Checks, drafts, and others for payment will not be accepted.
(c) Changes in the closing date. If a Borrower does not prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, on the mutually agreed upon Closing Date, the Borrower may prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, on a new Closing Date, provided that the new Closing Date is mutually agreeable to all interested parties, and provided, further, that the Borrower prepays such amount in accordance with the approved prepayment application, adjusted for changes in accrued interest.
Changes in the closing date.
If a Borrower does not prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, on the mutually agreed upon Closing Date, the Borrower may prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, on a new Closing Date,
provided
that the new Closing Date is mutually agreeable to all interested parties, and
provided, further,
that the Borrower prepays such amount in accordance with the approved prepayment application, adjusted for changes in accrued interest.

Subpart D—Form of Private Loan


§ 25.400   Loan provisions.

(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the principal and interest payment schedule and maturity of the Private Loan must be the same as the payment schedules and maturities of the Eligible FMS Loans or Eligible FMS Advances, as the case may be, which the Borrower has selected to prepay with the proceeds of the Private Loan.
(b) Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, an Eligible Private Lender that proposes to make a Private Loan, the proceeds of which will be used to prepay Eligible FMS Loans or Eligible FMS Advances, as the case may be, having differing payment structures and maturities, may:
(1) Consolidate the differing payment structures of the Eligible FMS Loans or the Eligible FMS Advances, as the case may be, into a single payment structure which complies with the following criteria:
(i) The Private Loan shall have one set of semi-annual payment dates;
(ii) Interest on and principal of the Private Loan shall be payable semi-annually; and
(iii) The amount of principal to be paid each year on account of the Private Loan shall be equal (rounded to the nearest $1,000.00 if desired, except for the final payment) to the aggregate amount of principal that is scheduled to be paid in such year on account of the respective Eligible FMS Loans or Eligible FMS Advances; or
(2) Consolidate the differing payment structures and maturities of the Eligible FMS Loans or the Eligible FMS Advances, as the case may be, into a single payment structure and maturity complying with the following criteria:
(i) The final maturity date of the Private Loan shall be the approximate weighted average of the final maturity dates of the Eligible FMS Loans or the Eligible FMS Advances with respect to which the Borrower has selected to prepay amounts thereof permitted by this part to be prepaid;
(ii) The initial principal payment date of the Private Loan shall occur no later than the earliest scheduled principal payment date of the Eligible FMS Loans or the Eligible FMS Advances with respect to which the Borrower has selected to prepay amounts thereof permitted by this part to be prepaid;
(iii) The Private Loan shall have one set of semi-annual payment dates;
(iv) Interest on the Private Loan shall be payable semi-annually; and
(v) The principal of the Private Loan shall be payable in equal installments (rounded to the nearest $1,000.00 if desired, except for the final payment) and shall be payable either semi-annually or annually.

§ 25.401   Fees.

The interest rate on the Private Loan may include compensation for costs at prevailing market rates with the agreement of the Borrower and the Eligible Private Lender selected by the Borrower.

§ 25.402   Transferability.

Each Private Loan Note, with the Guaranty attached, shall be fully and freely transferable to any Permitted Guaranty Holder.

§ 25.403   Registration.

The Guaranty shall cease to be effective with respect to the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion or any Derivative to the extent that the Private Loan or the respective Private Loan Portion or the respective Derivative, as the case may be, is used to provide significant support for a Non-Registered Obligation.

§ 25.404   Non-separability.

(a) The Guaranty shall cease to be effective with respect to any Guaranteed Loan Amount or any Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or any Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent to the extent that:
(1) The Guaranteed Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, is separated at any time from the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, in any way, directly or through the issuance of any Guaranteed-Amount Equity Derivative or any Guaranteed-Amount Debt Derivative; or
(2) Any holder of the Private Loan Note or any Private Loan Portion Note or any Derivative, as the case may be, having a claim to payments on the Private Loan receives more than 90 percent of any payment due to such holder from payments made under the Guaranty at any time during the term of the Private Loan.
(b) Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, if any Guaranteed-Amount Debt Derivative is issued, the Guaranty shall not cease to be effective with respect to any Guaranteed Loan Amount or any Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or any Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, if both of the circumstances described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) A Borrower shall have delivered to the Secretary of the treasury evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Secretary of the Treasury, that the Interest Rate Difference will be substantial.
(i) To be considered, the evidence must meet the following requirements:
(A) The Borrower must show that the Interest Rate Difference is directly attributable to paragraph (a) of this section being applied to the Private Loan, that is, that the Interest Rate Difference will exist even when all other financing terms of the Private Loan, including any collateralization of the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, are identical;
(B) When calculating the Interest Rate Difference, the Borrower must assume that the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, will be collateralized by securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, unless the Borrower is legally prohibited from so collateralizing the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, or the Borrower has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury that the Borrower is unable to so collateralize the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent;
(C) If the Borrower is legally prohibited from collateralizing the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Loan Guaranteed Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, with securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury that the Borrower is unable to so collateralize the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, then the Borrower may calculate the Interest Rate Difference using whatever collateralization assumptions the Borrower elects;
(D) If the Borrower delivers evidence to the Secretary of the Treasury respecting the Interest Rate Difference, which evidence assumes either that the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, will not be collateralized at all or that the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, will be collateralized, but not by securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, then the Borrower must also deliver to the Secretary of the Treasury the written agreement of the Borrower, which agreement shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the Secretary of the Treasury, that the Borrower will not collateralize the Unguaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Unguaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Unguaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be, at any time during the term of the Private Loan in any way different from the assumptions used in calculating the Interest Rate Difference; and
(E) The Borrower must deliver to the Secretary of the Treasury the evidence pertaining to the Interest Rate Difference at the time that the Borrower submits to DSAA its plan for prepayment, if any, if no plan of prepayment is submitted, then no later than 10 days prior to the time that the Borrower submits to DSAA its prepayment application.
(ii) If the Secretary of the Treasury determines that the evidence submitted by the Borrower pertaining to the Interest Rate Difference is satisfactory in form and in substance, and that the Interest Rate Difference is substantial, a modified version of the Guaranty (deleting therefrom the provision that the Guaranty shall cease to be effective if any Guaranteed-Amount Debt Derivative is issued) will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be.
(2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall have determined, in the sole discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, that the respective Borrower's loan prepayment at par pursuant to subsection (a) of the Act through the issuance of any Guaranteed-Amount Debt Derivative is necessary to achieve the international economic policy interests of the United States.

§ 25.405   Form of guaranty.

(a) The Guaranty that will be attached to the Private Loan Note on the Closing Date shall be in the following form (except that the bracketed words shall be deleted if the conditions specified in § 25.404(b) shall have occurred):
For Value Received, the Defense Security Assistance Agency of the Department of Defense (“DSAA”), hereby guarantees to (Name of Lender) (“Lender”), incorporated under the laws of (U.S. State or other U.S. jurisdiction) or if not so incorporated or organized, then the principal place of doing business is (U.S. location, address, and zip code), under the authority of Section 24 of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended (“Act”), the due and punctual payment of ninety percent (90%) of amounts due: (1) on the promissory note (“Note”) in the principal amount of up to $___ dated ___ issued to the Lender by the Government of (Name of Borrower) (“Borrower”) pursuant to the Loan Agreement between the Lender and the Borrower dated the __th day of ___ (“Agreement”); and (2) the Lender from the Borrower pursuant to the Agreement.
This Guaranty is a guaranty of payment covering all political and credit risks of nonpayment, including any nonpayment arising out of any claim which the Borrower may now or hereafter have against any person, corporation, or other entity (including without limitation, the United States, the Lender, and any supplier of defense items) in connection with any transaction, for any reason whatsoever. This Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the Lender and any Permitted Guaranty Holder (as hereinafter defined). This Guaranty shall not be impaired by any law, regulation or decree of the Borrower now or hereafter in effect which might in any manner change any of the terms of the Note or Agreement. The obligation of DSAA hereunder shall be binding irrespective of the irregularity, invalidity or unenforceability under any laws, regulations or decrees of the Borrower of the Note, the Agreement or other instruments related thereto.
DSAA hereby waives diligence, demand, protest, presentment and any requirement that the Lender exhaust any right or power to take any action against the Borrower and any notice of any kind whatsoever other than the demand for payment required to be given to DSAA hereunder in the event of default on a payment due under the Note.
In the event of failure of the Borrower to make payment, when and as due, of any installment of principal or interest under the Note, the DSAA shall make payment immediately to the Lender upon demand to the DSAA after the Borrower's failure to pay has continued for 10 calendar days. The amount payable under this Guaranty shall be ninety percent (90%) of the amount of the overdue installment of principal and interest, plus ninety percent (90%) of any and all late charges and interest thereon as provided in the Agreement. Upon payment by DSAA to the Lender, the Lender will assign to DSAA, without recourse or warranty, ninety percent (90%) of all of its rights in the Note and the Agreement with respect to such payment.
In the event of a default under the Agreement or the Note by the Borrower and so long as this Guaranty is in effect and the DSAA is not in default hereunder:
(i) The Lender or other Permitted Guaranty Holder shall not accelerate or reschedule payment of the principal or interest on the Note or any other note of the Borrower guaranteed by DSAA except with the written approval of DSAA; and
(ii) The Lender or other Permitted Guaranty Holder shall, if so directed by DSAA, invoke the default provisions of the Agreement.
Subject to the limitations set forth below, the Lender's rights under this Guaranty may be assigned to any “Permitted Guaranty Holder,” that is: (1) An individual domiciled in the United States; (2) a corporation incorporated, chartered or otherwise organized in the United States; or (3) a partnership or other juridical entity doing business in the United States. In the event of such assignment DSAA shall be promptly notified. The Lender will not agree to any material amendment of the Agreement or Note or consent to any material deviation from the provisions thereof without the prior written consent of DSAA.
Permitted Guaranty Holders shall be severally bound by, and shall be severally entitled to, the rights and obligations of the Lender under the Note, the Agreement, and this Guaranty. The Lender shall maintain a current, accurate written record of the names, addresses, amount of financial interest in the Note and Agreement, and date of acquisition of such interest of each Permitted Guaranty Holder and shall furnish DSAA a copy of such record on its demand without charge. No assignment by the Lender or by any Permitted Guaranty Holder shall be effective for purposes of this Guaranty unless and until so recorded by the Lender.
The total amount of this Guaranty shall not at any time exceed ninety percent (90%) of the outstanding principal, unpaid accrued interest and arrearages, if any, under the Agreement and the Note, including any portion of the Note, or any derivative of the Note or any portion of the Note.
This Guaranty shall cease to be effective with respect to the guaranteed amount of the total amount of the Note (the “Guaranteed Loan Amount”) or with respect to the guaranteed amount of any portion of the Note (the “Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount”) [or with respect to the amount of any derivative or derivatives of the Note or any portion of the Note equal, or in the aggregate equal, in principal amount to the total amount of the Note or such portion of the Note, as the case may be, which amount of such derivative or derivatives is equal to the respective Guaranteed Loan Amount or Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount, as the case may be (the “Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent”)] to the extent that (1) the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount [or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent], as the case may be, is at any time separated from the unguaranteed amount of the total amount of the Note or the unguaranteed amount of the respective portion of the Note [or the amount of such derivative or derivatives of the Note which is not the amount which is equal to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount, as the case may be], in any way, (a) directly, or (b) through the issuance of participation shares of, or undivided ownership or other equity interests in, the Note, or any portion of the Note, or any derivative of the Note or any portion of the Note, which have an exclusive or preferred claim to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount [or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent], as the case may be [or (c) through the issuance of notes, bonds or other debt instruments or obligations which are collateralized or otherwise secured by a pledge of, or security interest in, the Note, or any portion of the Note or any derivative of the Note or any portion of the Note, which has an exclusive or preferred claim to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be]; or (2) any holder of the Note, or any portion of the Note, or any derivative of the Note or any portion of the Note, as the case may be, having claim to payment made on the Note, receives more than ninety percent of any payment due to such holder from payments made under this Guaranty at any time during the term of the Note or the Agreement.
This Guaranty is fully and freely transferable to any Permitted Guaranty Holder, except that it shall cease to be effective with respect to the Agreement or the Note, or any portion of the Note, or any derivative of the Note or any portion of the Note, to the extent that the Agreement or the Note, or the respective portion of the Note, or the respective derivative of the Note or any portion of the Note, as the case may be, is used to provide significant support for any non-registered obligation.
The full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the performance of this Guaranty. No claim which the United States may now or hereafter have against the Lender or any Permitted Guaranty Holder for any reason whatsoever shall affect in any way the right of the Lender or any Permitted Guaranty Holder to receive full and prompt payment of any amount otherwise due under this Guaranty. The United States represents and warrants that (a) it has full power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Guaranty, (b) this Guaranty has been executed in accordance with and pursuant to the terms and provisions of section 24 of the Act, the provisions of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1988, under the hearing “Foreign Military Sales Debt Reform,” and title 31, part 25, of the Code of Federal Regulations, (c) this Guaranty has been duly executed and delivered by a duly authorized representative of DSAA, and (d) this Guaranty constitutes the valid and legally binding obligations of the United States, enforceable in accordance with the terms hereof.
Any notice, demand, or other communication hereunder shall be deemed to have been given if in writing and actually delivered to the Comptroller, DSAA, the Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-2800, or the successor, or such other place as may be designated in writing by the Comptroller, DSAA or the successor thereof.
By acceptance of the Note, the Lender agrees to the terms and conditions of this Guaranty.
Dated:
By:
Director, DSAA.
Director, DSAA.
(b) The obligations of DSAA under the Guaranty are expressly limited to those obligations contained in the form of Guaranty set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. Any provisions of any agreement relating to the Private Loan purporting to create obligations on the part of DSAA which are inconsistent with the terms of the Guaranty or any other provision of this part be unenforceable against DSAA.

§ 25.406   Savings clause.

Nothing in this rule is intended to authorize any person or entity to engage in any activity not otherwise authorized or permitted for such person or entity under any applicable laws of the United States, any territory or possession of the United States, any State, or the District of Columbia.

PART 26—ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF ACTIONS BY MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANDS (MDBs)

[Authority:22 U.S.C. 262m-7, 31 U.S.C. 321.]
Authority:
22 U.S.C. 262m-7, 31 U.S.C. 321.
[Source:57 FR 24545, June 10, 1992, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
57 FR 24545, June 10, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

§ 26.1   Purpose.

This part prescribes procedures for the environmental review of, and comment by Federal agencies and the public on, proposed projects of multilateral development banks (MDBs).

§ 26.2   Availability of project listings.

(a) The Office of Multilateral Development Banks of the Department of the Treasury (hereinafter “MDB Office”) will ensure that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), the Department of State, the Agency for International Development (AID), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the Bank Information Center (BIC) (which is a private, nongovernmental organization located in Washington, DC), receive copies from each multilateral development bank (MDB) of project listings describing future MDB projects and assigning environmental categories based on the environmental impact of each project. If an MDB has not provided a project listing to one of these entities, these entities may obtain the project listing by contacting the MDB Office, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220, (202) 622-0765.
(b)(1) Members of the public may obtain copies of project listings from the BIC, 2025 Eye Street NW., suite 522, Washington, DC 20006 ((202) 466-8191, not a toll-free call).
(2) If a copy is not available from the BIC, members of the public may arrange to review and/or copy a project listing by contacting the MDB Office which will make a copy available at the Department of the Treasury Library, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC ((202) 622-0990, not a toll-free call). Members of the public are advised that they must make an appointment with the Treasury Library before they visit and that a charge (currently 15 cents per page) is imposed for the use of the library photocopier.

§ 26.3   Availability of Environmental Impact Assessment Summaries (EIA Summaries) and Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs).

(a) EIA summaries. (1) The MDB Office will provide for the distribution of EIA Summaries to the entities identified in section 26.2(a).
EIA summaries.
(1) The MDB Office will provide for the distribution of EIA Summaries to the entities identified in section 26.2(a).
(2) (i) Members of the public may obtain copies of EIA Summaries from the BIC, 2025 Eye Street, NW., suite 522, Washington, DC 20006 ((202) 466-8191, not a toll-free call).
(ii) If a copy of an EIA Summary is not available from the BIC, members of the public may arrange to review and/or copy an EIA Summary by contacting the MDB Office at (202) 622-0765 (not a toll-free call), which will make a copy available at the Department of the Treasury Library, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washingon, DC. Members of the public are advised that they must make an appointment with the Treasury Library (202) 622-0990) before they visit, and that a charge (currently 15 cents per page) is imposed for the use of the library photocopier. To the extent possible, EIA Summaries will be available for review and copying at least 120 days before scheduled consideration of a project by the MDB Executive Directors.
(b) EIAs—(1) The African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Asian Development Bank. Arrangements to review an EIA may be made by contacting the MDB Office ((202) 622-0765 (not a toll-free call)), which will obtain a copy of the EIA through the Office of the United States Executive Director of the appropriate MDB and make it available for review and copying in the Department of the Treasury Library. Members of the public are advised that they must make an appointment with the Treasury Library, ((202) 622-0900 (not a toll-free call), before they visit, and that a charge (currently 15 cents per page) is imposed for the use of the library photocopier.
EIAs
—(1)
The African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Asian Development Bank.
Arrangements to review an EIA may be made by contacting the MDB Office ((202) 622-0765 (not a toll-free call)), which will obtain a copy of the EIA through the Office of the United States Executive Director of the appropriate MDB and make it available for review and copying in the Department of the Treasury Library. Members of the public are advised that they must make an appointment with the Treasury Library, ((202) 622-0900 (not a toll-free call), before they visit, and that a charge (currently 15 cents per page) is imposed for the use of the library photocopier.
(2) The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Development Association, and the Inter-American Development Bank. (i) Members of the public may review EIAs at the public reading room of the concerned MDB.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Development Association, and the Inter-American Development Bank.
(i) Members of the public may review EIAs at the public reading room of the concerned MDB.
(ii) If a particular MDB does not have a public reading room, members of the public may arrange to review and/or copy an EIA by contacting the MDB Office ((202) 622-0765 (not a toll-free call)), which will obtain a copy through the Office of the United States Executive Director of the concerned MDB and make it available in the Department of the Treasury Library, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC. Members of the public are advised that they must make an appointment with the Treasury Library ((202) 622-0990 not a toll-free call) before they visit, and that a charge (currently 15 cents per page) is imposed for the use of the library photocopier.

§ 26.4   Comments on MDB projects.

(a) Public comments—(1) Written comments (i) A member of the public wishing to provide written comments on a MDB project must provide 2 copies of the comments to the Office of Multilateral Development Banks, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., room 5400, Washington, DC 20220. Written comments should be submitted not later than two weeks after the member of the public has access to the particular document on which it wishes to offer comments—either the project listing, the EIA Summary, or the EIA for a particular project. Written public comments will be provided by the MDB Office to the U.S. Government agencies participating in meetings of the Working Group for Multilateral Assistance (WGMA), which meetings are described in § 26.4(c). The WGMA is an intergovernmental subcommittee of the Development Coordination Committee whose functions are set forth in the Presidential announcement of May 19, 1978, Vol. 14, No. 20, p. 932 of the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents. The WGMA meets to discuss the U.S. position on upcoming MDB projects.
Public comments
—(1)
Written comments
(i) A member of the public wishing to provide written comments on a MDB project must provide 2 copies of the comments to the Office of Multilateral Development Banks, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., room 5400, Washington, DC 20220. Written comments should be submitted not later than two weeks after the member of the public has access to the particular document on which it wishes to offer comments—either the project listing, the EIA Summary, or the EIA for a particular project. Written public comments will be provided by the MDB Office to the U.S. Government agencies participating in meetings of the Working Group for Multilateral Assistance (WGMA), which meetings are described in § 26.4(c). The WGMA is an intergovernmental subcommittee of the Development Coordination Committee whose functions are set forth in the Presidential announcement of May 19, 1978, Vol. 14, No. 20, p. 932 of the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents. The WGMA meets to discuss the U.S. position on upcoming MDB projects.
(ii) All written comments will be available for inspection and copying in their entirety in the Department of the Treasury Library, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC ((202) 622-0990). Members of the public are advised that they must make an appointment with the Treasury Library before they visit, and that a charge (currently 15 cents per page) is imposed for the use of the library photocopier.
(2) Oral comments. Oral comments from a member of the public may be made in periodic meetings convened by the BIC. Information concerning these meetings may be obtained by contacting the BIC or the MDB Office. The MDB Office will summarize and present such comments in the WGMA meetings described in § 26.4(c).
Oral comments.
Oral comments from a member of the public may be made in periodic meetings convened by the BIC. Information concerning these meetings may be obtained by contacting the BIC or the MDB Office. The MDB Office will summarize and present such comments in the WGMA meetings described in § 26.4(c).
(b) U.S. agency comments. Comments from U.S. agencies shall be provided through the WGMA.
U.S. agency comments.
Comments from U.S. agencies shall be provided through the WGMA.
(c) Consideration of comments. The WGMA will consider all comments made by the public and U.S. agencies. The WGMA may review a project up to three times. The first review will consider whether the project has been assigned the appropriate environmental category by the MDB. This review will take place as far in advance as possible of Board consideration of the project. The second review will consider the EIA Summary or the EIA (or information discussed in § 26.5(b)(1)), and comments received from the public on such documentation. The third WGMA review, which will take place shortly before Board consideration of the project, will consider the position of the U.S. Government on the project.
Consideration of comments.
The WGMA will consider all comments made by the public and U.S. agencies. The WGMA may review a project up to three times. The first review will consider whether the project has been assigned the appropriate environmental category by the MDB. This review will take place as far in advance as possible of Board consideration of the project. The second review will consider the EIA Summary or the EIA (or information discussed in § 26.5(b)(1)), and comments received from the public on such documentation. The third WGMA review, which will take place shortly before Board consideration of the project, will consider the position of the U.S. Government on the project.

§ 26.5   Upgrades and additional environmental information.

(a) Environmental category upgrades. If the WGMA and the Department of the Treasury determine that a project would have a significant impact on the human environment, but that the level of environmental analysis planned by the MDB is insufficient, the Department of the Treasury will instruct the United States Executive Director of the concerned MDB to request that the MDB upgrade the project to an environmental category requiring additional environmental analysis. Members of the public may call the MDB Office to inquire about upgrade requests for specific projects.
Environmental category upgrades.
If the WGMA and the Department of the Treasury determine that a project would have a significant impact on the human environment, but that the level of environmental analysis planned by the MDB is insufficient, the Department of the Treasury will instruct the United States Executive Director of the concerned MDB to request that the MDB upgrade the project to an environmental category requiring additional environmental analysis. Members of the public may call the MDB Office to inquire about upgrade requests for specific projects.
(b) Additional environmental information. (1) If the WGMA and the Department of the Treasury determine on the basis of the first WGMA review that:
Additional environmental information.
(1) If the WGMA and the Department of the Treasury determine on the basis of the first WGMA review that:
(i) A MDB project would have a significant impact on the human environment, and
(ii) The MDB appears to have made an appropriate decision that such project merits environmental analysis, but less than a full-fledged environmental impact assessment as defined by that MDB's own procedures, the Department of the Treasury will obtain, through the United States Executive Director of the concerned MDB, such environmental information from the MDB (e.g., environmental chapters from project feasibility studies or environmental data sheets) which contains this environmental analysis. The MDB Office will provide this environmental information to the entities described in § 26.2(a).
(2) If such environmental information is insufficient to provide an adequate basis for analyzing the environmental impact of the proposed project and alternatives to the proposed project, the Department of the Treasury will instruct the United States Executive Director of the concerned MDB not to vote in favor of the project.

PART 27—CIVIL PENALTY ASSESSMENT FOR MISUSE OF DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY NAMES, SYMBOLS, ETC.

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 321, 333.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321, 333.
[Source:62 FR 42213, Aug. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
62 FR 42213, Aug. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

§ 27.1   Purpose.

(a) The regulations in this part implement the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 333(c), which authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to assess a civil penalty against any person who has misused the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges of the Department of the Treasury or any subdivision thereof in violation of 31 U.S.C. 333(a), in accordance with that section and this part.
(b) The regulations in this part do not apply to the extent that the Secretary or his/her designee has specifically authorized the person to manufacture, produce, sell, possess, or use the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges by written contract, agreement, or letter.

§ 27.2   Definitions.

(a) The term “assessing official” means:
(1) The head of a bureau or other subdivision of the Department of the Treasury who has been delegated the authority to assess civil penalties under 31 U.S.C. 333(c); or
(2) An officer or employee of a bureau or subdivision at the grade of GS-15 or above to whom such authority has been redelegated by the head of such bureau or subdivision.
(b) The term “broadcast” or “telecast” mean widespread dissemination by electronic transmission or method, whether audio and/or visual.
(c) The term “civil penalty” means:
(1) A civil monetary penalty; and
(2) Any other civil or equitable remedy deemed necessary to rectify the potential for a continued misuse or harm from an activity found to have been in violation of 31 U.S.C. 333 or this part.
(d) The term “date of offense” means the later of—
(1) The date that the misuse occurred;
(2) The date that the misuse had the effect of conveying the false impression that the activity was associated with or approved, endorsed, sponsored or authorized by the Department or any of its subdivisions or officers or employees; or
(3) If the violation is a continuing one, the date on which the misuse of the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges protected by this part last occurred.
(e) The term “days” means calendar days, unless otherwise stated.
(f) The term “person” means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, company, business, firm, manufacturer, or any other organization or institution.

§ 27.3   Assessment of civil penalties.

(a) General rule. An assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person—
General rule.
An assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person—
(1) Who uses in connection with, or as a part of, any advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product, whether alone or with other words, letters, symbols, or emblems;
(i) The words “Department of the Treasury,” “Internal Revenue Service,” “Bureau of the Fiscal Service,” “Bureau of Engraving and Printing,” “Comptroller of the Currency,” “Financial Crimes Enforcement Network,” “United States Mint,” “Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau,” or the name of any other service, bureau, office, or subdivision of the Department of the Treasury;
(ii) The titles “Secretary of the Treasury,” “Treasurer of the United States,” “Commissioner of Internal Revenue,” “Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service,” “Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing,” “Comptroller of the Currency,” “Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network,” “Director of the United States Mint,” “Administrator of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau,” or the title of any other officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury or subdivision thereof;
(iii) The abbreviations or initials of any entity or title referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, including but not limited to “IRS,” “BFS,” “TTB,” and “FINCEN” or “FinCEN”;
(iv) The words “United States Savings Bond,” including any variation thereof, or the name of any other security, obligation, or financial instrument issued by the Department of the Treasury or any subdivision thereof;
(v) Any symbol, emblem, seal, or badge of an entity referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section (including the design of any envelope, stationery, or identification card used by such an entity); or
(vi) Any colorable imitation of any such words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbol, emblem, seal, or badge; and
(2) Where such use is in a manner that could reasonably be interpreted or construed as conveying the false impression that such advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product is in any manner approved, endorsed, sponsored, or authorized by, or associated with the Department of the Treasury or any entity referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, or any officer, or employee thereof.
(b) Disclaimers. Any determination of whether a person has violated the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be made without regard to any use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government or any particular agency or instrumentality thereof.
Disclaimers.
Any determination of whether a person has violated the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be made without regard to any use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government or any particular agency or instrumentality thereof.
(c) Civil penalty. An assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of a civil monetary penalty shall not exceed $9,956 (2025) for each and every use of any material in violation of paragraph (a), except that such penalty shall not exceed $49,772 for each and every use if such use is in a broadcast or telecast.
Civil penalty.
An assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of a civil monetary penalty shall not exceed $9,956 (2025) for each and every use of any material in violation of paragraph (a), except that such penalty shall not exceed $49,772 for each and every use if such use is in a broadcast or telecast.
(d) Time limitations. (1) Civil penalties imposed under this part must be assessed before the end of the three year period beginning on the date of offense charged.
Time limitations.
(1) Civil penalties imposed under this part must be assessed before the end of the three year period beginning on the date of offense charged.
(2) An assessing official may commence a civil action to recover or enforce any civil penalty imposed in a Final Notice of Assessment issued pursuant to § 27.7 at any time before the end of the two year period beginning on the date of the Final Notice of Assessment. If judicial review of the Final Notice of Assessment is sought, the two year period begins to run from the date that a final and unappealable court order is issued.
(e) Criminal proceeding. No civil penalty may be imposed under this part with respect to any violation of paragraph (a) of this section after a criminal proceeding on the same violation has been commenced by indictment or information under 31 U.S.C. 333(d).
Criminal proceeding.
No civil penalty may be imposed under this part with respect to any violation of paragraph (a) of this section after a criminal proceeding on the same violation has been commenced by indictment or information under 31 U.S.C. 333(d).
[[62 FR 42213, Aug. 6, 1997, as amended at 84 FR 3106, Feb. 11, 2019; 84 FR 15956, Apr. 17, 2019; 85 FR 10064, Feb. 21, 2020; 86 FR 12539, Mar. 4, 2021; 88 FR 16886, Mar. 21, 2023; 89 FR 4819, Jan. 25, 2024; 90 FR 25484, June 17, 2025]]

§ 27.4   Factors to be considered.

The assessing official will consider relevant factors when determining whether to assess or impose a civil penalty under this part, and the amount of a civil monetary penalty. Those factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) The scope of the misuse;
(b) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;
(c) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;
(d) The circumstances of the misuse; and
(e) The benefit intended to be derived from the misuse.

§ 27.5   Initial Notice of Assessment.

The assessing official shall serve an Initial Notice of Assessment by United States mail or other means upon any person believed to be in violation of § 27.3 and otherwise subject to a civil penalty. The notice shall provide the name and telephone number of an agency officer or employee who can provide information concerning the notice and the provisions of this part, and shall include the following:
(a) A specific reference to the provisions of § 27.3 violated;
(b) A concise statement of the facts that support the conclusion that such a violation occurred;
(c) The amount of the penalty proposed, and/or any other proposed civil or equitable remedy;
(d) A notice informing the person alleged to be in violation of § 27.3 that he/she:
(1) May, within 30 days of the date of the notice, pay the proposed civil monetary penalty and consent to each proposed civil or equitable remedy, thereby waiving the right to make a written response under § 27.6 and to seek judicial review under § 27.8:
(i) By electronic funds transfer (EFT) in accordance with instructions provided in the notice, or
(ii) By means other than EFT only with the written approval of the assessing official;
(2) May make a written response within 30 days of the date of the notice asserting, as appropriate:
(i) Why a civil monetary penalty and/or other civil or equitable remedy should not be imposed;
(ii) Why a civil monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed; and
(iii) Why the terms of a proposed civil or equitable remedy should be modified;
(3) May be represented by an attorney or other representative, provided that a designation of representative signed by the person alleged to be in violation is received by the assessing official; and
(4) May request, within 20 days of the date of the notice, a copy of or opportunity to review any documents and/or other evidence compiled and relied on by the agency in determining to issue the notice (the assessing official reserves the right to assert privileges available under law and may decline to disclose certain documents and/or other evidence); and
(e) The Initial Notice of Assessment shall also inform the person that:
(1) If no written response is received within the time allowed in § 27.6(b), a Final Notice of Assessment may be issued without a presentation by the person;
(2) If a written response has been made and it is deemed necessary, the assessing official may request, orally or in writing, additional information from the respondent;
(3) A Final Notice of Assessment may be issued in accordance with § 27.7 requiring that the civil monetary penalty be paid and compliance with the terms of any other civil or equitable remedy;
(4) A Final Notice of Assessment is subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 701 et seq.; and
et seq.;
and
(5) All submissions sent in response to the Initial
Notice of Assessment must be transmitted to the address specified in the notice and include the name, address, and telephone number of the respondent.

§ 27.6   Written response.

(a)(1) A person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment may make a written response explaining why the civil penalty should not be imposed, explaining why a civil monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed and/or explaining why the terms of a proposed civil or equitable remedy should be modified. The written response must provide:
(i) A reference to and specifically identify the Initial Notice of Assessment involved;
(ii) The full name of the person charged;
(iii) If not a natural person, the name and title of the head of the organization charged; and
(iv) If a representative of the person charged is filing the written response, a copy of the duly executed designation as representative.
(2) The written response must admit or deny each violation of § 27.3 charged in the Initial Notice of Assessment. Any charge not specifically denied will be presumed to be admitted. Where a charge is denied, the respondent shall specifically set forth the legal or factual basis upon which the charge is denied. If the basis of the written response is that the person charged is not the person responsible for the misuse(s) charged, the written response must set forth sufficient information to allow the agency to determine the truth of such an assertion. The written response should include any and all documents and/or other information that the respondent believes should be a part of the administrative record on the matter.
(b) Time. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this paragraph must be received not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment.
Time.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this paragraph must be received not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment.
(2) If a request for documents or other evidence is made pursuant to § 27.5(d)(4), the written response must be received not later than 20 days after the date of the Department's response to the request.
(3)(i) In computing the number of days allowed for filing a written response under this paragraph, the first day counted is the day after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment. If the last date on which the response is required to be filed by this paragraph is a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the response will be due on the next weekday after that date.
(ii) If a response is transmitted by United States mail, it will be deemed timely filed if postmarked on or before the due date.
(4) The assessing official may extend the period for making a written response under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) for good cause shown. Generally, failure to obtain representation in a timely manner will not be considered good cause.
(c) Filing. A written response will be considered filed on the date received at the address specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment. The response may be sent by personal delivery, United States mail or commercial delivery. At the discretion of the assessing official, filing may be accomplished by facsimile or any other method deemed appropriate.
Filing.
A written response will be considered filed on the date received at the address specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment. The response may be sent by personal delivery, United States mail or commercial delivery. At the discretion of the assessing official, filing may be accomplished by facsimile or any other method deemed appropriate.
(d) The assessing official will fully consider the facts and arguments submitted by the respondent in the written response and any other documents filed pursuant to this paragraph in determining whether to issue a Final Notice of Assessment under § 27.7, the appropriate amount of the civil monetary penalty imposed and the terms of any other appropriate civil or equitable remedy.

§ 27.7   Final Notice of Assessment.

(a) In making a final determination whether to impose a penalty, the assessing official shall take into consideration all available information in the administrative record on the matter, including all information provided in or with a written response timely filed by the respondent and any additional information provided pursuant to § 27.5(e)(2). The assessing official will determine whether:
(1) The facts warrant a conclusion that no violation has occurred; or
(2) The facts warrant a conclusion that one or more violations have occurred; and
(3) The facts and violations found justify the conclusion that a civil penalty should be imposed.
(b) If the assessing official determines that no violation has occurred, the official shall promptly send a letter indicating that determination to the person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment and to any designated representative of such person.
(c)(1) If it has been determined that a violation has occurred, the assessing official shall issue a Final Notice of Assessment to the person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment and to any designated representative of such person.
(2) The assessing official may, in his/her discretion:
(i) Impose a civil monetary penalty and/or any civil or equitable remedy deemed necessary to rectify the potential for a continued misuse or harm from the violation(s);
(ii) Not impose a civil monetary penalty and/or civil or equitable remedy; or
(iii) Impose a civil monetary penalty and/or civil or equitable remedy and condition payment of the civil monetary penalty on the violator's future compliance with 31 U.S.C. 333, this part and any civil or equitable remedy contained in the Final Notice of Assessment. If a civil monetary penalty is imposed, the assessing official shall determine the appropriate amount of the penalty in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 333(c)(2).
(3) The Final Notice of Assessment shall:
(i) Include:
(A) A specific reference to the provisions of § 27.3 found to have been violated;
(B) A concise statement of the facts warranting a conclusion that a violations has occurred;
(C) An analysis of how the facts and violation(s) justify the conclusion that a civil monetary penalty and/or civil or equitable remedy should be imposed; and
(D) The amount of each civil monetary penalty imposed, a statement as to how the amount of each penalty was determined, and the terms of any civil or equitable remedy deemed necessary to rectify the potential for a continued misuse or harm from the violation(s); and
(ii) Inform the person that:
(A) Payment of a civil monetary penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment must be made within 30 days of the date of the notice, and that any civil or equitable remedy imposed must be complied with as provided in the Final Notice of Assessment;
(B) Payment of a civil monetary penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment shall be by EFT in accordance with instructions provided in the notice, unless the assessing official has given written approval to have payment made by other means;
(C) payment of a civil monetary penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment constitutes consent by the person to comply with the terms of any civil or equitable remedy contained in the notice;
(D) If payment of a civil monetary penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment has been waived on the condition that the person comply with the terms of any civil or equitable remedy contained in the notice or comply in the future with 31 U.S.C. 333 and this part, failure by the person to so comply will make the civil monetary penalty payable on demand;
(E) If a civil monetary penalty is not paid within 30 days of the date of the Final Notice of Assessment (or on demand under paragraph (C)(3)(ii)(D) of this sectiion), or if a civil or equitable remedy is not complied with in accordance with the terms of the notice, a civil action to collect the penalty or enforce compliance may be commenced at any time within two years of the date of the Final Notice of Assessment; and
(F) Any civil monetary penalty and civil or equitable remedy imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment may be subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 701 et seq.
et seq.
[[62 FR 42213, Aug. 6, 1997; 62 FR 44036, Aug. 18, 1997]]

§ 27.8   Judicial review.

A final Notice of Assessment issued under this party may be subject to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 701 et seq.
et seq.

PART 28—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF SEX IN EDUCATION PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

[Authority:20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688.]
Authority:
20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688.
[Source:65 FR 52865, 52881, Aug. 30, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 52865, 52881, Aug. 30, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Introduction


§ 28.100   Purpose and effective date.

The purpose of these Title IX regulations is to effectuate Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (except sections 904 and 906 of those Amendments) (20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688), which is designed to eliminate (with certain exceptions) discrimination on the basis of sex in any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, whether or not such program or activity is offered or sponsored by an educational institution as defined in these Title IX regulations. The effective date of these Title IX regulations shall be September 29, 2000.

§ 28.105   Definitions.

As used in these Title IX regulations, the term:
Administratively separate unit means a school, department, or college of an educational institution (other than a local educational agency) admission to which is independent of admission to any other component of such institution.
Administratively separate unit
means a school, department, or college of an educational institution (other than a local educational agency) admission to which is independent of admission to any other component of such institution.
Admission means selection for part-time, full-time, special, associate, transfer, exchange, or any other enrollment, membership, or matriculation in or at an education program or activity operated by a recipient.
Admission
means selection for part-time, full-time, special, associate, transfer, exchange, or any other enrollment, membership, or matriculation in or at an education program or activity operated by a recipient.
Applicant means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by an official of the Federal agency that awards Federal financial assistance, or by a recipient, as a condition to becoming a recipient.
Applicant
means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by an official of the Federal agency that awards Federal financial assistance, or by a recipient, as a condition to becoming a recipient.
Department means Department of the Treasury.
Department
means Department of the Treasury.
Designated agency official means Assistant Secretary for Management and Chief Financial Officer.
Designated agency official
means Assistant Secretary for Management and Chief Financial Officer.
Educational institution means a local educational agency (LEA) as defined by 20 U.S.C. 8801(18), a preschool, a private elementary or secondary school, or an applicant or recipient that is an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education, as defined in this section.
Educational institution
means a local educational agency (LEA) as defined by 20 U.S.C. 8801(18), a preschool, a private elementary or secondary school, or an applicant or recipient that is an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education, as defined in this section.
Federal financial assistance means any of the following, when authorized or extended under a law administered by the Federal agency that awards such assistance:
Federal financial assistance
means any of the following, when authorized or extended under a law administered by the Federal agency that awards such assistance:
(1) A grant or loan of Federal financial assistance, including funds made available for:
(i) The acquisition, construction, renovation, restoration, or repair of a building or facility or any portion thereof; and
(ii) Scholarships, loans, grants, wages, or other funds extended to any entity for payment to or on behalf of students admitted to that entity, or extended directly to such students for payment to that entity.
(2) A grant of Federal real or personal property or any interest therein, including surplus property, and the proceeds of the sale or transfer of such property, if the Federal share of the fair market value of the property is not, upon such sale or transfer, properly accounted for to the Federal Government.
(3) Provision of the services of Federal personnel.
(4) Sale or lease of Federal property or any interest therein at nominal consideration, or at consideration reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient or in recognition of public interest to be served thereby, or permission to use Federal property or any interest therein without consideration.
(5) Any other contract, agreement, or arrangement that has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance to any education program or activity, except a contract of insurance or guaranty.
Institution of graduate higher education means an institution that:
Institution of graduate higher education
means an institution that:
(1) Offers academic study beyond the bachelor of arts or bachelor of science degree, whether or not leading to a certificate of any higher degree in the liberal arts and sciences;
(2) Awards any degree in a professional field beyond the first professional degree (regardless of whether the first professional degree in such field is awarded by an institution of undergraduate higher education or professional education); or
(3) Awards no degree and offers no further academic study, but operates ordinarily for the purpose of facilitating research by persons who have received the highest graduate degree in any field of study.
Institution of professional education means an institution (except any institution of undergraduate higher education) that offers a program of academic study that leads to a first professional degree in a field for which there is a national specialized accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of Education.
Institution of professional education
means an institution (except any institution of undergraduate higher education) that offers a program of academic study that leads to a first professional degree in a field for which there is a national specialized accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of Education.
Institution of undergraduate higher education means:
Institution of undergraduate higher education
means:
(1) An institution offering at least two but less than four years of college-level study beyond the high school level, leading to a diploma or an associate degree, or wholly or principally creditable toward a baccalaureate degree; or
(2) An institution offering academic study leading to a baccalaureate degree; or
(3) An agency or body that certifies credentials or offers degrees, but that may or may not offer academic study.
Institution of vocational education means a school or institution (except an institution of professional or graduate or undergraduate higher education) that has as its primary purpose preparation of students to pursue a technical, skilled, or semiskilled occupation or trade, or to pursue study in a technical field, whether or not the school or institution offers certificates, diplomas, or degrees and whether or not it offers full-time study.
Institution of vocational education
means a school or institution (except an institution of professional or graduate or undergraduate higher education) that has as its primary purpose preparation of students to pursue a technical, skilled, or semiskilled occupation or trade, or to pursue study in a technical field, whether or not the school or institution offers certificates, diplomas, or degrees and whether or not it offers full-time study.
Recipient means any State or political subdivision thereof, or any instrumentality of a State or political subdivision thereof, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any person, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient and that operates an education program or activity that receives such assistance, including any subunit, successor, assignee, or transferee thereof.
Recipient
means any State or political subdivision thereof, or any instrumentality of a State or political subdivision thereof, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any person, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient and that operates an education program or activity that receives such assistance, including any subunit, successor, assignee, or transferee thereof.
Reviewing authority means that component of the Department delegated authority to review the decisions of hearing officers in cases arising under these Title IX regulations.
Reviewing authority
means that component of the Department delegated authority to review the decisions of hearing officers in cases arising under these Title IX regulations.
Secretary means Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means Secretary of the Treasury.
Student means a person who has gained admission.
Student
means a person who has gained admission.
Title IX means Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-318, 86 Stat. 235, 373 (codified as amended at 20 U.S.C. 1681-1688) (except sections 904 and 906 thereof), as amended by section 3 of Public Law 93-568, 88 Stat. 1855, by section 412 of the Education Amendments of 1976, Public Law 94-482, 90 Stat. 2234, and by Section 3 of Public Law 100-259, 102 Stat. 28, 28-29 (20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688).
Title IX
means Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-318, 86 Stat. 235, 373 (codified as amended at 20 U.S.C. 1681-1688) (except sections 904 and 906 thereof), as amended by section 3 of Public Law 93-568, 88 Stat. 1855, by section 412 of the Education Amendments of 1976, Public Law 94-482, 90 Stat. 2234, and by Section 3 of Public Law 100-259, 102 Stat. 28, 28-29 (20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688).
Title IX regulations means the provisions set forth at §§ 28.100 through 28.635.
Title IX regulations
means the provisions set forth at §§ 28.100 through 28.635.
Transition plan means a plan subject to the approval of the Secretary of Education pursuant to section 901(a)(2) of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681(a)(2), under which an educational institution operates in making the transition from being an educational institution that admits only students of one sex to being one that admits students of both sexes without discrimination.
Transition plan
means a plan subject to the approval of the Secretary of Education pursuant to section 901(a)(2) of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681(a)(2), under which an educational institution operates in making the transition from being an educational institution that admits only students of one sex to being one that admits students of both sexes without discrimination.
[[65 FR 52865, 52881, 52882, Aug. 30, 2000]]

§ 28.110   Remedial and affirmative action and self-evaluation.

(a) Remedial action. If the designated agency official finds that a recipient has discriminated against persons on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, such recipient shall take such remedial action as the designated agency official deems necessary to overcome the effects of such discrimination.
Remedial action.
If the designated agency official finds that a recipient has discriminated against persons on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, such recipient shall take such remedial action as the designated agency official deems necessary to overcome the effects of such discrimination.
(b) Affirmative action. In the absence of a finding of discrimination on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, a recipient may take affirmative action consistent with law to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation therein by persons of a particular sex. Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be interpreted to alter any affirmative action obligations that a recipient may have under Executive Order 11246, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339; as amended by Executive Order 11375, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; as amended by Executive Order 11478, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 803; as amended by Executive Order 12086, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230; as amended by Executive Order 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264.
Affirmative action.
In the absence of a finding of discrimination on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, a recipient may take affirmative action consistent with law to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation therein by persons of a particular sex. Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be interpreted to alter any affirmative action obligations that a recipient may have under Executive Order 11246, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339; as amended by Executive Order 11375, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; as amended by Executive Order 11478, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 803; as amended by Executive Order 12086, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230; as amended by Executive Order 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264.
(c) Self-evaluation. Each recipient education institution shall, within one year of September 29, 2000:
Self-evaluation.
Each recipient education institution shall, within one year of September 29, 2000:
(1) Evaluate, in terms of the requirements of these Title IX regulations, its current policies and practices and the effects thereof concerning admission of students, treatment of students, and employment of both academic and non-academic personnel working in connection with the recipient's education program or activity;
(2) Modify any of these policies and practices that do not or may not meet the requirements of these Title IX regulations; and
(3) Take appropriate remedial steps to eliminate the effects of any discrimination that resulted or may have resulted from adherence to these policies and practices.
(d) Availability of self-evaluation and related materials. Recipients shall maintain on file for at least three years following completion of the evaluation required under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall provide to the designated agency official upon request, a description of any modifications made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section and of any remedial steps taken pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
Availability of self-evaluation and related materials.
Recipients shall maintain on file for at least three years following completion of the evaluation required under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall provide to the designated agency official upon request, a description of any modifications made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section and of any remedial steps taken pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

§ 28.115   Assurance required.

(a) General. Either at the application stage or the award stage, Federal agencies must ensure that applications for Federal financial assistance or awards of Federal financial assistance contain, be accompanied by, or be covered by a specifically identified assurance from the applicant or recipient, satisfactory to the designated agency official, that each education program or activity operated by the applicant or recipient and to which these Title IX regulations apply will be operated in compliance with these Title IX regulations. An assurance of compliance with these Title IX regulations shall not be satisfactory to the designated agency official if the applicant or recipient to whom such assurance applies fails to commit itself to take whatever remedial action is necessary in accordance with § 28.110(a) to eliminate existing discrimination on the basis of sex or to eliminate the effects of past discrimination whether occurring prior to or subsequent to the submission to the designated agency official of such assurance.
General.
Either at the application stage or the award stage, Federal agencies must ensure that applications for Federal financial assistance or awards of Federal financial assistance contain, be accompanied by, or be covered by a specifically identified assurance from the applicant or recipient, satisfactory to the designated agency official, that each education program or activity operated by the applicant or recipient and to which these Title IX regulations apply will be operated in compliance with these Title IX regulations. An assurance of compliance with these Title IX regulations shall not be satisfactory to the designated agency official if the applicant or recipient to whom such assurance applies fails to commit itself to take whatever remedial action is necessary in accordance with § 28.110(a) to eliminate existing discrimination on the basis of sex or to eliminate the effects of past discrimination whether occurring prior to or subsequent to the submission to the designated agency official of such assurance.
(b) Duration of obligation. (1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide real property or structures thereon, such assurance shall obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used to provide an education program or activity.
Duration of obligation.
(1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide real property or structures thereon, such assurance shall obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used to provide an education program or activity.
(2) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide personal property, such assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which it retains ownership or possession of the property.
(3) In all other cases such assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended.
(c) Form. (1) The assurances required by paragraph (a) of this section, which may be included as part of a document that addresses other assurances or obligations, shall include that the applicant or recipient will comply with all applicable Federal statutes relating to nondiscrimination. These include but are not limited to: Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683, 1685-1688).
Form.
(1) The assurances required by paragraph (a) of this section, which may be included as part of a document that addresses other assurances or obligations, shall include that the applicant or recipient will comply with all applicable Federal statutes relating to nondiscrimination. These include but are not limited to: Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683, 1685-1688).
(2) The designated agency official will specify the extent to which such assurances will be required of the applicant's or recipient's subgrantees, contractors, subcontractors, transferees, or successors in interest.

§ 28.120   Transfers of property.

If a recipient sells or otherwise transfers property financed in whole or in part with Federal financial assistance to a transferee that operates any education program or activity, and the Federal share of the fair market value of the property is not upon such sale or transfer properly accounted for to the Federal Government, both the transferor and the transferee shall be deemed to be recipients, subject to the provisions of §§ 28.205 through 28.235(a).

§ 28.125   Effect of other requirements.

(a) Effect of other Federal provisions. The obligations imposed by these Title IX regulations are independent of, and do not alter, obligations not to discriminate on the basis of sex imposed by Executive Order 11246, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339; as amended by Executive Order 11375, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; as amended by Executive Order 11478, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 803; as amended by Executive Order 12087, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230; as amended by Executive Order 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264; sections 704 and 855 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 295m, 298b-2); Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.); the Equal Pay Act of 1963 (29 U.S.C. 206); and any other Act of Congress or Federal regulation.
Effect of other Federal provisions.
The obligations imposed by these Title IX regulations are independent of, and do not alter, obligations not to discriminate on the basis of sex imposed by Executive Order 11246, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339; as amended by Executive Order 11375, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; as amended by Executive Order 11478, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 803; as amended by Executive Order 12087, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230; as amended by Executive Order 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264; sections 704 and 855 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 295m, 298b-2); Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e
et seq.
); the Equal Pay Act of 1963 (29 U.S.C. 206); and any other Act of Congress or Federal regulation.
(b) Effect of State or local law or other requirements. The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated by any State or local law or other requirement that would render any applicant or student ineligible, or limit the eligibility of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, to practice any occupation or profession.
Effect of State or local law or other requirements.
The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated by any State or local law or other requirement that would render any applicant or student ineligible, or limit the eligibility of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, to practice any occupation or profession.
(c) Effect of rules or regulations of private organizations. The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated by any rule or regulation of any organization, club, athletic or other league, or association that would render any applicant or student ineligible to participate or limit the eligibility or participation of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, in any education program or activity operated by a recipient and that receives Federal financial assistance.
Effect of rules or regulations of private organizations.
The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated by any rule or regulation of any organization, club, athletic or other league, or association that would render any applicant or student ineligible to participate or limit the eligibility or participation of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, in any education program or activity operated by a recipient and that receives Federal financial assistance.

§ 28.130   Effect of employment opportunities.

The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated because employment opportunities in any occupation or profession are or may be more limited for members of one sex than for members of the other sex.

§ 28.135   Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.

(a) Designation of responsible employee. Each recipient shall designate at least one employee to coordinate its efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under these Title IX regulations, including any investigation of any complaint communicated to such recipient alleging its noncompliance with these Title IX regulations or alleging any actions that would be prohibited by these Title IX regulations. The recipient shall notify all its students and employees of the name, office address, and telephone number of the employee or employees appointed pursuant to this paragraph.
Designation of responsible employee.
Each recipient shall designate at least one employee to coordinate its efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under these Title IX regulations, including any investigation of any complaint communicated to such recipient alleging its noncompliance with these Title IX regulations or alleging any actions that would be prohibited by these Title IX regulations. The recipient shall notify all its students and employees of the name, office address, and telephone number of the employee or employees appointed pursuant to this paragraph.
(b) Complaint procedure of recipient. A recipient shall adopt and publish grievance procedures providing for prompt and equitable resolution of student and employee complaints alleging any action that would be prohibited by these Title IX regulations.
Complaint procedure of recipient.
A recipient shall adopt and publish grievance procedures providing for prompt and equitable resolution of student and employee complaints alleging any action that would be prohibited by these Title IX regulations.

§ 28.140   Dissemination of policy.

(a) Notification of policy. (1) Each recipient shall implement specific and continuing steps to notify applicants for admission and employment, students and parents of elementary and secondary school students, employees, sources of referral of applicants for admission and employment, and all unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient, that it does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the educational programs or activities that it operates, and that it is required by Title IX and these Title IX regulations not to discriminate in such a manner. Such notification shall contain such information, and be made in such manner, as the designated agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title IX and these Title IX regulations, but shall state at least that the requirement not to discriminate in education programs or activities extends to employment therein, and to admission thereto unless §§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply to the recipient, and that inquiries concerning the application of Title IX and these Title IX regulations to such recipient may be referred to the employee designated pursuant to § 28.135, or to the designated agency official.
Notification of policy.
(1) Each recipient shall implement specific and continuing steps to notify applicants for admission and employment, students and parents of elementary and secondary school students, employees, sources of referral of applicants for admission and employment, and all unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient, that it does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the educational programs or activities that it operates, and that it is required by Title IX and these Title IX regulations not to discriminate in such a manner. Such notification shall contain such information, and be made in such manner, as the designated agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title IX and these Title IX regulations, but shall state at least that the requirement not to discriminate in education programs or activities extends to employment therein, and to admission thereto unless §§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply to the recipient, and that inquiries concerning the application of Title IX and these Title IX regulations to such recipient may be referred to the employee designated pursuant to § 28.135, or to the designated agency official.
(2) Each recipient shall make the initial notification required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section within 90 days of September 29, 2000 or of the date these Title IX regulations first apply to such recipient, whichever comes later, which notification shall include publication in:
(i) Newspapers and magazines operated by such recipient or by student, alumnae, or alumni groups for or in connection with such recipient; and
(ii) Memoranda or other written communications distributed to every student and employee of such recipient.
(b) Publications. (1) Each recipient shall prominently include a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section in each announcement, bulletin, catalog, or application form that it makes available to any person of a type, described in paragraph (a) of this section, or which is otherwise used in connection with the recruitment of students or employees.
Publications.
(1) Each recipient shall prominently include a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section in each announcement, bulletin, catalog, or application form that it makes available to any person of a type, described in paragraph (a) of this section, or which is otherwise used in connection with the recruitment of students or employees.
(2) A recipient shall not use or distribute a publication of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that suggests, by text or illustration, that such recipient treats applicants, students, or employees differently on the basis of sex except as such treatment is permitted by these Title IX regulations.
(c) Distribution. Each recipient shall distribute without discrimination on the basis of sex each publication described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and shall apprise each of its admission and employment recruitment representatives of the policy of nondiscrimination described in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall require such representatives to adhere to such policy.
Distribution.
Each recipient shall distribute without discrimination on the basis of sex each publication described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and shall apprise each of its admission and employment recruitment representatives of the policy of nondiscrimination described in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall require such representatives to adhere to such policy.

Subpart B—Coverage


§ 28.200   Application.

Except as provided in §§ 28.205 through 28.235(a), these Title IX regulations apply to every recipient and to each education program or activity operated by such recipient that receives Federal financial assistance.

§ 28.205   Educational institutions and other entities controlled by religious organizations.

(a) Exemption. These Title IX regulations do not apply to any operation of an educational institution or other entity that is controlled by a religious organization to the extent that application of these Title IX regulations would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
Exemption.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to any operation of an educational institution or other entity that is controlled by a religious organization to the extent that application of these Title IX regulations would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
(b) Exemption claims. An educational institution or other entity that wishes to claim the exemption set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall do so by submitting in writing to the designated agency official a statement by the highest-ranking official of the institution, identifying the provisions of these Title IX regulations that conflict with a specific tenet of the religious organization.
Exemption claims.
An educational institution or other entity that wishes to claim the exemption set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall do so by submitting in writing to the designated agency official a statement by the highest-ranking official of the institution, identifying the provisions of these Title IX regulations that conflict with a specific tenet of the religious organization.

§ 28.210   Military and merchant marine educational institutions.

These Title IX regulations do not apply to an educational institution whose primary purpose is the training of individuals for a military service of the United States or for the merchant marine.

§ 28.215   Membership practices of certain organizations.

(a) Social fraternities and sororities. These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of social fraternities and sororities that are exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. 501(a), the active membership of which consists primarily of students in attendance at institutions of higher education.
Social fraternities and sororities.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of social fraternities and sororities that are exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. 501(a), the active membership of which consists primarily of students in attendance at institutions of higher education.
(b) YMCA, YWCA, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls. These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), the Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls.
YMCA, YWCA, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), the Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls.
(c) Voluntary youth service organizations. These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of a voluntary youth service organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. 501(a), and the membership of which has been traditionally limited to members of one sex and principally to persons of less than nineteen years of age.
Voluntary youth service organizations.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of a voluntary youth service organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. 501(a), and the membership of which has been traditionally limited to members of one sex and principally to persons of less than nineteen years of age.

§ 28.220   Admissions.

(a) Admissions to educational institutions prior to June 24, 1973, are not covered by these Title IX regulations.
(b) Administratively separate units. For the purposes only of this section, §§ 28.225 and 28.230, and §§ 28.300 through 28.310, each administratively separate unit shall be deemed to be an educational institution.
Administratively separate units.
For the purposes only of this section, §§ 28.225 and 28.230, and §§ 28.300 through 28.310, each administratively separate unit shall be deemed to be an educational institution.
(c) Application of §§ 28.300 through .310. Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply to each recipient. A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.
Application of §§ 28.300 through .310.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply to each recipient. A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.
(d) Educational institutions. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section as to recipients that are educational institutions, §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply only to institutions of vocational education, professional education, graduate higher education, and public institutions of undergraduate higher education.
Educational institutions.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section as to recipients that are educational institutions, §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply only to institutions of vocational education, professional education, graduate higher education, and public institutions of undergraduate higher education.
(e) Public institutions of undergraduate higher education. §§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply to any public institution of undergraduate higher education that traditionally and continually from its establishment has had a policy of admitting students of only one sex.
Public institutions of undergraduate higher education.
§§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply to any public institution of undergraduate higher education that traditionally and continually from its establishment has had a policy of admitting students of only one sex.

§ 28.225   Educational institutions eligible to submit transition plans.

(a) Application. This section applies to each educational institution to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply that:
Application.
This section applies to each educational institution to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply that:
(1) Admitted students of only one sex as regular students as of June 23, 1972; or
(2) Admitted students of only one sex as regular students as of June 23, 1965, but thereafter admitted, as regular students, students of the sex not admitted prior to June 23, 1965.
(b) Provision for transition plans. An educational institution to which this section applies shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.
Provision for transition plans.
An educational institution to which this section applies shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.

§ 28.230   Transition plans.

(a) Submission of plans. An institution to which § 28.225 applies and that is composed of more than one administratively separate unit may submit either a single transition plan applicable to all such units, or a separate transition plan applicable to each such unit.
Submission of plans.
An institution to which § 28.225 applies and that is composed of more than one administratively separate unit may submit either a single transition plan applicable to all such units, or a separate transition plan applicable to each such unit.
(b) Content of plans. In order to be approved by the Secretary of Education, a transition plan shall:
Content of plans.
In order to be approved by the Secretary of Education, a transition plan shall:
(1) State the name, address, and Federal Interagency Committee on Education Code of the educational institution submitting such plan, the administratively separate units to which the plan is applicable, and the name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom questions concerning the plan may be addressed. The person who submits the plan shall be the chief administrator or president of the institution, or another individual legally authorized to bind the institution to all actions set forth in the plan.
(2) State whether the educational institution or administratively separate unit admits students of both sexes as regular students and, if so, when it began to do so.
(3) Identify and describe with respect to the educational institution or administratively separate unit any obstacles to admitting students without discrimination on the basis of sex.
(4) Describe in detail the steps necessary to eliminate as soon as practicable each obstacle so identified and indicate the schedule for taking these steps and the individual directly responsible for their implementation.
(5) Include estimates of the number of students, by sex, expected to apply for, be admitted to, and enter each class during the period covered by the plan.
(c) Nondiscrimination. No policy or practice of a recipient to which § 28.225 applies shall result in treatment of applicants to or students of such recipient in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310 unless such treatment is necessitated by an obstacle identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and a schedule for eliminating that obstacle has been provided as required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
Nondiscrimination.
No policy or practice of a recipient to which § 28.225 applies shall result in treatment of applicants to or students of such recipient in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310 unless such treatment is necessitated by an obstacle identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and a schedule for eliminating that obstacle has been provided as required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(d) Effects of past exclusion. To overcome the effects of past exclusion of students on the basis of sex, each educational institution to which § 28.225 applies shall include in its transition plan, and shall implement, specific steps designed to encourage individuals of the previously excluded sex to apply for admission to such institution. Such steps shall include instituting recruitment programs that emphasize the institution's commitment to enrolling students of the sex previously excluded.
Effects of past exclusion.
To overcome the effects of past exclusion of students on the basis of sex, each educational institution to which § 28.225 applies shall include in its transition plan, and shall implement, specific steps designed to encourage individuals of the previously excluded sex to apply for admission to such institution. Such steps shall include instituting recruitment programs that emphasize the institution's commitment to enrolling students of the sex previously excluded.

§ 28.235   Statutory amendments.

(a) This section, which applies to all provisions of these Title IX regulations, addresses statutory amendments to Title IX.
(b) These Title IX regulations shall not apply to or preclude:
(1) Any program or activity of the American Legion undertaken in connection with the organization or operation of any Boys State conference, Boys Nation conference, Girls State conference, or Girls Nation conference;
(2) Any program or activity of a secondary school or educational institution specifically for:
(i) The promotion of any Boys State conference, Boys Nation conference, Girls State conference, or Girls Nation conference; or
(ii) The selection of students to attend any such conference;
(3) Father-son or mother-daughter activities at an educational institution or in an education program or activity, but if such activities are provided for students of one sex, opportunities for reasonably comparable activities shall be provided to students of the other sex;
(4) Any scholarship or other financial assistance awarded by an institution of higher education to an individual because such individual has received such award in a single-sex pageant based upon a combination of factors related to the individual's personal appearance, poise, and talent. The pageant, however, must comply with other nondiscrimination provisions of Federal law.
(c) Program or activity or program means:
Program or activity
or
program
means:
(1) All of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:
(i)(A) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(B) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(ii)(A) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(B) A local educational agency (as defined in section 8801 of title 20), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(iii)(A) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(1) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
1
) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(2) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
2
) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
(B) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(iv) Any other entity that is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2)(i) Program or activity does not include any operation of an entity that is controlled by a religious organization if the application of 20 U.S.C. 1681 to such operation would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
Program or activity
does not include any operation of an entity that is controlled by a religious organization if the application of 20 U.S.C. 1681 to such operation would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
(ii) For example, all of the operations of a college, university, or other postsecondary institution, including but not limited to traditional educational operations, faculty and student housing, campus shuttle bus service, campus restaurants, the bookstore, and other commercial activities are part of a “program or activity” subject to these Title IX regulations if the college, university, or other institution receives Federal financial assistance.
(d)(1) Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be construed to require or prohibit any person, or public or private entity, to provide or pay for any benefit or service, including the use of facilities, related to an abortion. Medical procedures, benefits, services, and the use of facilities, necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman or to address complications related to an abortion are not subject to this section.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit a penalty to be imposed on any person or individual because such person or individual is seeking or has received any benefit or service related to a legal abortion. Accordingly, subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, no person shall be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, employment, or other educational program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance because such individual has sought or received, or is seeking, a legal abortion, or any benefit or service related to a legal abortion.

Subpart C—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Admission and Recruitment Prohibited


§ 28.300   Admission.

(a) General. No person shall, on the basis of sex, be denied admission, or be subjected to discrimination in admission, by any recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply, except as provided in §§ 28.225 and 28.230.
General.
No person shall, on the basis of sex, be denied admission, or be subjected to discrimination in admission, by any recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply, except as provided in §§ 28.225 and 28.230.
(b) Specific prohibitions. (1) In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not:
Specific prohibitions.
(1) In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not:
(i) Give preference to one person over another on the basis of sex, by ranking applicants separately on such basis, or otherwise;
(ii) Apply numerical limitations upon the number or proportion of persons of either sex who may be admitted; or
(iii) Otherwise treat one individual differently from another on the basis of sex.
(2) A recipient shall not administer or operate any test or other criterion for admission that has a disproportionately adverse effect on persons on the basis of sex unless the use of such test or criterion is shown to predict validly success in the education program or activity in question and alternative tests or criteria that do not have such a disproportionately adverse effect are shown to be unavailable.
(c) Prohibitions relating to marital or parental status. In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply:
Prohibitions relating to marital or parental status.
In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply:
(1) Shall not apply any rule concerning the actual or potential parental, family, or marital status of a student or applicant that treats persons differently on the basis of sex;
(2) Shall not discriminate against or exclude any person on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom, or establish or follow any rule or practice that so discriminates or excludes;
(3) Subject to § 28.235(d), shall treat disabilities related to pregnancy, childbirth, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disability or physical condition; and
(4) Shall not make pre-admission inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for admission, including whether such applicant is “Miss” or “Mrs.” A recipient may make pre-admission inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for admission, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations.

§ 28.305   Preference in admission.

A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not give preference to applicants for admission, on the basis of attendance at any educational institution or other school or entity that admits as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if the giving of such preference has the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.

§ 28.310   Recruitment.

(a) Nondiscriminatory recruitment. A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and admission of students. A recipient may be required to undertake additional recruitment efforts for one sex as remedial action pursuant to § 28.110(a), and may choose to undertake such efforts as affirmative action pursuant to § 28.110(b).
Nondiscriminatory recruitment.
A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and admission of students. A recipient may be required to undertake additional recruitment efforts for one sex as remedial action pursuant to § 28.110(a), and may choose to undertake such efforts as affirmative action pursuant to § 28.110(b).
(b) Recruitment at certain institutions. A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at educational institutions, schools, or entities that admit as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.
Recruitment at certain institutions.
A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at educational institutions, schools, or entities that admit as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.

Subpart D—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited


§ 28.400   Education programs or activities.

(a) General. Except as provided elsewhere in these Title IX regulations, no person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other education program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance. Sections 28.400 through 28.455 do not apply to actions of a recipient in connection with admission of its students to an education program or activity of a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply, or an entity, not a recipient, to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 would not apply if the entity were a recipient.
General.
Except as provided elsewhere in these Title IX regulations, no person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other education program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance. Sections 28.400 through 28.455 do not apply to actions of a recipient in connection with admission of its students to an education program or activity of a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply, or an entity, not a recipient, to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 would not apply if the entity were a recipient.
(b) Specific prohibitions. Except as provided in §§ 28.400 through 28.455, in providing any aid, benefit, or service to a student, a recipient shall not, on the basis of sex:
Specific prohibitions.
Except as provided in §§ 28.400 through 28.455, in providing any aid, benefit, or service to a student, a recipient shall not, on the basis of sex:
(1) Treat one person differently from another in determining whether such person satisfies any requirement or condition for the provision of such aid, benefit, or service;
(2) Provide different aid, benefits, or services or provide aid, benefits, or services in a different manner;
(3) Deny any person any such aid, benefit, or service;
(4) Subject any person to separate or different rules of behavior, sanctions, or other treatment;
(5) Apply any rule concerning the domicile or residence of a student or applicant, including eligibility for in-state fees and tuition;
(6) Aid or perpetuate discrimination against any person by providing significant assistance to any agency, organization, or person that discriminates on the basis of sex in providing any aid, benefit, or service to students or employees;
(7) Otherwise limit any person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity.
(c) Assistance administered by a recipient educational institution to study at a foreign institution. A recipient educational institution may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other awards established by foreign or domestic wills, trusts, or similar legal instruments, or by acts of foreign governments and restricted to members of one sex, that are designed to provide opportunities to study abroad, and that are awarded to students who are already matriculating at or who are graduates of the recipient institution; Provided, that a recipient educational institution that administers or assists in the administration of such scholarships, fellowships, or other awards that are restricted to members of one sex provides, or otherwise makes available, reasonable opportunities for similar studies for members of the other sex. Such opportunities may be derived from either domestic or foreign sources.
Assistance administered by a recipient educational institution to study at a foreign institution.
A recipient educational institution may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other awards established by foreign or domestic wills, trusts, or similar legal instruments, or by acts of foreign governments and restricted to members of one sex, that are designed to provide opportunities to study abroad, and that are awarded to students who are already matriculating at or who are graduates of the recipient institution;
Provided,
that a recipient educational institution that administers or assists in the administration of such scholarships, fellowships, or other awards that are restricted to members of one sex provides, or otherwise makes available, reasonable opportunities for similar studies for members of the other sex. Such opportunities may be derived from either domestic or foreign sources.
(d) Aids, benefits or services not provided by recipient. (1) This paragraph (d) applies to any recipient that requires participation by any applicant, student, or employee in any education program or activity not operated wholly by such recipient, or that facilitates, permits, or considers such participation as part of or equivalent to an education program or activity operated by such recipient, including participation in educational consortia and cooperative employment and student-teaching assignments.
Aids, benefits or services not provided by recipient.
(1) This paragraph (d) applies to any recipient that requires participation by any applicant, student, or employee in any education program or activity not operated wholly by such recipient, or that facilitates, permits, or considers such participation as part of or equivalent to an education program or activity operated by such recipient, including participation in educational consortia and cooperative employment and student-teaching assignments.
(2) Such recipient:
(i) Shall develop and implement a procedure designed to assure itself that the operator or sponsor of such other education program or activity takes no action affecting any applicant, student, or employee of such recipient that these Title IX regulations would prohibit such recipient from taking; and
(ii) Shall not facilitate, require, permit, or consider such participation if such action occurs.

§ 28.405   Housing.

(a) Generally. A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, apply different rules or regulations, impose different fees or requirements, or offer different services or benefits related to housing, except as provided in this section (including housing provided only to married students).
Generally.
A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, apply different rules or regulations, impose different fees or requirements, or offer different services or benefits related to housing, except as provided in this section (including housing provided only to married students).
(b) Housing provided by recipient. (1) A recipient may provide separate housing on the basis of sex.
Housing provided by recipient.
(1) A recipient may provide separate housing on the basis of sex.
(2) Housing provided by a recipient to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, shall be as a whole:
(i) Proportionate in quantity to the number of students of that sex applying for such housing; and
(ii) Comparable in quality and cost to the student.
(c) Other housing. (1) A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, administer different policies or practices concerning occupancy by its students of housing other than that provided by such recipient.
Other housing.
(1) A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, administer different policies or practices concerning occupancy by its students of housing other than that provided by such recipient.
(2)(i) A recipient which, through solicitation, listing, approval of housing, or otherwise, assists any agency, organization, or person in making housing available to any of its students, shall take such reasonable action as may be necessary to assure itself that such housing as is provided to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, is as a whole:
(A) Proportionate in quantity; and
(B) Comparable in quality and cost to the student.
(ii) A recipient may render such assistance to any agency, organization, or person that provides all or part of such housing to students of only one sex.

§ 28.410   Comparable facilities.

A recipient may provide separate toilet, locker room, and shower facilities on the basis of sex, but such facilities provided for students of one sex shall be comparable to such facilities provided for students of the other sex.

§ 28.415   Access to course offerings.

(a) A recipient shall not provide any course or otherwise carry out any of its education program or activity separately on the basis of sex, or require or refuse participation therein by any of its students on such basis, including health, physical education, industrial, business, vocational, technical, home economics, music, and adult education courses.
(b)(1) With respect to classes and activities in physical education at the elementary school level, the recipient shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from September 29, 2000. With respect to physical education classes and activities at the secondary and post-secondary levels, the recipient shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from September 29, 2000.
(2) This section does not prohibit grouping of students in physical education classes and activities by ability as assessed by objective standards of individual performance developed and applied without regard to sex.
(3) This section does not prohibit separation of students by sex within physical education classes or activities during participation in wrestling, boxing, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball, and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
(4) Where use of a single standard of measuring skill or progress in a physical education class has an adverse effect on members of one sex, the recipient shall use appropriate standards that do not have such effect.
(5) Portions of classes in elementary and secondary schools, or portions of education programs or activities, that deal exclusively with human sexuality may be conducted in separate sessions for boys and girls.
(6) Recipients may make requirements based on vocal range or quality that may result in a chorus or choruses of one or predominantly one sex.

§ 28.420   Access to schools operated by LEAs.

A recipient that is a local educational agency shall not, on the basis of sex, exclude any person from admission to:
(a) Any institution of vocational education operated by such recipient; or
(b) Any other school or educational unit operated by such recipient, unless such recipient otherwise makes available to such person, pursuant to the same policies and criteria of admission, courses, services, and facilities comparable to each course, service, and facility offered in or through such schools.

§ 28.425   Counseling and use of appraisal and counseling materials.

(a) Counseling. A recipient shall not discriminate against any person on the basis of sex in the counseling or guidance of students or applicants for admission.
Counseling.
A recipient shall not discriminate against any person on the basis of sex in the counseling or guidance of students or applicants for admission.
(b) Use of appraisal and counseling materials. A recipient that uses testing or other materials for appraising or counseling students shall not use different materials for students on the basis of their sex or use materials that permit or require different treatment of students on such basis unless such different materials cover the same occupations and interest areas and the use of such different materials is shown to be essential to eliminate sex bias. Recipients shall develop and use internal procedures for ensuring that such materials do not discriminate on the basis of sex. Where the use of a counseling test or other instrument results in a substantially disproportionate number of members of one sex in any particular course of study or classification, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination in the instrument or its application.
Use of appraisal and counseling materials.
A recipient that uses testing or other materials for appraising or counseling students shall not use different materials for students on the basis of their sex or use materials that permit or require different treatment of students on such basis unless such different materials cover the same occupations and interest areas and the use of such different materials is shown to be essential to eliminate sex bias. Recipients shall develop and use internal procedures for ensuring that such materials do not discriminate on the basis of sex. Where the use of a counseling test or other instrument results in a substantially disproportionate number of members of one sex in any particular course of study or classification, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination in the instrument or its application.
(c) Disproportion in classes. Where a recipient finds that a particular class contains a substantially disproportionate number of individuals of one sex, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination on the basis of sex in counseling or appraisal materials or by counselors.
Disproportion in classes.
Where a recipient finds that a particular class contains a substantially disproportionate number of individuals of one sex, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination on the basis of sex in counseling or appraisal materials or by counselors.

§ 28.430   Financial assistance.

(a) General. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, in providing financial assistance to any of its students, a recipient shall not:
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, in providing financial assistance to any of its students, a recipient shall not:
(1) On the basis of sex, provide different amounts or types of such assistance, limit eligibility for such assistance that is of any particular type or source, apply different criteria, or otherwise discriminate;
(2) Through solicitation, listing, approval, provision of facilities, or other services, assist any foundation, trust, agency, organization, or person that provides assistance to any of such recipient's students in a manner that discriminates on the basis of sex; or
(3) Apply any rule or assist in application of any rule concerning eligibility for such assistance that treats persons of one sex differently from persons of the other sex with regard to marital or parental status.
(b) Financial aid established by certain legal instruments. (1) A recipient may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other forms of financial assistance established pursuant to domestic or foreign wills, trusts, bequests, or similar legal instruments or by acts of a foreign government that require that awards be made to members of a particular sex specified therein; Provided, that the overall effect of the award of such sex-restricted scholarships, fellowships, and other forms of financial assistance does not discriminate on the basis of sex.
Financial aid established by certain legal instruments.
(1) A recipient may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other forms of financial assistance established pursuant to domestic or foreign wills, trusts, bequests, or similar legal instruments or by acts of a foreign government that require that awards be made to members of a particular sex specified therein;
Provided,
that the overall effect of the award of such sex-restricted scholarships, fellowships, and other forms of financial assistance does not discriminate on the basis of sex.
(2) To ensure nondiscriminatory awards of assistance as required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, recipients shall develop and use procedures under which:
(i) Students are selected for award of financial assistance on the basis of nondiscriminatory criteria and not on the basis of availability of funds restricted to members of a particular sex;
(ii) An appropriate sex-restricted scholarship, fellowship, or other form of financial assistance is allocated to each student selected under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iii) No student is denied the award for which he or she was selected under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section because of the absence of a scholarship, fellowship, or other form of financial assistance designated for a member of that student's sex.
(c) Athletic scholarships. (1) To the extent that a recipient awards athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid, it must provide reasonable opportunities for such awards for members of each sex in proportion to the number of students of each sex participating in interscholastic or intercollegiate athletics.
Athletic scholarships.
(1) To the extent that a recipient awards athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid, it must provide reasonable opportunities for such awards for members of each sex in proportion to the number of students of each sex participating in interscholastic or intercollegiate athletics.
(2) A recipient may provide separate athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid for members of each sex as part of separate athletic teams for members of each sex to the extent consistent with this paragraph (c) and § 28.450.

§ 28.435   Employment assistance to students.

(a) Assistance by recipient in making available outside employment. A recipient that assists any agency, organization, or person in making employment available to any of its students:
Assistance by recipient in making available outside employment.
A recipient that assists any agency, organization, or person in making employment available to any of its students:
(1) Shall assure itself that such employment is made available without discrimination on the basis of sex; and
(2) Shall not render such services to any agency, organization, or person that discriminates on the basis of sex in its employment practices.
(b) Employment of students by recipients. A recipient that employs any of its students shall not do so in a manner that violates §§ 28.500 through 28.550.
Employment of students by recipients.
A recipient that employs any of its students shall not do so in a manner that violates §§ 28.500 through 28.550.

§ 28.440   Health and insurance benefits and services.

Subject to § 28.235(d), in providing a medical, hospital, accident, or life insurance benefit, service, policy, or plan to any of its students, a recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex, or provide such benefit, service, policy, or plan in a manner that would violate §§ 28.500 through 28.550 if it were provided to employees of the recipient. This section shall not prohibit a recipient from providing any benefit or service that may be used by a different proportion of students of one sex than of the other, including family planning services. However, any recipient that provides full coverage health service shall provide gynecological care.

§ 28.445   Marital or parental status.

(a) Status generally. A recipient shall not apply any rule concerning a student's actual or potential parental, family, or marital status that treats students differently on the basis of sex.
Status generally.
A recipient shall not apply any rule concerning a student's actual or potential parental, family, or marital status that treats students differently on the basis of sex.
(b) Pregnancy and related conditions. (1) A recipient shall not discriminate against any student, or exclude any student from its education program or activity, including any class or extracurricular activity, on the basis of such student's pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom, unless the student requests voluntarily to participate in a separate portion of the program or activity of the recipient.
Pregnancy and related conditions.
(1) A recipient shall not discriminate against any student, or exclude any student from its education program or activity, including any class or extracurricular activity, on the basis of such student's pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom, unless the student requests voluntarily to participate in a separate portion of the program or activity of the recipient.
(2) A recipient may require such a student to obtain the certification of a physician that the student is physically and emotionally able to continue participation as long as such a certification is required of all students for other physical or emotional conditions requiring the attention of a physician.
(3) A recipient that operates a portion of its education program or activity separately for pregnant students, admittance to which is completely voluntary on the part of the student as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall ensure that the separate portion is comparable to that offered to non-pregnant students.
(4) Subject to § 28.235(d), a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disability with respect to any medical or hospital benefit, service, plan, or policy that such recipient administers, operates, offers, or participates in with respect to students admitted to the recipient's educational program or activity.
(5) In the case of a recipient that does not maintain a leave policy for its students, or in the case of a student who does not otherwise qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence for as long a period of time as is deemed medically necessary by the student's physician, at the conclusion of which the student shall be reinstated to the status that she held when the leave began.

§ 28.450   Athletics.

(a) General. No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, be treated differently from another person, or otherwise be discriminated against in any interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics offered by a recipient, and no recipient shall provide any such athletics separately on such basis.
General.
No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, be treated differently from another person, or otherwise be discriminated against in any interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics offered by a recipient, and no recipient shall provide any such athletics separately on such basis.
(b) Separate teams. Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient may operate or sponsor separate teams for members of each sex where selection for such teams is based upon competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport. However, where a recipient operates or sponsors a team in a particular sport for members of one sex but operates or sponsors no such team for members of the other sex, and athletic opportunities for members of that sex have previously been limited, members of the excluded sex must be allowed to try out for the team offered unless the sport involved is a contact sport. For the purposes of these Title IX regulations, contact sports include boxing, wrestling, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball, and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
Separate teams.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient may operate or sponsor separate teams for members of each sex where selection for such teams is based upon competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport. However, where a recipient operates or sponsors a team in a particular sport for members of one sex but operates or sponsors no such team for members of the other sex, and athletic opportunities for members of that sex have previously been limited, members of the excluded sex must be allowed to try out for the team offered unless the sport involved is a contact sport. For the purposes of these Title IX regulations, contact sports include boxing, wrestling, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball, and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
(c) Equal opportunity. (1) A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics shall provide equal athletic opportunity for members of both sexes. In determining whether equal opportunities are available, the designated agency official will consider, among other factors:
Equal opportunity.
(1) A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics shall provide equal athletic opportunity for members of both sexes. In determining whether equal opportunities are available, the designated agency official will consider, among other factors:
(i) Whether the selection of sports and levels of competition effectively accommodate the interests and abilities of members of both sexes;
(ii) The provision of equipment and supplies;
(iii) Scheduling of games and practice time;
(iv) Travel and per diem allowance;
(v) Opportunity to receive coaching and academic tutoring;
(vi) Assignment and compensation of coaches and tutors;
(vii) Provision of locker rooms, practice, and competitive facilities;
(viii) Provision of medical and training facilities and services;
(ix) Provision of housing and dining facilities and services;
(x) Publicity.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unequal aggregate expenditures for members of each sex or unequal expenditures for male and female teams if a recipient operates or sponsors separate teams will not constitute noncompliance with this section, but the designated agency official may consider the failure to provide necessary funds for teams for one sex in assessing equality of opportunity for members of each sex.
(d) Adjustment period. A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics at the elementary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from September 29, 2000. A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics at the secondary or postsecondary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from September 29, 2000.
Adjustment period.
A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics at the elementary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from September 29, 2000. A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics at the secondary or postsecondary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from September 29, 2000.

§ 28.455   Textbooks and curricular material.

Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be interpreted as requiring or prohibiting or abridging in any way the use of particular textbooks or curricular materials.

Subpart E—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Employment in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited


§ 28.500   Employment.

(a) General. (1) No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in employment, or recruitment, consideration, or selection therefor, whether full-time or part-time, under any education program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance.
General.
(1) No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in employment, or recruitment, consideration, or selection therefor, whether full-time or part-time, under any education program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance.
(2) A recipient shall make all employment decisions in any education program or activity operated by such recipient in a nondiscriminatory manner and shall not limit, segregate, or classify applicants or employees in any way that could adversely affect any applicant's or employee's employment opportunities or status because of sex.
(3) A recipient shall not enter into any contractual or other relationship which directly or indirectly has the effect of subjecting employees or students to discrimination prohibited by §§ 28.500 through 28.550, including relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions, and with organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient.
(4) A recipient shall not grant preferences to applicants for employment on the basis of attendance at any educational institution or entity that admits as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if the giving of such preferences has the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of these Title IX regulations.
(b) Application. The provisions of §§ 28.500 through 28.550 apply to:
Application.
The provisions of §§ 28.500 through 28.550 apply to:
(1) Recruitment, advertising, and the process of application for employment;
(2) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, consideration for and award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, application of nepotism policies, right of return from layoff, and rehiring;
(3) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation, and changes in compensation;
(4) Job assignments, classifications, and structure, including position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists;
(5) The terms of any collective bargaining agreement;
(6) Granting and return from leaves of absence, leave for pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, leave for persons of either sex to care for children or dependents, or any other leave;
(7) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the recipient;
(8) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, selection for tuition assistance, selection for sabbaticals and leaves of absence to pursue training;
(9) Employer-sponsored activities, including social or recreational programs; and
(10) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment.

§ 28.505   Employment criteria.

A recipient shall not administer or operate any test or other criterion for any employment opportunity that has a disproportionately adverse effect on persons on the basis of sex unless:
(a) Use of such test or other criterion is shown to predict validly successful performance in the position in question; and
(b) Alternative tests or criteria for such purpose, which do not have such disproportionately adverse effect, are shown to be unavailable.

§ 28.510   Recruitment.

(a) Nondiscriminatory recruitment and hiring. A recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and hiring of employees. Where a recipient has been found to be presently discriminating on the basis of sex in the recruitment or hiring of employees, or has been found to have so discriminated in the past, the recipient shall recruit members of the sex so discriminated against so as to overcome the effects of such past or present discrimination.
Nondiscriminatory recruitment and hiring.
A recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and hiring of employees. Where a recipient has been found to be presently discriminating on the basis of sex in the recruitment or hiring of employees, or has been found to have so discriminated in the past, the recipient shall recruit members of the sex so discriminated against so as to overcome the effects of such past or present discrimination.
(b) Recruitment patterns. A recipient shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at entities that furnish as applicants only or predominantly members of one sex if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 28.500 through 28.550.
Recruitment patterns.
A recipient shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at entities that furnish as applicants only or predominantly members of one sex if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 28.500 through 28.550.

§ 28.515   Compensation.

A recipient shall not make or enforce any policy or practice that, on the basis of sex:
(a) Makes distinctions in rates of pay or other compensation;
(b) Results in the payment of wages to employees of one sex at a rate less than that paid to employees of the opposite sex for equal work on jobs the performance of which requires equal skill, effort, and responsibility, and that are performed under similar working conditions.

§ 28.520   Job classification and structure.

A recipient shall not:
(a) Classify a job as being for males or for females;
(b) Maintain or establish separate lines of progression, seniority lists, career ladders, or tenure systems based on sex; or
(c) Maintain or establish separate lines of progression, seniority systems, career ladders, or tenure systems for similar jobs, position descriptions, or job requirements that classify persons on the basis of sex, unless sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for the positions in question as set forth in § 28.550.

§ 28.525   Fringe benefits.

(a) “Fringe benefits” defined. For purposes of these Title IX regulations, fringe benefits means: Any medical, hospital, accident, life insurance, or retirement benefit, service, policy or plan, any profit-sharing or bonus plan, leave, and any other benefit or service of employment not subject to the provision of § 28.515.
“Fringe benefits” defined.
For purposes of these Title IX regulations,
fringe benefits
means: Any medical, hospital, accident, life insurance, or retirement benefit, service, policy or plan, any profit-sharing or bonus plan, leave, and any other benefit or service of employment not subject to the provision of § 28.515.
(b) Prohibitions. A recipient shall not:
Prohibitions.
A recipient shall not:
(1) Discriminate on the basis of sex with regard to making fringe benefits available to employees or make fringe benefits available to spouses, families, or dependents of employees differently upon the basis of the employee's sex;
(2) Administer, operate, offer, or participate in a fringe benefit plan that does not provide for equal periodic benefits for members of each sex and for equal contributions to the plan by such recipient for members of each sex; or
(3) Administer, operate, offer, or participate in a pension or retirement plan that establishes different optional or compulsory retirement ages based on sex or that otherwise discriminates in benefits on the basis of sex.

§ 28.530   Marital or parental status.

(a) General. A recipient shall not apply any policy or take any employment action:
General.
A recipient shall not apply any policy or take any employment action:
(1) Concerning the potential marital, parental, or family status of an employee or applicant for employment that treats persons differently on the basis of sex; or
(2) Which is based upon whether an employee or applicant for employment is the head of household or principal wage earner in such employee's or applicant's family unit.
(b) Pregnancy. A recipient shall not discriminate against or exclude from employment any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom.
Pregnancy.
A recipient shall not discriminate against or exclude from employment any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom.
(c) Pregnancy as a temporary disability. Subject to § 28.235(d), a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, recovery therefrom, and any temporary disability resulting therefrom as any other temporary disability for all job-related purposes, including commencement, duration, and extensions of leave, payment of disability income, accrual of seniority and any other benefit or service, and reinstatement, and under any fringe benefit offered to employees by virtue of employment.
Pregnancy as a temporary disability.
Subject to § 28.235(d), a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, recovery therefrom, and any temporary disability resulting therefrom as any other temporary disability for all job-related purposes, including commencement, duration, and extensions of leave, payment of disability income, accrual of seniority and any other benefit or service, and reinstatement, and under any fringe benefit offered to employees by virtue of employment.
(d) Pregnancy leave. In the case of a recipient that does not maintain a leave policy for its employees, or in the case of an employee with insufficient leave or accrued employment time to qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time, at the conclusion of which the employee shall be reinstated to the status that she held when the leave began or to a comparable position, without decrease in rate of compensation or loss of promotional opportunities, or any other right or privilege of employment.
Pregnancy leave.
In the case of a recipient that does not maintain a leave policy for its employees, or in the case of an employee with insufficient leave or accrued employment time to qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time, at the conclusion of which the employee shall be reinstated to the status that she held when the leave began or to a comparable position, without decrease in rate of compensation or loss of promotional opportunities, or any other right or privilege of employment.

§ 28.535   Effect of state or local law or other requirements.

(a) Prohibitory requirements. The obligation to comply with §§ 28.500 through 28.550 is not obviated or alleviated by the existence of any State or local law or other requirement that imposes prohibitions or limits upon employment of members of one sex that are not imposed upon members of the other sex.
Prohibitory requirements.
The obligation to comply with §§ 28.500 through 28.550 is not obviated or alleviated by the existence of any State or local law or other requirement that imposes prohibitions or limits upon employment of members of one sex that are not imposed upon members of the other sex.
(b) Benefits. A recipient that provides any compensation, service, or benefit to members of one sex pursuant to a State or local law or other requirement shall provide the same compensation, service, or benefit to members of the other sex.
Benefits.
A recipient that provides any compensation, service, or benefit to members of one sex pursuant to a State or local law or other requirement shall provide the same compensation, service, or benefit to members of the other sex.

§ 28.540   Advertising.

A recipient shall not in any advertising related to employment indicate preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination based on sex unless sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for the particular job in question.

§ 28.545   Pre-employment inquiries.

(a) Marital status. A recipient shall not make pre-employment inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for employment, including whether such applicant is “Miss” or “Mrs.”
Marital status.
A recipient shall not make pre-employment inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for employment, including whether such applicant is “Miss” or “Mrs.”
(b) Sex. A recipient may make pre-employment inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for employment, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations.
Sex.
A recipient may make pre-employment inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for employment, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations.

§ 28.550   Sex as a bona fide occupational qualification.

A recipient may take action otherwise prohibited by §§ 28.500 through 28.550 provided it is shown that sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for that action, such that consideration of sex with regard to such action is essential to successful operation of the employment function concerned. A recipient shall not take action pursuant to this section that is based upon alleged comparative employment characteristics or stereotyped characterizations of one or the other sex, or upon preference based on sex of the recipient, employees, students, or other persons, but nothing contained in this section shall prevent a recipient from considering an employee's sex in relation to employment in a locker room or toilet facility used only by members of one sex.

Subpart F—Procedures


§ 28.600   Notice of covered programs.

Within 60 days of September 29, 2000, each Federal agency that awards Federal financial assistance shall publish in the Federal Register a notice of the programs covered by these Title IX regulations. Each such Federal agency shall periodically republish the notice of covered programs to reflect changes in covered programs. Copies of this notice also shall be made available upon request to the Federal agency's office that enforces Title IX.
Federal Register
a notice of the programs covered by these Title IX regulations. Each such Federal agency shall periodically republish the notice of covered programs to reflect changes in covered programs. Copies of this notice also shall be made available upon request to the Federal agency's office that enforces Title IX.

§ 28.605   Compliance information.

(a) Cooperation and assistance. The designated agency official shall to the fullest extent practicable seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with these Title IX regulations and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with these Title IX regulations.
Cooperation and assistance.
The designated agency official shall to the fullest extent practicable seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with these Title IX regulations and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with these Title IX regulations.
(b) Compliance reports. Each recipient shall keep such records and submit to the designated agency official (or designee) timely, complete, and accurate compliance reports at such times, and in such form and containing such information, as the designated agency official (or designee) may determine to be necessary to enable the official to ascertain whether the recipient has complied or is complying with these Title IX regulations. In the case of any program under which a primary recipient extends Federal financial assistance to any other recipient, such other recipient shall also submit such compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out its obligations under these Title IX regulations.
Compliance reports.
Each recipient shall keep such records and submit to the designated agency official (or designee) timely, complete, and accurate compliance reports at such times, and in such form and containing such information, as the designated agency official (or designee) may determine to be necessary to enable the official to ascertain whether the recipient has complied or is complying with these Title IX regulations. In the case of any program under which a primary recipient extends Federal financial assistance to any other recipient, such other recipient shall also submit such compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out its obligations under these Title IX regulations.
(c) Access to sources of information. Each recipient shall permit access by the designated agency official (or designee) during normal business hours to such of its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information, and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with these Title IX regulations. Where any information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution or person and this agency, institution or person shall fail or refuse to furnish this information the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information. Asserted considerations of privacy or confidentiality may not operate to bar the Department from evaluating or seeking to enforce compliance with these Title IX regulations. Information of a confidential nature obtained in connection with compliance evaluation or enforcement shall not be disclosed except where necessary in formal enforcement proceedings or where otherwise required by law.
Access to sources of information.
Each recipient shall permit access by the designated agency official (or designee) during normal business hours to such of its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information, and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with these Title IX regulations. Where any information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution or person and this agency, institution or person shall fail or refuse to furnish this information the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information. Asserted considerations of privacy or confidentiality may not operate to bar the Department from evaluating or seeking to enforce compliance with these Title IX regulations. Information of a confidential nature obtained in connection with compliance evaluation or enforcement shall not be disclosed except where necessary in formal enforcement proceedings or where otherwise required by law.
(d) Information to beneficiaries and participants. Each recipient shall make available to participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of these Title IX regulations and their applicability to the program for which the recipient receives Federal financial assistance, and make such information available to them in such manner, as the designated agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title IX and these Title IX regulations.
Information to beneficiaries and participants.
Each recipient shall make available to participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of these Title IX regulations and their applicability to the program for which the recipient receives Federal financial assistance, and make such information available to them in such manner, as the designated agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title IX and these Title IX regulations.
[[65 FR 52882, Aug. 30, 2000]]

§ 28.610   Conduct of investigations.

(a) Periodic compliance reviews. The designated agency official (or designee) shall from time to time review the practices of recipients to determine whether they are complying with these Title IX regulations.
Periodic compliance reviews.
The designated agency official (or designee) shall from time to time review the practices of recipients to determine whether they are complying with these Title IX regulations.
(b) Complaints. Any person who believes himself or herself or any specific class of individuals to be subjected to discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations may by himself or herself or by a representative file with the designated agency official (or designee) a written complaint. A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated agency official (or designee).
Complaints.
Any person who believes himself or herself or any specific class of individuals to be subjected to discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations may by himself or herself or by a representative file with the designated agency official (or designee) a written complaint. A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated agency official (or designee).
(c) Investigations. The designated agency official (or designee) will make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review, report, complaint, or any other information indicates a possible failure to comply with these Title IX regulations. The investigation should include, where appropriate, a review of the pertinent practices and policies of the recipient, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with these Title IX regulations occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the recipient has failed to comply with these Title IX regulations.
Investigations.
The designated agency official (or designee) will make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review, report, complaint, or any other information indicates a possible failure to comply with these Title IX regulations. The investigation should include, where appropriate, a review of the pertinent practices and policies of the recipient, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with these Title IX regulations occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the recipient has failed to comply with these Title IX regulations.
(d) Resolution of matters. (1) If an investigation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section indicates a failure to comply with these Title IX regulations, the designated agency official (or designee) will so inform the recipient and the matter will be resolved by informal means whenever possible. If it has been determined that the matter cannot be resolved by informal means, action will be taken as provided for in § 28.615.
Resolution of matters.
(1) If an investigation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section indicates a failure to comply with these Title IX regulations, the designated agency official (or designee) will so inform the recipient and the matter will be resolved by informal means whenever possible. If it has been determined that the matter cannot be resolved by informal means, action will be taken as provided for in § 28.615.
(2) If an investigation does not warrant action pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section the designated agency official (or designee) will so inform the recipient and the complainant, if any, in writing.
(e) Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited. No recipient or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by Title IX or these Title IX regulations, or because he or she has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under these Title IX regulations. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of these Title IX regulations, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding arising under these Title IX regulations.
Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited.
No recipient or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by Title IX or these Title IX regulations, or because he or she has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under these Title IX regulations. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of these Title IX regulations, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding arising under these Title IX regulations.
[[65 FR 52882, Aug. 30, 2000]]

§ 28.615   Procedure for effecting compliance.

(a) General. If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with these Title IX regulations, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with these Title IX regulations may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance or by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to:
General.
If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with these Title IX regulations, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with these Title IX regulations may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance or by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to:
(1) A reference to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States, or any assurance or other contractual undertaking; and
(2) Any applicable proceeding under State or local law.
(b) Noncompliance with § 28.115. If an applicant fails or refuses to furnish an assurance or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to § 28.115, Federal financial assistance may be refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. The Department shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under paragraph (c) of this section except that the Department shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance is due and payable pursuant to an application therefor approved prior to September 29, 2000.
Noncompliance with § 28.115.
If an applicant fails or refuses to furnish an assurance or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to § 28.115, Federal financial assistance may be refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. The Department shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under paragraph (c) of this section except that the Department shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance is due and payable pursuant to an application therefor approved prior to September 29, 2000.
(c) Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance. (1) No order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance shall become effective until:
Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance.
(1) No order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance shall become effective until:
(i) The designated agency official has advised the applicant or recipient of its failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;
(ii) There has been an express finding on the record, after opportunity for hearing, of a failure by the applicant or recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to these Title IX regulations; and
(iii) The expiration of 30 days after the Secretary has filed with the committee of the House, and the committee of the Senate having legislative jurisdiction over the program involved, a full written report of the circumstances and the grounds for such action.
(2) Any action to suspend or terminate or to refuse to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance shall be limited to the particular political entity, or part thereof, or other applicant or recipient as to whom such a finding has been made and shall be limited in its effect to the particular program, or part thereof, in which such noncompliance has been so found.
(d) Other means authorized by law. (1) No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until:
Other means authorized by law.
(1) No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until:
(i) The designated agency official has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;
(ii) The recipient has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance; and
(iii) The expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the recipient.
(2) During this period of at least 10 days additional efforts shall be made to persuade the recipient to comply with these Title IX regulations and to take such corrective action as may be appropriate.
[[65 FR 52883, Aug. 30, 2000]]

§ 28.620   Hearings.

(a) Opportunity for hearing. Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by § 28.615(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either:
Opportunity for hearing.
Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by § 28.615(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either:
(1) Fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of such notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of the designated agency official that the matter be scheduled for hearing; or
(2) Advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated place and time. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under 20 U.S.C. 1682 and § 28.615(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as may be filed as the record.
(b) Time and place of hearing. Hearings shall be held at the offices of the Department in Washington, DC, at a time fixed by the designated agency official unless the official determines that the convenience of the applicant or recipient or of the Department requires that another place be selected. Hearings shall be held before a hearing officer designated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 556(b).
Time and place of hearing.
Hearings shall be held at the offices of the Department in Washington, DC, at a time fixed by the designated agency official unless the official determines that the convenience of the applicant or recipient or of the Department requires that another place be selected. Hearings shall be held before a hearing officer designated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 556(b).
(c) Right to counsel. In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and the Department shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
Right to counsel.
In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and the Department shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
(d) Procedures, evidence, and record. (1) The hearing, decision, and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in conformity with 5 U.S.C. 554-557 (sections 5-8 of the Administrative Procedure Act), and in accordance with such rules of procedure as are proper (and not inconsistent with this section) relating to the conduct of the hearing, giving of notices subsequent to those provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments and briefs, requests for findings, and other related matters. Both the Department and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the hearing officer at the outset of or during the hearing. Any person (other than a Government employee considered to be on official business) who, having been invited or requested to appear and testify as a witness on the Government's behalf, attends at a time and place scheduled for a hearing provided for by these Title IX regulations, may be reimbursed for his or her travel and actual expenses of attendance in an amount not to exceed the amount payable under the standardized travel regulations to a Government employee traveling on official business.
Procedures, evidence, and record.
(1) The hearing, decision, and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in conformity with 5 U.S.C. 554-557 (sections 5-8 of the Administrative Procedure Act), and in accordance with such rules of procedure as are proper (and not inconsistent with this section) relating to the conduct of the hearing, giving of notices subsequent to those provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments and briefs, requests for findings, and other related matters. Both the Department and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the hearing officer at the outset of or during the hearing. Any person (other than a Government employee considered to be on official business) who, having been invited or requested to appear and testify as a witness on the Government's behalf, attends at a time and place scheduled for a hearing provided for by these Title IX regulations, may be reimbursed for his or her travel and actual expenses of attendance in an amount not to exceed the amount payable under the standardized travel regulations to a Government employee traveling on official business.
(2) Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to these Title IX regulations, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination shall be applied where reasonably necessary by the hearing officer. The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. All decisions shall be based upon the hearing record and written findings shall be made.
(e) Consolidated or Joint Hearings. In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with these Title IX regulations with respect to two or more programs to which these Title IX regulations apply, or noncompliance with these Title IX regulations and the regulations of one or more other Federal departments or agencies issued under Title IX, the designated agency official may, by agreement with such other departments or agencies where applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to such hearings of rules of procedures not inconsistent with these Title IX regulations. Final decisions in such cases, insofar as these Title IX regulations are concerned, shall be made in accordance with § 28.625.
Consolidated or Joint Hearings.
In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with these Title IX regulations with respect to two or more programs to which these Title IX regulations apply, or noncompliance with these Title IX regulations and the regulations of one or more other Federal departments or agencies issued under Title IX, the designated agency official may, by agreement with such other departments or agencies where applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to such hearings of rules of procedures not inconsistent with these Title IX regulations. Final decisions in such cases, insofar as these Title IX regulations are concerned, shall be made in accordance with § 28.625.
[[65 FR 52883, Aug. 30, 2000]]

§ 28.625   Decisions and notices.

(a) Decisions by hearing officers. After a hearing is held by a hearing officer such hearing officer shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including recommended findings and proposed decision to the reviewing authority for a final decision, and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any. Where the initial decision referred to in this paragraph or in paragraph (c) of this section is made by the hearing officer, the applicant or recipient or the counsel for the Department may, within the period provided for in the rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official, file with the reviewing authority exceptions to the initial decision, with the reasons therefor. Upon the filing of such exceptions the reviewing authority shall review the initial decision and issue its own decision thereof including the reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions the initial decision shall constitute the final decision, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.
Decisions by hearing officers.
After a hearing is held by a hearing officer such hearing officer shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including recommended findings and proposed decision to the reviewing authority for a final decision, and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any. Where the initial decision referred to in this paragraph or in paragraph (c) of this section is made by the hearing officer, the applicant or recipient or the counsel for the Department may, within the period provided for in the rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official, file with the reviewing authority exceptions to the initial decision, with the reasons therefor. Upon the filing of such exceptions the reviewing authority shall review the initial decision and issue its own decision thereof including the reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions the initial decision shall constitute the final decision, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) Decisions on record or review by the reviewing authority. Whenever a record is certified to the reviewing authority for decision or it reviews the decision of a hearing officer pursuant to paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with it briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a copy of the final decision of the reviewing authority shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.
Decisions on record or review by the reviewing authority.
Whenever a record is certified to the reviewing authority for decision or it reviews the decision of a hearing officer pursuant to paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with it briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a copy of the final decision of the reviewing authority shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.
(c) Decisions on record where a hearing is waived. Whenever a hearing is waived pursuant to § 28.620, the reviewing authority shall make its final decision on the record or refer the matter to a hearing officer for an initial decision to be made on the record. A copy of such decision shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.
Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.
Whenever a hearing is waived pursuant to § 28.620, the reviewing authority shall make its final decision on the record or refer the matter to a hearing officer for an initial decision to be made on the record. A copy of such decision shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.
(d) Rulings required. Each decision of a hearing officer or reviewing authority shall set forth a ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to these Title IX regulations with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.
Rulings required.
Each decision of a hearing officer or reviewing authority shall set forth a ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to these Title IX regulations with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.
(e) Review in certain cases by the Secretary of the Treasury. If the Secretary has not personally made the final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, a recipient or applicant or the counsel for the Department may request the Secretary to review a decision of the reviewing authority in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. Such review is not a matter of right and shall be granted only where the Secretary determines there are special and important reasons therefor. The Secretary may grant or deny such request, in whole or in part. The Secretary also may review such a decision upon his own motion in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. In the absence of a review under this paragraph (e), a final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section shall become the final decision of the Department when the Secretary transmits it as such to congressional committees with the report required under 20 U.S.C. 1682. Failure of an applicant or recipient to file an exception with the reviewing authority or to request review under this paragraph (e) shall not be deemed a failure to exhaust administrative remedies for the purpose of obtaining judicial review.
Review in certain cases by the Secretary of the Treasury.
If the Secretary has not personally made the final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, a recipient or applicant or the counsel for the Department may request the Secretary to review a decision of the reviewing authority in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. Such review is not a matter of right and shall be granted only where the Secretary determines there are special and important reasons therefor. The Secretary may grant or deny such request, in whole or in part. The Secretary also may review such a decision upon his own motion in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. In the absence of a review under this paragraph (e), a final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section shall become the final decision of the Department when the Secretary transmits it as such to congressional committees with the report required under 20 U.S.C. 1682. Failure of an applicant or recipient to file an exception with the reviewing authority or to request review under this paragraph (e) shall not be deemed a failure to exhaust administrative remedies for the purpose of obtaining judicial review.
(f) Content of orders. The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which these Title IX regulations apply, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of Title IX and these Title IX regulations, including provisions designed to assure that no Federal financial assistance to which these Title IX regulations apply will thereafter be extended under such law or laws to the applicant or recipient determined by such decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it pursuant to these Title IX regulations, or to have otherwise failed to comply with these Title IX regulations unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the designated agency official that it will fully comply with these Title IX regulations.
Content of orders.
The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which these Title IX regulations apply, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of Title IX and these Title IX regulations, including provisions designed to assure that no Federal financial assistance to which these Title IX regulations apply will thereafter be extended under such law or laws to the applicant or recipient determined by such decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it pursuant to these Title IX regulations, or to have otherwise failed to comply with these Title IX regulations unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the designated agency official that it will fully comply with these Title IX regulations.
(g) Post-termination proceedings. (1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with these Title IX regulations and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with these Title IX regulations. An elementary or secondary school or school system that is unable to file an assurance of compliance shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it files a court order or a plan for desegregation that meets the applicable requirements and provides reasonable assurance that it will comply with the court order or plan.
Post-termination proceedings.
(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with these Title IX regulations and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with these Title IX regulations. An elementary or secondary school or school system that is unable to file an assurance of compliance shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it files a court order or a plan for desegregation that meets the applicable requirements and provides reasonable assurance that it will comply with the court order or plan.
(2) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the designated agency official to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the designated agency official determines that those requirements have been satisfied, the official shall restore such eligibility.
(3) If the designated agency official denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes such official to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. The applicant or recipient will be restored to such eligibility if it proves at such hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph (g) are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.
[[65 FR 52884, Aug. 30, 2000]]

§ 28.630   Judicial review.

Action taken pursuant to 20 U.S.C. 1682 is subject to judicial review as provided in 20 U.S.C. 1683.
[[65 FR 52885, Aug. 30, 2000]]

§ 28.635   Forms and instructions; coordination.

(a) Forms and instructions. The designated agency official shall issue and promptly make available to interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating these Title IX regulations.
Forms and instructions.
The designated agency official shall issue and promptly make available to interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating these Title IX regulations.
(b) Supervision and coordination. The designated agency official may from time to time assign to officials of the Department, or to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of such departments or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of Title IX and these Title IX regulations (other than responsibility for review as provided in § 28.625(e)), including the achievements of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within the Department and within the Executive Branch of the Government in the application of Title IX and these Title IX regulations to similar programs and in similar situations. Any action taken, determination made, or requirement imposed by an official of another department or agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this section shall have the same effect as though such action had been taken by the designated official of this Department.
Supervision and coordination.
The designated agency official may from time to time assign to officials of the Department, or to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of such departments or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of Title IX and these Title IX regulations (other than responsibility for review as provided in § 28.625(e)), including the achievements of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within the Department and within the Executive Branch of the Government in the application of Title IX and these Title IX regulations to similar programs and in similar situations. Any action taken, determination made, or requirement imposed by an official of another department or agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this section shall have the same effect as though such action had been taken by the designated official of this Department.
[[65 FR 52885, Aug. 30, 2000]]

PART 29—FEDERAL BENEFIT PAYMENTS UNDER CERTAIN DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA RETIREMENT PROGRAMS

[Authority:Subtitle A and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 712-731 and 786-787; as amended.]
Authority:
Subtitle A and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 712-731 and 786-787; as amended.
[Source:65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 29.101   Purpose and scope.

(a) This part contains the Department's regulations implementing Subtitle A, Subchapter B of Chapter 4 of Subtitle C, and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, 756-759, enacted August 5, 1997, as amended.
(b) This subpart contains general information to assist in the use of this part including—
(1) Information about related regulations (§ 29.102),
(2) Definitions of terms used in more than one subpart of this part (§ 29.103), and
(3) The Department's general rules and procedures, applicable to the retirement plans for District of Columbia teachers, police and fire fighters, and judges that concern the administration of Federal Benefit Payments (§§ 29.104-29.106).
(c) This part applies to Federal Benefit Payments.
(d) This part does not apply to the program of annuities, other retirement benefits, or medical benefits for members and officers, retired members and officers, and survivors thereof, of the United States Park Police force, the United States Secret Service, or the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division.
(e) This part does not apply to the District of Columbia replacement plan, which covers payments based on service accrued after June 30, 1997, pursuant to section 11042 of the Act.
[[65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 60004, Oct. 14, 2005]]

§ 29.102   Related regulations.

(a) This part contains the following subparts:
(1) General Provisions (Subpart A);
(2) Coordination with the District Government (Subpart B);
(3) Split Benefits (Subpart C); 
1
1
1 The effective date for section 29.102(a)(3) and Subpart C, originally scheduled for March 31, 2001, has been postponed indefinitely.
1
The effective date for section 29.102(a)(3) and Subpart C, originally scheduled for March 31, 2001, has been postponed indefinitely.
(4) Claims and Appeals Procedures (Subpart D); and
(5) Debt Collection and Waivers of Collection (Subpart E).
(b) Part 581 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contains information about garnishment of certain Federal payments to enforce awards of alimony or child support.
(c) Part 831 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contains information about benefits under the Civil Service Retirement System.
(d) Part 870 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contains information about benefits under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program.
(e) Part 890 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contains information about benefits under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
(f) Parts 835 and 845 and subparts M, N, and R of part 831 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contain information about debt collection and waiver of collection under the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees Retirement System.
[[65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000; 66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001]]

§ 29.103   Definitions.

(a) In this part—
Act means Subtitle A, Subchapter B of Chapter 4 of Subtitle C, and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, 756-759, as amended.
Act
means Subtitle A, Subchapter B of Chapter 4 of Subtitle C, and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, 756-759, as amended.
Benefits Administrator means:
Benefits Administrator
means:
(1) For the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan under section 11041(a) of the Act:
(i) During the interim benefits administration period, the District of Columbia government; or
(ii) After the end of the interim benefits administration period:
(A) The Trustee selected by the Department under sections 11035(a) or 11085(a) of the Act;
(B) The Department, if a determination is made under sections 11035(d) or 11085(d) of the Act that, in the interest of economy and efficiency, the function of the Trustee shall be performed by the Department rather than the Trustee; or
(C) Any other agent of the Department designated to make initial benefit determinations and/or to recover or recoup or waive recovery or recoupment of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments, or to recover or recoup debts owed to the Federal Government by annuitants; or
(2) For the Judges Plan under section 11252(b) of the Act:
(i) During the interim benefits administration period, the District of Columbia government; or
(ii) After the end of the interim benefits administration period for the Judges Plan:
(A) The Trustee selected by the Department under section 11251(a) of the Act;
(B) The Department, if a determination is made under section 11251(a) of the Act that, in the interest of economy and efficiency, the function of the Trustee shall be performed by the Department rather than the Trustee; or
(C) Any other agent of the Department designated to make initial benefit determinations and/or to recover or recoup or waive recovery or recoupment of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments, or to recover or recoup debts owed to the Federal Government by annuitants.
District government means the government of the District of Columbia.
District government
means the government of the District of Columbia.
Department means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Department
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Federal Benefit Payment means a payment for which the Department is responsible under the Act, to which an individual is entitled under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan, in such amount and under such terms and conditions as may apply under such plans, including payments made under these plans before, on, or after the October 1, 1997, effective date of the Act. Service after June 30, 1997, shall not be credited for purposes of determining the amount of any Federal Benefit Payment under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan.
Federal Benefit Payment
means a payment for which the Department is responsible under the Act, to which an individual is entitled under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan, in such amount and under such terms and conditions as may apply under such plans, including payments made under these plans before, on, or after the October 1, 1997, effective date of the Act. Service after June 30, 1997, shall not be credited for purposes of determining the amount of any Federal Benefit Payment under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan.
Freeze date means June 30, 1997.
Freeze date
means June 30, 1997.
Judges Plan means the retirement program (under subchapter III of chapter 15 of title 11 of the D.C. Code) for judges of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals or Superior Court or with judicial service with the former Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia, District of Columbia Tax Court, police court, municipal court, Municipal Court of Appeals, or District of Columbia Court of General Sessions.
Judges Plan
means the retirement program (under subchapter III of chapter 15 of title 11 of the D.C. Code) for judges of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals or Superior Court or with judicial service with the former Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia, District of Columbia Tax Court, police court, municipal court, Municipal Court of Appeals, or District of Columbia Court of General Sessions.
OPM means the United States Office of Personnel Management.
OPM
means the United States Office of Personnel Management.
Police and Firefighters Plan means any of the retirement programs (under chapter 6 of title 4 of the D.C. Code) for members of the Metropolitan Police Force and Fire Department in effect on June 29, 1997.
Police and Firefighters Plan
means any of the retirement programs (under chapter 6 of title 4 of the D.C. Code) for members of the Metropolitan Police Force and Fire Department in effect on June 29, 1997.
Reconsideration means the process of reexamining an individual's entitlement to benefits or liability for a debt to determine whether—
Reconsideration
means the process of reexamining an individual's entitlement to benefits or liability for a debt to determine whether—
(1) The law and regulations were properly applied; and/or
(2) The mathematical computation of the benefit or liability is correct.
Retirement Funds means the District of Columbia Teachers, Police Officers, and Firefighters Federal Pension Fund established under section 11081 of the Act, the District of Columbia Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund established under section 11252 of the Act, and their predecessor funds.
Retirement Funds
means the District of Columbia Teachers, Police Officers, and Firefighters Federal Pension Fund established under section 11081 of the Act, the District of Columbia Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund established under section 11252 of the Act, and their predecessor funds.
Secretary means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury or his or her designee.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury or his or her designee.
Teachers Plan means any of the retirement programs for teachers (under chapter 12 of title 31 of the D.C. Code) in effect on June 29, 1997.
Teachers Plan
means any of the retirement programs for teachers (under chapter 12 of title 31 of the D.C. Code) in effect on June 29, 1997.
(b) In this subpart—
Legal process means—
Legal process
means—
(1) Any document that qualifies as legal process as defined in § 581.103 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; or
(2) Any court order that Federal or District of Columbia law permits to cause all or any portion of a payment under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan to be made to a former spouse under chapter 30 of title 1 of the D.C. Code (1997).
Representative payee means a fiduciary to whom a payment under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan is made for the benefit of a plan participant or a survivor.
Representative payee
means a fiduciary to whom a payment under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan is made for the benefit of a plan participant or a survivor.
[[65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001; 70 FR 60004, Oct. 14, 2005]]

§ 29.104   Schedule for Federal Benefit Payments.

Federal Benefit Payments are payable on the first business day of the month following the month in which the benefit accrues. (See § 29.105(b).)

§ 29.105   Computation of time.

(a) For filing documents. In computing the number of days allowed for filing a document, the first day counted is the day after the action or event from which the period begins to run. If the date that ordinarily would be the last day for filing falls on a Saturday, a Sunday, a Federal holiday, or a District holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal or a District holiday.
For filing documents.
In computing the number of days allowed for filing a document, the first day counted is the day after the action or event from which the period begins to run. If the date that ordinarily would be the last day for filing falls on a Saturday, a Sunday, a Federal holiday, or a District holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal or a District holiday.
(b) For benefit accrual. (1) Annuity accrues on a daily basis; one-thirtieth of the monthly rate constitutes the daily rate.
For benefit accrual.
(1) Annuity accrues on a daily basis; one-thirtieth of the monthly rate constitutes the daily rate.
(2) Annuity does not accrue on the 31st day of any month except that annuity accrues on the 31st day of the initial month if the employee's annuity commences on the 31st day of a 31-day month.
(3) For accrual purposes the last day of a 28-day month counts as 3 days and the last day of a 29-day month counts as 2 days.
(c) For counting unused sick leave. (1) For annuity computation purposes—
For counting unused sick leave.
(1) For annuity computation purposes—
(i) The service of a participant under the Police and Firefighters Plan who retires on an immediate annuity is increased by the number of days of unused sick leave to the participant's credit under a formal leave system; and
(ii) The service of a participant under the Teachers Plan who retires on an immediate annuity or dies leaving a survivor entitled to an annuity is increased by the number of days of unused sick leave to the participant's credit under a formal leave system.
(2) In general, 8 hours of unused sick leave increases total service by 1 day. In cases where more or less than 8 hours of sick leave would be charged for a day's absence, total service is increased by the number of days in the period between the date of separation and the date that the unused sick leave would have expired had the employee used it (except that holidays falling within the period are treated as work days, and no additional leave credit is earned for that period).
(3) If an employee's tour of duty changes from part time to full time or full time to part time within 180 days before retirement, the credit for unused sick leave is computed as though no change had occurred.
(d) For counting leave without pay (LWOP) that is creditable service. (1) Under the Police and Firefighters Plan, credit is allowed for no more than 6 months of LWOP in each calendar year.
For counting leave without pay (LWOP) that is creditable service.
(1) Under the Police and Firefighters Plan, credit is allowed for no more than 6 months of LWOP in each calendar year.
(2)(i) Under the Teachers Plan, credit is allowed for no more than 6 months of LWOP in each fiscal year.
(ii)(A) For years prior to fiscal year 1976, each fiscal year started on July 1 and ended on the following June 30.
(B) Fiscal year 1976 started on July 1, 1975, and ended on September 30, 1976.
(C) For years starting in fiscal year 1977, each fiscal year starts on October 1 and ends on the following September 30.

§ 29.106   Representative payees.

For Federal Benefit Payments, representative payees will be authorized to the same extent and under the same circumstances as each plan permits for non-Federal Benefit Payments under the plan. (See e.g., section 4-629(b) of the D.C. Code (1997) (applicable to the Police and Firefighters Plan).)

Subpart B—Coordination With the District Government


§ 29.201   Purpose and scope.

This subpart contains information concerning the relationship between the Department and the District government in the administration of the Act and the functions of each in the administration of that Act.
[[70 FR 60005, Oct. 14, 2005]]

§ 29.202   Definitions. [Reserved]


§ 29.203   Service of Process.

To affect Federal Benefit Payments—
(a) Service must be made upon the Department at the address provided in appendix A to this subpart for—
(1) Legal process under section 659 of title 42, United States Code, and part 581 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or
(2) Any request for or notice of appointment of a custodian, guardian, or other fiduciary to receive Federal Benefit Payments as representative payees under § 29.106;
(b) All other process regarding Federal Benefit Payments (including requests for judicial review under § 29.406) must be served upon the United States in accordance with applicable law.
(c) All other process regarding Federal Benefit Payments must be served upon the United States in accordance with applicable law.

Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 29—Addresses for Service Under § 29.203

1. The mailing address for delivery of documents described in § 29.203(a) by the United States Postal Service is: Office of DC Pensions, Department of the Treasury, Metropolitan Square Building, Room 6250, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
2. The address for delivery of documents described in § 29.203(a) by process servers, express carriers, or other forms of handcarried delivery is: Office of DC Pensions, Department of the Treasury, Metropolitan Square Building, Room 6250, 655 15th Street (F Street side), NW., Washington, DC.
[[65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000]]

Subpart C—Split Benefits

[Source:77 FR 64225, Oct. 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
77 FR 64225, Oct. 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

§ 29.301   Purpose and scope.

(a) The purpose of this subpart is to addresses the legal and policy issues that affect the calculation of the Federal and District of Columbia portions of benefits under subtitle A of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, and 786-787 enacted August 5, 1997, as amended.
(1) This subpart states general principles for the calculation of Federal Benefit Payments in cases in which the Department and the District government are both responsible for paying a portion of an employee's total retirement benefits under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.
(2) This subpart provides illustrative examples of sample computations to show the application of the general principles to specific problems.
(b)(1) This subpart applies only to benefits under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan for individuals who have performed service creditable under these programs on or before June 30, 1997.
(2) This subpart addresses only those issues that affect the split of fiscal responsibility for retirement benefits (that is, the calculation of Federal Benefit Payments).
(3) Issues relating to determination and review of eligibility and payments, and financial management, are beyond the scope of this subpart.
(c) This subpart does not apply to benefit calculations under the Judges Plan.

§ 29.302   Definitions.

In this subpart (including appendix A of this subpart)—
Deferred retirement means retirement under section 4-623 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1231(a) of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan).
Deferred retirement
means retirement under section 4-623 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1231(a) of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan).
Deferred retirement age means the age at which a deferred annuity begins to accrue, that is, age 55 under the Police and Firefighters Plan and age 62 under the Teachers Plan.
Deferred retirement age
means the age at which a deferred annuity begins to accrue, that is, age 55 under the Police and Firefighters Plan and age 62 under the Teachers Plan.
Department service or departmental service means any period of employment in a position covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan or Teachers Plan. Department service or departmental service may include certain periods of military service that interrupt a period of employment under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.
Department service
or
departmental service
means any period of employment in a position covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan or Teachers Plan. Department service or departmental service may include certain periods of military service that interrupt a period of employment under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.
Disability retirement means retirement under section 4-615 or section 4-616 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1225 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan), regardless of whether the disability was incurred in the line of duty.
Disability retirement
means retirement under section 4-615 or section 4-616 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1225 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan), regardless of whether the disability was incurred in the line of duty.
Enter on duty means commencement of employment in a position covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.
Enter on duty
means commencement of employment in a position covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.
Excess leave without pay or excess LWOP means a period of time in a non-pay status that in any year is greater than the amount creditable as service under § 29.105(d).
Excess leave without pay
or
excess LWOP
means a period of time in a non-pay status that in any year is greater than the amount creditable as service under § 29.105(d).
Hire date means the date the employee entered on duty.
Hire date
means the date the employee entered on duty.
Military service means-
Military service
means-
(1) For the Police and Firefighters Plan, military service as defined in section 4-607 of the D.C. Code (1997) that is creditable as other service under section 4-602 or section 4-610 of the D.C. Code (1997); and
(2) For the Teachers Plan, military service as described in section 31-1230(a)(4) of the D.C. Code (1997).
Optional retirement means regular longevity retirement under section 4-618 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1224(a) of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan).
Optional retirement
means regular longevity retirement under section 4-618 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1224(a) of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan).
Other service means any period of creditable service other than departmental service or unused sick leave. Other service includes service that becomes creditable upon payment of a deposit, such as service in another school system (under section 31-1208 of the D.C. Code (1997)) (under the Teachers Plan) or prior governmental service (under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan); and service that is creditable without payment of a deposit, such as military service occurring prior to employment (under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan).
Other service
means any period of creditable service other than departmental service or unused sick leave. Other service includes service that becomes creditable upon payment of a deposit, such as service in another school system (under section 31-1208 of the D.C. Code (1997)) (under the Teachers Plan) or prior governmental service (under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan); and service that is creditable without payment of a deposit, such as military service occurring prior to employment (under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan).
Pre-80 hire means an individual whose annuity is computed using the formula under the Police and Firefighters Plan applicable to individuals hired before February 15, 1980.
Pre-80 hire
means an individual whose annuity is computed using the formula under the Police and Firefighters Plan applicable to individuals hired before February 15, 1980.
Pre-96 hire means an individual whose annuity is computed using the formula under the Teachers Plan applicable to individuals hired before November 1, 1996.
Pre-96 hire
means an individual whose annuity is computed using the formula under the Teachers Plan applicable to individuals hired before November 1, 1996.
Sick leave means unused sick leave, which is creditable in a retirement computation, as calculated under § 29.105(c).
Sick leave
means unused sick leave, which is creditable in a retirement computation, as calculated under § 29.105(c).
General Principles for Determining Service Credit To Calculate Federal Benefit Payments

§ 29.311   Credit only for service performed on or before June 30, 1997.

Only service performed on or before June 30, 1997, is credited toward Federal Benefit Payments.

§ 29.312   All requirements for credit must be satisfied by June 30, 1997.

Service is counted toward Federal Benefit Payments only if all requirements for the service to be creditable are satisfied as of June 30, 1997.

§ 29.313   Federal Benefit Payments are computed based on retirement eligibility as of the separation date and service creditable as of June 30, 1997.

Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the amount of Federal Benefit Payments is computed based on retirement eligibility as of the separation date and service creditable as of June 30, 1997.
Service Performed After June 30, 1997

§ 29.321   General principle.

Any service performed after June 30, 1997, may never be credited toward Federal Benefit Payments.

§ 29.322   Disability benefits.

If an employee separates for disability retirement after June 30, 1997, and, on the date of separation, the employee—
(a) Satisfies the age and service requirements for optional retirement, the Federal Benefit Payment commences immediately, that is, the Federal Benefit Payment is calculated as though the employee retired under optional retirement rules using only service through June 30, 1997 (See examples 7A and 7B of appendix A of this subpart); or
(b) Does not satisfy the age and service requirements for optional retirement, the Federal Benefit Payment begins when the disability retiree reaches deferred retirement age. (See § 29.343.)
All Requirements for Credit Must Be Satisfied by June 30, 1997

§ 29.331   General principle.

To determine whether service is creditable for the computation of Federal Benefit Payments under this subpart, the controlling factor is whether all requirements for the service to be creditable under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan were satisfied as of June 30, 1997.

§ 29.332   Unused sick leave.

(a) For employees separated for retirement as of June 30, 1997, Federal Benefit Payments include credit for any unused sick leave that is creditable under the applicable plan.
(b) For employees separated for retirement after June 30, 1997, no unused sick leave is creditable toward Federal Benefit Payments.

§ 29.333   Military service.

(a) For employees who entered on duty on or before June 30, 1997, and whose military service was performed prior to that date, credit for military service is included in Federal Benefit Payments under the terms and conditions applicable to each plan.
(b) For employees who enter on duty after June 30, 1997, military service is not creditable toward Federal Benefit Payments, even if performed as of June 30, 1997.
(c) For employees who entered on duty on or before June 30, 1997, but who perform military service after that date, the credit for military service is not included in Federal Benefit Payments.

§ 29.334   Deposit service.

(a) Teachers Plan. (1) Periods of civilian service that were not subject to retirement deductions at the time they were performed are creditable for Federal Benefit Payments under the Teachers Plan if the deposit for the service was paid in full to the Teachers Plan as of June 30, 1997.
Teachers Plan.
(1) Periods of civilian service that were not subject to retirement deductions at the time they were performed are creditable for Federal Benefit Payments under the Teachers Plan if the deposit for the service was paid in full to the Teachers Plan as of June 30, 1997.
(2) No credit is allowed for Federal Benefit Payments under the Teachers Plan for any period of civilian service that was not subject to retirement deductions at the time it was performed if the deposit for the service was not paid in full as of June 30, 1997.
(3) If the deposit for the service was paid in installments, but was not paid in full as of June 30, 1997, Treasury shall transfer to the District an amount equal to the portion of the deposit completed prior to June 30, 1997.
(b) Police and Firefighters Plan. No credit is allowed for Federal Benefit Payments under the Police and Firefighters Plan for any period of civilian service that was not subject to retirement deductions at the time that the service was performed. (See definition of “governmental service” at D.C. Code section 4-607(15) (1997).)
Police and Firefighters Plan.
No credit is allowed for Federal Benefit Payments under the Police and Firefighters Plan for any period of civilian service that was not subject to retirement deductions at the time that the service was performed. (See definition of “governmental service” at D.C. Code section 4-607(15) (1997).)

§ 29.335   Refunded service.

(a) Periods of civilian service that were subject to retirement deductions but for which the deductions were refunded to the employee are creditable for Federal Benefit Payments if the redeposit for the service was paid in full to the District government as of June 30, 1997.
(b) No credit is allowed for Federal Benefit Payments for any period of civilian service that was subject to retirement deductions but for which the deductions were refunded to the employee if the redeposit for the service was not paid in full to the District government as of June 30, 1997.
(c) If the redeposit for the service was paid in installments, but was not paid in full as of June 30, 1997, Treasury shall transfer to the District an amount equal to the portion of the redeposit completed prior to June 30, 1997.
Calculation of the Amount of Federal Benefit Payments

§ 29.341   General principle.

(a) Where service is creditable both before and after June 30, 1997, Federal Benefit Payments are computed under the rules of the applicable plan as though—
(1) The employee were eligible to retire effective July 1, 1997, under the same conditions as the actual retirement (that is, using the annuity computation formula that applies under the plan in effect on June 29, 1997, and the retirement age, including any applicable age reduction, based on the age at actual retirement);
(2) The service that became creditable after June 30, 1997, did not exist; and
(3) The average salary is the average salary at separation.
(b) Exceptions to the general principle apply where:
(1) Congress amends the terms of the District Retirement Program in effect on June 29, 1997. For example, see section 11012(e) & (f) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, as amended by Public Laws 106-554, 107-290, and 108-133 (codified at D.C. Code section 1-803.02(e) and (f));
(2) The retirement is based on disability after June 30, 1997 (see 29.343); or
(3) The benefit is based on the death of an employee after June 30, 1997 and the survivor benefit is not based on years of service (see 29.344).
Note to § 29.341:
See examples 7B, 9, and 13 of appendix A of this subpart.

§ 29.342   Computed annuity exceeds the statutory maximum.

(a) In cases in which the total computed annuity exceeds the statutory maximum:
(1) Federal Benefit Payments may equal total benefits even if the employee had service after June 30, 1997.
(2) If the employee had sufficient service as of June 30, 1997, to qualify for the maximum annuity under the plan, the Federal Benefit Payment is the maximum annuity under the plan. This will be the entire benefit except for any amount in excess of the normal maximum due to unused sick leave, which is the responsibility of the District. (See example 3, of appendix A of this subpart.)
(b) If the employee did not perform sufficient service as of June 30, 1997, to reach the statutory maximum benefit, but has sufficient service at actual retirement to exceed the statutory maximum, the Federal Benefit Payment is the amount earned through June 30, 1997. The District benefit payment is the amount by which the total benefit payable exceeds the Federal Benefit Payment.

§ 29.343   Disability benefits.

(a) The general rule that Federal Benefit Payments are calculated under the applicable retirement plan as though the employee were eligible for optional retirement and separated on June 30, 1997, does not apply to disability benefits prior to optional retirement age.
(b) In cases involving disability benefits prior to optional retirement age, no Federal Benefit Payment is payable until the retiree reaches the age of eligibility to receive a deferred annuity (age 55 under the Police and Firefighters Plan and age 62 under the Teachers Plan). When the age for deferred annuity is reached, the Federal Benefit Payment is paid using creditable service accrued as of June 30, 1997, and average salary (computed under the rules for the applicable plan) as of the date of separation. (See examples 6 and 7 of appendix A of this subpart.)
(c) In no case will the amount of the Federal Benefit Payment exceed the amount of the total disability annuity.

§ 29.344   Survivor benefits.

(a) The general rule that Federal Benefit Payments are calculated under the applicable retirement plan as though the employee were eligible for optional retirement and separated on June 30, 1997, applies to death benefits that are determined by length of service. In these cases, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated by multiplying the survivor's total benefit by the ratio of the deceased retiree or employee's Federal Benefit Payment to the deceased retiree or employee's total annuity. (See examples 13A and B of appendix A of this subpart.)
(b) The general rule that Federal Benefit Payments are calculated under the applicable retirement plan as though the employee were eligible for optional retirement and separated on June 30, 1997, does not apply to death benefits that are not determined by length of service. In these cases, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated by multiplying the survivor's total benefit by the deceased retiree or employee's number of full months of service through June 30, 1997, and then dividing by the retiree or employee's number of months of total service at retirement. (See examples 13C-F of appendix A of this subpart.)
(c) In cases involving a disability or early voluntary retiree who dies before reaching the age at which a Federal Benefit Payment is payable, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated as though the employee had not retired from service, but had separated from service with eligibility to receive a deferred annuity. (See examples 13G and 13H of appendix A of this subpart.)

§ 29.345   Annuity adjustments.

(a) In cases in which the total annuity and the Federal Benefit Payment are equally impacted by a cost-of-living adjustment, the new Federal Benefit Payment is determined by applying the federal percentage of the total annuity to the new total annuity. (See examples 14A-G of appendix A of this subpart.)
(b) In cases in which the total annuity and the Federal Benefit Payment are not equally impacted by a change, such as a new plan provision or service-based adjustment, the Federal Benefit Payment is recalculated where applicable, and the federal percentage of the total annuity used to determine subsequent Federal Benefit Payments is recalculated. (See example 14H of appendix A of this subpart.)

§ 29.346   Reduction for survivor benefits.

If a retiree elects a reduction for a survivor annuity, the ratio of the unreduced Federal Benefit Payment to the unreduced total annuity is multiplied by the reduced total annuity to determine the reduced Federal Benefit Payment. (See example 10 of appendix A of this subpart.)
Calculation of the Split of Refunds of Employee Contributions and Deposits

§ 29.351   General principle.

Treasury will fund refunds of employee contributions and purchase of service deposits paid by or on behalf of a covered employee to the District of Columbia Police Officers' and Firefighters' Retirement Fund or District of Columbia Teachers' Retirement Fund on or before June 30, 1997.

§ 29.352   Refunded contributions.

For any given pay period, employee contributions are considered to have been made before the freeze date if the pay date was on or before June 30, 1997. As a result, for calendar year 1997, Treasury will fund refunds of employee contributions made by teachers through pay period 12 and fund refunds of employee contributions made by police officers and firefighters through pay period 13. If pay period records are unavailable for calendar year 1997, and the participant separated on or before June 30, 1997, Treasury will fund 100 percent of the refund of retirement contributions. If pay period records are unavailable for calendar year 1997, and the participant was hired before January 1, 1997, and separated after December 31, 1997, Treasury will fund 50 percent of the refund of retirement contributions made to teachers in calendar year 1997, and 48 percent of the retirement contributions made to police officers or firefighters in calendar year 1997. Otherwise, if the participant separated after June 30, 1997, the percent of contributions made in calendar year 1997 funded by Treasury is assumed to be the ratio where the numerator is the number of days before July 1 the participant was employed in calendar year 1997 and the denominator is the number of days the participant was employed in calendar year 1997.

§ 29.353   Refunded deposits.

Treasury will fund refunds of purchase of service deposits made by employees by lump sum payment or by installment payments on or before June 30, 1997.

Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 29—Examples

This appendix contains sample calculations of Federal Benefit Payments in a variety of situations.
Optional Retirement Examples
Example 1: No Unused Sick Leave
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 retires in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 51 with 20 years and 3 days of departmental service plus 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of military service that preceded the departmental service. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 19 years, 8 months, and 22 days of departmental service and 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of military service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 23 years and 1 month of service, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 23 years and 4 months of service, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate.
Example 1A—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/46
Hire date: 10/09/77
Separation date: 10/11/97
Department service: 20/00/03
Other service: 03/04/21
Sick leave:
.025 service: 23.333333
.03 service:
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $26,647.12
Total/month: $2,221.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 9/10/46
Hire date: 10/09/77
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 19/08/22
Other service: 03/04/21
Sick leave:
.025 service: 23.083333
.03 service:
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $26,361.61
Total/month: $2,197.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.989194
B. In this example, the individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan was hired earlier than in example 1A and thus performed more service as of both June 30, 1997, and retirement in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 51 with 21 years, 11 months and 29 days of departmental service plus 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of military service that preceded the departmental service. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 21 years, 8 months, and 18 days of departmental service and 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of military service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 25 years and 1 month of service, 1 year and 8 months at the 3.0 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 5 months at the 2.5 percent accrual rate (including 1 month consisting of 18 days of departmental service and 21 days of other service). The total annuity is based on 25 years and 4 months of service, 1 year and 11 months at the 3.0 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 5 months at the 2.5 percent accrual rate (including 1 month consisting of 29 days of departmental service and 21 days of other service).
Example 1B—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/46
Hire date: 10/13/75
Separation date: 10/11/97
Department service: 21/11/29
Other service: 03/04/21
Sick leave:
.025 service: 23.416667
.03 service: 1.916667
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $29,368.96
Total/month $2,447.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/10/46
Hire date: 10/13/75
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 21/08/18
Other service: 03/04/21
Sick leave:
.025 service: 23.416667
.03 service: 1.666667
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $29,026.36
Total/month: $2,419.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.988557
Example 2: Unused Sick Leave Credit
In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan and hired before 1980 retires in March 1998. At retirement, she is age 48 with 24 years, 8 months, and 6 days of departmental service plus 6 months and 4 days of other service (deposit paid before June 30, 1997) and 11 months and 11 days of unused sick leave. For a police officer (or a non-firefighting division firefighter) such an amount of sick leave would be 1968 hours (246 days, based on a 260-day year, times 8 hours per day). For a firefighting division firefighter, such an amount would be 2,069 hours (341 days divided by 360 days per year times 2,184 hours per year). The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 23 years, 11 months, and 23 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997, and 6 months and 4 days of other service. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 20 years departmental and 6 months of other service at the 2.5 percent accrual rate and 3 years and 11 months of service at the 3.0 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 20 years and 6 months of service at the 2.5 percent accrual rate and 5 years and 7 months of service at the 3 percent accrual rate.
Example 2—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 05/01/49
Hire date: 07/08/73
Separation date: 03/13/98
Department service: 24/08/06
Other service: 00/06/04
Sick leave: 00/11/11
.025 service: 20.5
.03 service: 5.583333
Average salary: $61,264.24
Total: $41,659.68
Total/month: $3,472.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 05/01/49
Hire date: 07/08/73
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 23/11/23
Other service: 00/06/04
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20.5
.03 service: 3.916667
Average salary: $61,264.24
Total: $38,596.47
Total/month: $3,216.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.926267
Example 3: Calculated Benefit Exceeds Statutory Maximum
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 retires in March 1998. At retirement, he is age 55 with 32 years and 17 days of departmental service. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 31 years, 3 months, and 17 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 20 years of service at the 2.5 percent accrual rate and 11 years and 3 months of service at the 3.0 percent accrual rate. However, the annuity is limited to 80 percent of the average salary at time of retirement. (This limitation does not apply to the unused sick leave credit.) The annuity computed as of June 30, 1997, equals the full benefit payable; therefore, the Federal Benefit Payment is the total benefit.
Example 3A—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 06/12/42
Hire date: 03/14/66
Separation date: 03/30/98
Department service: 32/00/17
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 12
Average salary: $75,328.30
Total: $64,782.34
Total/month: $5,399.00
Maximum: $60,262.64
Maximum/month: $5,022.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 06/12/42
Hire date: 03/14/66
Freeze date: 03/30/97
Department service: 31/03/17
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 11.25
Average salary: $75,328.30
Total: $63,087.45
Total/month: $5,257.00
Maximum: $60,262.64
Maximum/month: $5,022.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 1.0
B. In this example, the individual in example 3A also has 6 months of unused sick leave at retirement. The sick leave credit is not subject to the 80% limitation and does not become creditable service until the date of separation. For a police officer (or a non-firefighting division firefighter) such an amount of sick leave would be 1040 hours (130 days, based on a 260-day year, times 8 hours per day). For a firefighting division firefighter, such an amount would be 1092 hours (180 days divided by 360 days per year times 2184 hours per year). Six months of unused sick leave increases the annual total benefit by 1.5 percent of the average salary, or in the example by $94 per month. The District is responsible for the portion of the annuity attributable to the unused sick leave because it became creditable at retirement, that is, after June 30, 1997.
Example 3B—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 06/12/42
Hire date: 03/14/66
Separation date: 03/30/98
Department service: 32/00/17
Other service:
Sick leave: 00/06/00
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 12
Average salary: $75,328.30
Total wo/sl credit: $64,782.34
Total/month: $5,399.00
Max wo/sl credit: $60,262.64
Max w/sl credit: $61,392.57
Monthly benefit: $5,116.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 06/12/42
Hire date: 03/14/66
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 31/03/17
Other service:
Sick leave: none
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 11.25
Average salary: $75,328.30
Total: $63,087.45
Total/month: $5,257.00
Maximum: $60,262.64
Monthly benefit: $5,022.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.981626
Example 4: Excess Leave Without Pay
In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires in February 1998. At retirement, she is age 64 with 27 years of departmental service and 6 years, 7 months, and 28 days of other service (creditable before June 30, 1997). However, only 6 months of leave in a fiscal year without pay may be credited toward retirement under the Teachers Plan. She had 3 months and 18 days of excess leave without pay as of June 30, 1997. Since the excess leave without pay occurred before June 30, 1997, the time attributable to the excess leave without pay is subtracted from the service used in both the Federal Benefit Payment and the total benefit computations. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 32 years and 8 months of service (32 years, 11 months, and 28 days minus 3 months and 18 days and the partial month dropped); 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 22 years and 8 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 33 years and 4 months of service (33 years, 7 months and 28 days minus 3 months and 18 days and the partial month dropped) 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 4 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Note:
For the Teachers Plan, section 1230(a) of title 31 of the D.C. Code (1997) allows for 6 months leave without pay in any fiscal year. For the Police and Firefighters Plan, section 610(d) of title 4 of the D.C. Code (1997) allows for 6 months leave without pay in any calendar year.
Example 4—Teachers Optional
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/04/33
Hire date: 03/01/71
Separation date: 02/28/98
Department service: 27/00/00
Other service: 06/07/28
Excess LWOP: 00/03/18
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $33,421.98
Total/month: $2,785.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/04/33
Hire date: 03/01/71
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 26/04/00
Other service: 06/07/28
Excess LWOP: 00/03/18
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 22.666667
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $32,713.66
Total/month: $2,726.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.978815
Example 5: Service Credit Deposits
A. An individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 61 with 30 years and 3 days of departmental service plus 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of other service that preceded the departmental service for which the deposit was fully paid on or before June 30, 1997. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 29 years, 8 months, and 22 days of departmental service and 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 33 years and 1 month of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 23 years and 1 month of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 33 years and 4 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 4 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Example 5A—Teachers Optional
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Separation date: 10/11/97
Department Service: 30/00/03
Other service: 03/04/21
Deposit paid before freeze date:
Other service credit allowed:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $28,740.85
Total/month: $2,395.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 29/08/22
Other service: 03/04/21
Deposit paid before freeze date:
Other service credit allowed:
Sick Leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.08333; 13 days
dropped
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $28,512.45
Total/month: $2,376.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.992067
B. In this example, the employee in example 5A did not pay any of the deposit to obtain credit for the 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of other service as of June 30, 1997. Thus, none of the other service is used in the computation of the Federal Benefit Payment. An individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 61 with 30 years and 3 days of departmental service plus 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of other service that preceded the departmental service for which the deposit was paid in full in October 1997 (at retirement). The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on only the 29 years, 8 months, and 22 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 19 years and 8 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 33 years and 4 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 4 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Example 5B—Teachers Optional
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Separation date: 10/11/97
$0.00
Department service: 30/00/03
Other service: 03/04/21
Total deposit paid after 6/30/97:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $28,740.85
Total/month: $2,395.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 29/08/22
Other service: none
Total deposit paid after 6/30/97:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 19.666667; 22 days dropped
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $25,390.90
Total/month: $2,116.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.883507
C. In this example, the employee in examples 5A and B began installment payments on the deposit to obtain credit for the 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of other service as of June 30, 1997, but did not complete the deposit until October 1997 (at retirement). The other service is not used in the computation of the Federal Benefit Payment because the payment was not completed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the result is the same as in example 5B.
Example 5C—Teachers Optional
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Separation date: 10/11/97
Department service: 30/00/03
Other service: 03/04/21
Partial deposit paid as of 6/30/97:
Deposit completed after 6/30/97:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $28,740.85
Total/month: $2,395.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 29/08/22
Other service: none
Partial deposit paid as of 6/30/97:
Deposit completed after 6/30/97:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 19.666667; 22 days dropped
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $25,390.90
Total/month: $2,116.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.883507
Disability Retirement Examples
Example 6: Disability Occurs Before Eligibility for Optional Retirement
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 retires based on a disability in the line of duty in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 45 with 18 years, 5 months, and 11 days of departmental service. Since he had performed less than 20 years of service and had not reached the age of eligibility for an optional retirement, the Federal Benefit Payment does not begin at retirement. When the disability annuitant reaches age 55, he satisfies the age and service requirements for deferred retirement. At that time (August 20, 2007), the Federal Benefit Payment begins. It is based on the 18 years, 1 month, and 17 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate.
Example 6A—Police Disability in Line of Duty, Age 45
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 08/20/52
Hire date: 05/14/79
Separation date: 10/24/97
Department service: 18/05/11
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 18.416667
.03 service:
Average salary: $47,788.64
Final salary: $50,938.00
Total: $22,002.70
Total/month: $1,834.00
2/3 of average pay: $31,859.11
Monthly: $2,655.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 08/20/52
Hire date: 05/14/79
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 18/01/17
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 18.083333
.03 service:
Average salary: $47,788.64
Final salary: $50,938.00
Total: $21,604.43
Total/month: $1,800.00; deferred
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.0 (at time of retirement)
B. In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires based on a disability in December 1997. At retirement, she is age 49 with 27 years and 4 months of departmental service which includes 3 years, 3 months and 14 days of excess leave without pay (prior to June 30, 1997). Since she does not qualify for optional retirement at separation, the Federal Benefit Payment does not begin at separation. When the disability annuitant reaches age 62, she will satisfy the age and service requirements for deferred retirement. At that time (March 9, 2010), the Federal Benefit Payment begins. The time attributable to the excess leave without pay is subtracted from the service used to compute the Federal Benefit Payment. Since the excess leave without pay occurred before June 30, 1997, the deferred Federal Benefit Payment is based on the 23 years and 6 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 13 and 6 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Example 6B—Teachers Disability Age 49
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 03/09/48
Hire date: 09/01/70
Separation date: 12/31/97
Department service: 27/04/00
Other service:
Excess LWOP: 03/03/14
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 14
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $23,506.04
Total/month: $1,959.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 03/09/48
Hire date: 09/01/70
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 26/10/00
Other service:
Excess LWOP: 03/03/14
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 13.5
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $22,974.83
Total/month: $1,915.00; deferred
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.0 (at time of retirement)
Example 7: Disability Occurs After Eligibility for Optional Retirement
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 retires based on a disability in the line of duty in October 1997. At retirement, she is age 55 with 24 years, 5 months, and 11 days of departmental service. Since she was also eligible for optional retirement at the time of separation, the Federal Benefit Payment commences at retirement. It is based on the 24 years, 1 month, and 17 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 20 years of service at the 2.5 percent accrual rate and 4 years and 1 month of service at the 3 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on the disability formula and is equal to two-thirds of average pay because that amount is higher than the 63.25 percent payable based on total service.
Example 7A—Police Disability in Line of Duty Age 55
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 10/01/42
Hire date: 05/14/73
Separation date: 10/24/97
Department service: 24/05/11
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 4.416667
Average salary: $47,788.64
Final salary: $50,938.00
Total: $30,226.31
Total/month: $2,519.00
2/3 of average pay: $31,859.11
Monthly: $2,655.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 10/01/42
Hire date: 05/14/73
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 24/01/17
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 4.083333
Average salary: $47,788.64
Final salary: $50,938.00
Total: $29,748.43
Total/month: $2,479.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.984121
B. In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires based on a disability in December 1997. At retirement, he is age 60 with 27 years and 4 months of departmental service which includes 3 years, 3 months and 14 days of excess leave without pay (prior to June 30, 1997). Since he qualifies for optional retirement at separation, the Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. Since the excess leave without pay occurred before June 30, 1997, and the total annuity is based on actual service (that is, exceeds the guaranteed disability minimum), the time attributable to the excess leave without pay is subtracted from the service used to compute the Federal Benefit Payment and total benefit. The Federal Benefit Payment is based on 23 years and 6 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 13 years and 6 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity payable is based on 24 years of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 14 years of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Example 7B—Teachers Disability Age 60
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 03/09/37
Hire date: 09/01/70
Separation date: 12/31/97
Department service: 27/04/00
Other service:
Excess LWOP: 03/03/14
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 14
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $23,506.04
Total/month: $1,959.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 03/09/37
Hire date: 09/01/70
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 26/10/00
Other service:
Excess LWOP: 03/03/14
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 13.5
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $22,974.83
Total/month: $1,915.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.977540
Deferred Retirement Examples
Example 8: All Service Before June 30, 1997
In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 separated in March 1986 with title to a deferred annuity. In November 1997, he reaches age 55 and becomes eligible for the deferred annuity based on his 15 years, 9 months, and 8 days of departmental service, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on the same 15 years, 9 months, and 8 days of service all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate. Since all the service is creditable as of June 30, 1997, the Federal Benefit Payment equals the total annuity.
Example 8—Police Deferred
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/20/42
Hire date: 06/01/70
Separation date: 03/08/86
Department service: 15/09/08
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 15.75
.03 service: 0
Average salary: $30,427.14
Final salary: $45,415.00
Total: $11,980.69; deferred
Total/month: $998.00; deferred
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/20/42
Hire date: 06/01/70
Freeze date: 03/08/86
Department service: 15/09/08
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 15.75
.03 service: 0
Average salary: $30,427.14
Final salary: $45,415.00
Total: $11,980.69; deferred
Total/month: $998.00; deferred
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 1.0; deferred
Example 9: Service Straddles June 30, 1997
In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 separated in December 1997 with title to a deferred annuity. In November 2007, he will reach age 55 and becomes eligible to receive a deferred annuity. At that time, the Federal Benefit Payment begins. It is based on the 18 years and 1 month of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate. The total annuity begins at the same time, based on his 18 years, 6 months, and 8 days of departmental service, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate.
Example 9—Police Deferred
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/20/52
Hire date: 06/01/79
Separation date: 12/08/97
Department service: 18/06/08
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 18.5
.03 service: 0
Average salary: $30,427.14
Final salary: $45,415.00
Total: $14,072.55; deferred
Total/month: $1,173.00; deferred
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/20/52
Hire date: 06/01/79
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 18/01/00
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 18.083333
.03 service: 0
Average salary: $30,427.14
Final salary: $45,415.00
Total: $13,755.60; deferred
Total/month: $1,146.00; deferred
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.976982; deferred
Reduction To Provide a Survivor Annuity Examples
Example 10: Survivor Reduction Calculations
Both of the following examples involve a former teacher who elected a reduced annuity to provide a survivor benefit:
A. In this example, the employee elects to provide full survivor benefits of 55% of the employee's unreduced annuity. The total annuity is reduced by 2
1/2 percent of the first $3600 and 10 percent of the balance. The reduced Federal Benefit Payment is determined by multiplying the reduced total annuity (rounded) by the ratio of the unreduced Federal Benefit Payment to the unreduced total annuity. Military service occurred prior to June 30, 1997 and purchase of other service was completed prior to June 30, 1997.
1/2
percent of the first $3600 and 10 percent of the balance. The reduced Federal Benefit Payment is determined by multiplying the reduced total annuity (rounded) by the ratio of the unreduced Federal Benefit Payment to the unreduced total annuity. Military service occurred prior to June 30, 1997 and purchase of other service was completed prior to June 30, 1997.
Example 10A—Teachers Optional W/Survivor Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Separation date: 12/31/97
Department service: 29/02/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.666667
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total unreduced: $42,464.13
Total unreduced/month: $3,539.00
Reduction: $3,976.41
Total: $38,487.72
Total/month: $3,207.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 28/08/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.166667
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total federal unreduced: $41,796.28
Total federal unreduced/month: $3,483.00
Total federal unreduced/month ÷ total unreduced/month: 0.984176
Total federal/month: $3,156.00
B. In this example, the employee elects to provide a partial survivor annuity of 26% of the employee's unreduced annuity. The total annuity is reduced by 2
1/2 percent of the first $3,600 of $20,073.95 and 10 percent of the balance. The reduced Federal Benefit Payment is determined by multiplying the reduced total annuity (rounded) by the ratio of the unreduced Federal Benefit Payment to the unreduced total annuity.
1/2
percent of the first $3,600 of $20,073.95 and 10 percent of the balance. The reduced Federal Benefit Payment is determined by multiplying the reduced total annuity (rounded) by the ratio of the unreduced Federal Benefit Payment to the unreduced total annuity.
Example 10B—Teachers Optional W/Survivor Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Separation date: 12/31/97
Department service: 29/02/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.666667
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total unreduced: $42,464.13
Total unreduced/month: $3,539.00
Reduction: $1,737.40
Total reduced: $40,726.73
Total reduced/month: $3,394.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire Date: 11/01/68
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 28/08/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.166667
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total federal unreduced: $41,796.28
Total federal unreduced/month: $3,483.00
Total federal unreduced/month ÷ total unreduced/month: 0.984176
Total federal reduced/month: $3,340.00
Early Optional or Involuntary Retirement Examples
Example 11: Early Optional With Age Reduction
In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires voluntarily in February 1998, under a special program that allows early retirement with at least 20 years of service at age 50 older, or at least 25 years of service at any age. At retirement, she is 6 full months short of age 55. She has 25 years and 5 months of departmental service; 6 years, 2 months, and 19 days of other service (creditable before June 30, 1997); and 2 months and 9 days of unused sick leave. Since she is not eligible for optional retirement and she is eligible to retire voluntarily only because of the District-approved special program, the Federal Benefit Payment is calculated similar to a disability retirement. It does not begin until she becomes eligible for a deferred annuity at age 62. When it commences the Federal Benefit Payment will be based on the service creditable as of June 30, 1997: 30 years and 11 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 20 years and 11 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 21 years and 9 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate (including the unused sick leave). Because the Federal Benefit Payment is based on the deferred annuity, rather than the early voluntary retirement, it is not reduced by the age reduction factor used to compute the total benefit.
Example 11—Teachers Early Out W/Age Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/20/43
Hire date: 10/01/72
Separation date: 02/28/98
Department service: 25/05/00
Other service: 06/02/19
Sick leave: 00/02/09
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 21.75
Average salary: $69,281.14
Total unreduced: $41,395.48
Age reduction factor: 0.990000
Total reduced: $40,981.53
Total/month: $3,415.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/20/43
Hire date: 10/01/72
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 24/09/00
Other service: 06/02/19
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 20.916667
Average salary: $69,281.14
Total unreduced: $40,240.80; deferred
Reduction factor: 1.000000 no reduction
Total reduced: $40,240.80; deferred
Total/month: $3,353.00 deferred
Total federal unreduced/month ÷ Total unreduced/month: 0.0 (at time of retirement)
Example 12: Involuntary With Age Reduction
In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires involuntarily in February 1998. At retirement, she is 6 full months short of age 55. She has 25 years and 5 months of departmental service; 6 years, 2 months, and 19 days of other service (creditable before June 30, 1997); and 2 months and 9 days of unused sick leave. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 30 years and 11 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 20 years and 11 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 21 years and 9 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate (including the unused sick leave). Both the Federal Benefit Payment and the total benefit are reduced by the age reduction factor.
Example 12—Teachers Involuntary W/Age Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/20/43
Hire date: 10/01/72
Separation date: 02/28/98
Department service: 25/05/00
Other service: 06/02/19
Sick leave: 00/02/09
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 21.75
Average salary: $69,281.14
Total unreduced: $41,395.48
Age reduction factor: 0.990000
Total reduced: $40,981.53
Total/month: $3,415.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/20/43
Hire date: 10/01/72
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 24/09/00
Other service: 06/02/19
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 20.916667
Average salary: $69,281.14
Total unreduced: $40,240.80
Age reduction factor: 0.990000
Total reduced: $39,838.39
Total/month: $3,320.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.972182
Death Benefits Example
Example 13: Death Benefits Calculation
Examples A and B involve service-based death benefits calculations. Examples C-F involve non-service-based death benefits calculations. Examples G and H involve disability death benefit calculations.
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan retires in December 1997 and elects to provide a full survivor annuity. He dies in June 1998. The survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is 98.4 percent ($3,483 ÷ $3,539) of the total survivor benefit.
Example 13A—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Separation date: 12/31/97
Death date: 06/24/98
Department service: 29/02/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total unreduced/month (retiree): $3,539.00
Total/month (survivor): $1,946.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 06/24/98
Department service: 28/08/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total federal unreduced/month (retiree): $3,483.00
Total federal unreduced/month (retiree) ÷ total unreduced/month (retiree): 0.984176
Total federal/month (survivor): $1,915.00
B. In this example, a teacher dies in service on June 30, 1998 after 31 years of departmental service. Since the survivor annuity is based on actual service, the Federal Benefit Payment is 96.5 percent ($1,818 ÷ $1,883) of the total survivor benefit.
Example 13B—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 07/01/39
Hire date: 07/01/67
Separation date: 06/30/98
Death date: 06/30/98
Department service: 31/00/00
Average salary: $38,787.88
Total (retiree): $22,593.94
Total/month (retiree): $1,883.00
Total/month (survivor): $1,036.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 07/01/39
Hire date: 07/01/67
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 06/30/98
Department service: 30/00/00
Average salary: $38,787.88
Total federal (retiree): $21,818.18
Total federal/month (retiree): $1,818.00
Total federal/month (retiree) ÷ total/month (retiree): 0.965481
Total federal/month (survivor): $1,000.00
C. In this example, as in Example A, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan retires in December 1997 but elects to provide a survivor annuity of $12,000. He dies in June 1998. Because the amount of the survivor annuity is not service-based, the Federal Benefit Payment is a prorated portion of the total benefit. Since the teacher had 398 months of service as of the freeze date and 404 months of service, at retirement, the Federal Benefit Payment equals 398/404ths of the total benefit.
Example 13C—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Separation date: 12/31/97
Death date: 06/24/98
Department service: 29/02/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
Months of service: 404
Total: $12,000.00
Total/month: $1,000.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 06/24/98
Department service: 28/08/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
Months of service: 398
Federal service ÷ total service: 0.985149
Total: $11,820.00
Total/month: $985.00
D. In this example, a teacher dies in service on April 1, 1998 after 14 years and 6 months of departmental service. Because the survivor annuity is based on the guaranteed minimum, the Federal Benefit Payment is a prorated portion of the total benefit. Since the teacher had 165 months of service as of the freeze date and 180 months of service, including unused sick leave, at death, the Federal Benefit Payment equals 165/180ths of the total benefit.
Example 13D—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 04/01/61
Hire date: 10/01/83
Separation date: 04/01/98
Death date: 04/01/98
Department service: 14/06/01
Unused Sick Leave: 00/06/00
Average salary: $36,000.00
Months of service: 180
Total: $7,920.00
Total/month: $660.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 04/01/61
Hire date: 04/01/83
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 04/01/98
Department Service: 13/09/00
Average salary: $36,000.00
Months of service: 165
Federal service ÷ total service: 0.916667
Total: $7,260.00
Total/month: $605.00
E. In this example, as in the prior example, a teacher dies in service on April 1, 1998 after 15 years of departmental service. However, in this example, the teacher was age 40 on the hire date. The amount of service used in the survivor annuity calculation equals the amount of service that the teacher would have had if the teacher continued covered employment until age 60. Because the survivor annuity is based on projected service, a form of the guaranteed minimum, the Federal Benefit Payment is a prorated portion of the total benefit. Since the teacher had 171 months of service as of the freeze date and 180 months of service at death, the Federal Benefit Payment equals 171/180ths of the total benefit.
Example 13E—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 04/01/43
Hire date: 04/01/83
Separation date: 04/01/98
Death date: 04/01/98
Department service: 15/00/01
Departmental Service projected to age 60: 20/00/01
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 10
Average salary: $36,000.00
Months of service: 180
Total: $7,177.50
Total/month: $598.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 04/01/43
Hire date: 04/01/83
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 04/01/98
Department service: 14/03/00
Average salary: $36,000.00
Months of service: 171
Federal service ÷ total service: 0.950000
Total: $6,818.63
Total/month: $568.00
F. In this example, a police officer dies in the line of duty on July 31, 2001 after 18 years of departmental service. The survivor annuity is equal to 100 percent of the officer's pay at the time of death, as provided by District legislation effective October 1, 2000. However, the Federal Benefit Payment is calculated based on plan provisions in effect on June 29, 1997, which provided for a survivor annuity equal to 40 percent of the officer's pay at the time of death. Because the Federal Benefit Payment is not service-based and the officer had 167 months of service as of the freeze date and 216 months of service, including unused sick leave, at death, the Federal Benefit Payment equals 167/216ths of the total benefit calculated according to plan provisions in effect on July 1, 1997. The difference between the total benefit paid and the Federal Benefit Payment calculated according to plan provisions in effect on June 29, 1997 is the responsibility of the District government.
Example 13F—Police Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 07/13/62
Hire date: 08/01/83
Death date: 07/31/2001
Department service: 18/00/00
Average salary: $54,000.00
Final salary: $56,000.00
Months of service: 216
Total: $56,004.00
Total/month: $4,667.00
Total based on July 1, 1997 provisions: $21,600.00
Total/month based on July 1, 1997 provisions: $1,800.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 07/13/62
Hire date: 08/01/83
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 07/31/2001
Department service: 13/11/00
Months of service: 167
Federal service ÷ total service: 0.773148
Total: $16,704.00
Total/month: $1,392.00
G. In this example, a firefighter dies on July 1, 1999 at age 47 after retiring based on a disability in the line of duty in November 1997. At separation, the firefighter was not eligible for optional retirement but was eligible to receive a deferred retirement annuity at age 55. Therefore, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated based on the plan rules for deferred retirees. Under the Police and Firefighters Plan, if a separated police officer or firefighter eligible for deferred retirement dies before reaching age 55, the survivor is eligible to receive an annuity. The survivor annuity is based on the firefighter's adjusted average pay. Therefore, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is a prorated portion of the survivor annuity. Since the firefighter had 217 months of service as of the freeze date and 222 months of service at retirement, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment equals 217/222nds of the total survivor benefit.
Example 13G—Firefighters Disability/Early Voluntary Death Benefits
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 08/20/52
Hire date: 05/14/79
Separation date: 11/28/97
Death date: 07/01/99
Department service: 18/06/15
Adjusted average salary: $45,987.00
Months of service: 222
Total: $18,396.00
Total/month: $1,533.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 08/20/52
Hire date: 05/14/79
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 07/01/99
Department service: 18/01/17
Adjusted average salary: $45,987.00
Months of service: 217
Federal service ÷ total service: .977477
Total: $17,976.00
Total/month: $1,498.00
H. In this example, a teacher dies on August 3, 1999 at age 58 after retiring based on a disability in April 1998. At separation, the teacher was not eligible for optional retirement but was eligible to receive a deferred retirement annuity at age 62. Therefore, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated based on the plan rules for deferred retirees. Under the Teachers Plan, if a separated teacher eligible for deferred retirement dies before reaching age 62, the survivor is not eligible to receive an annuity. Therefore, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is zero and the survivor annuity is the full responsibility of the District.
Example 13H—Teachers Disability/Early Voluntary Death Benefits
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 08/01/41
Hire date: 07/01/76
Separation date: 04/30/98
Death date: 08/03/99
Total: $21,888.00
Total/month: $1,824.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 08/01/41
Hire date: 07/01/76
Separation date: 04/30/98
Death date: 08/03/99
Total: $0.00
Total/month: $0.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.0
Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) Examples
Example 14: Application of Cost of Living Adjustments
In cases in which the District plan applies the same cost of living adjustment that is provided for the Federal Benefit Payment, the federal percentage is applied to the new total benefit after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
A. In this example, a teacher retiree receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. The federal percentage for the retiree is applied to the new total benefit after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14A—Teachers COLA—Retiree W/Survivor Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at retirement)
Total unreduced: $42,464.13
Total unreduced/month: $3,539.00
Total/month: $3,207.00
Federal unreduced: $41,796.28
Federal unreduced/month: $3,483.00
Federal percentage = federal unreduced/month ÷ total unreduced/month: 0.984176
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 5%:
Total COLA: $160.00
New total/month: $3,367.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $3,314.00
B. In this example, a survivor of a deceased teacher retiree receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor benefit is service related, the federal percentage for the retiree is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14B—Teachers COLA—Survivor of Retiree
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at death of retiree whose annuity was based on service—percentage survivor election)
Total/month: $2,043.00
Federal percentage (retiree): 0.984176
Federal/month: $2,011.00
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 4.5%:
Total COLA: $92.00
New total/month: $2,135.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $2,101.00
C. In this example, a survivor of a deceased teacher retiree receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is non-service related, the federal percentage for the survivor is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14C—Teachers COLA—Survivor of Retiree
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at death of retiree—flat amount survivor election)
Total months of service: 404
Federal months of service: 398
Total/month: $1,000.00
Federal percentage = federal service ÷ total service: 0.985149
Federal/month: $985.00
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 4.5%:
Total COLA: $45.00
New total/month: $1,045.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $1,029.00
Note:
This method also applies to a percentage survivor election by a retiree whose annuity was based on a guaranteed minimum.
D. In this example, a survivor of a deceased teacher receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is service related, the federal percentage based on the deceased teacher's service is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14D—Teachers COLA—Survivor of Employee
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at death—based on service)
Total/month: $1,036.00
Federal/month: $1,000.00
Federal percentage = federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.965251
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate: 5%
Total COLA: $52.00
New total benefit/month: $1,088.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $1,050.00
E. In this example, a survivor of a deceased teacher receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is non-service related, the federal percentage for the survivor is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14E—Teachers COLA—Survivor of Employee
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at death—guaranteed minimum)
Total months of service: 180
Federal months of service: 171
Total/month: $598.00
Federal percentage = federal service ÷ total service: 0.950000
Federal/month: $568.00
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 5%:
Total COLA: $30.00
New total/month: $628.00
New federal benefit/month: = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $597.00
F. In this example, a survivor of a deceased retired police officer receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is non-service related, the federal percentage for the survivor is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14F—Police COLA—Survivor of Retiree
Benefit Computation (at death of retiree)
Total months of service: 240
Federal months of service: 236
Total/month: $1,614.00
Federal percentage = federal service ÷ total service: 0.983333
Federal/month: $1,587.00
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 5%:
Total COLA: $81.00
New total/month: $1,695.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $1,667.00
G. In this example, a survivor of a deceased firefighter receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is non-service related, the federal percentage for the survivor is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14G—Firefighter COLA—Survivor of Employee
Benefit Computation (at death of employee in the line of duty)
Total/month: $4,667.00
Federal/month: $1,867.00
Federal percentage = federal/month
÷ Total/month: 0.400043
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 4.5%:
Total COLA: $210.00
New total benefit/month: $4,877.00
New federal benefit/month = New total benefit/month × federal percentage = $1,951.00
H. In this example, a new District plan provision applies a different cost of living adjustment than is provided for the Federal Benefit Payment. In Variation 1, the federal cost of living adjustment is applied to the Federal Benefit Payment and the District cost of living adjustment is applied to the total benefit. In Variation 2, the federal cost of living adjustment is applied to the Federal Benefit Payment and the District cost of living adjustment is applied to the District benefit payment. A new federal percentage equal to the ratio of the Federal Benefit Payment to the total benefit is established after the adjustments.
Example 14H—Teachers COLA
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at retirement)
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/04/48
Hire date: 03/01/86
Separation date: 02/28/2013
Department service: 27/00/00
Other service paid in 1995: 06/07/28
Excess LWOP in 1990: 00/03/18
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $33,421.96
Total/month: $2,785.00
Benefit Computation (at retirement)
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/04/48
Hire date: 03/01/86
Freeze date: 06/30/1997
Department service: 11/04/00
Other service paid in 1995: 06/07/28
Excess LWOP in 1990: 00/03/18
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 7.666667
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $16,777.38
Total/month: $1,398.00
Federal percentage: 0.501975
COLA Computation Variations Variation 1
District COLA rate 5% applied to total benefit:
Total COLA: $139.00
New total benefit/month: $2,924.00
Federal COLA rate 4%
Federal COLA: $56.00
New federal benefit/month: $1,454.00
New federal percentage: 0.497264
Variation 2
District COLA rate 5% applied to District benefit:
Old District benefit/month: $1,387.00
District COLA: $69.00
New District benefit/month: $1,456.00
Federal COLA rate 4%:
Federal COLA: $56.00
New federal benefit/month: $1,454.00
New total benefit/month: $2,910.00
New federal percentage: 0.499656
Retroactive Payment of Accrued Annuity Example
Example 15: Accrual of Federal Benefit Payment
The Federal Benefit Payment begins to accrue on the annuity commencing date, regardless of whether the employee is added to the annuity roll in time for the regular payment cycle. If the employee is due a retroactive payment of accrued annuity, the portion of the retroactive payment that would have been a Federal Benefit Payment (if it were made in the regular payment cycle) is still a Federal Benefit Payment. In this example, a teacher retired effective September 11, 1998. She was added to the retirement rolls on the pay date November 1, 1998 (October 1 to October 31 accrual cycle). Her Federal Benefit Payment is $3000 per month and her total benefit payment is $3120 per month. Her initial check is $5200 because it includes a prorated payment for 20 days (September 11 to September 30). The Federal Benefit Payment is $5000 of the initial check ($3000 for the October cycle and $2000 for the September cycle).
Example 15—Teachers Accrued Benefit
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 09/01/66
Separation date: 09/10/98
Department service: 32/00/10
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 22
Average salary: $62,150.00
Total: $37,445.38
Total/month: $3,120.00
Sept 11-30: $2,080.00
Oct 1-31: $3,120.00
Nov 1-30: $3,120.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 09/01/66
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 30/10/00
.15 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 20.833333
Average salary: $62,150.00
Total: $35,995.21
Total/month: $3,000.00
Sept 11-30: $2,000.00
Oct 1-31: $3,000.00
Nov 1-30: $3,000.00

Subpart D—Claims and Appeals Procedures

[Source:65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

§ 29.401   Purpose.

(a) This subpart explains—
(1) The procedures that participants and beneficiaries in the Judges Plan, Police and Firefighters Plan, and the Teachers Plan must follow in applying for Federal Benefit Payments;
(2) The procedures for determining an individual's eligibility for a Federal Benefit Payment and the amount and form of an individual's Federal Benefit Payment as required by sections 11021 and 11251(a) (codified at DC Official Code section 11-1570(c)(2)(a)) of the Act;
(3) The appeal rights available under section 11022(a) of the Act and section 3 of the 2004 Act (codified at DC Official Code section 11-1570(c)(3)) to claimants whose claim for Federal Benefit Payments is denied in whole or in part; and
(4) The special rules for processing competing claimant cases.
(b) This subpart does not apply to processing collection of debts due to the United States.
(c) This part does not apply to claims and appeals filed before October 1, 1997. Such claims must be pursued with the District of Columbia.
[[65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 60005, Oct. 14, 2005]]

§ 29.402   Definitions.

In this subpart—
Beneficiary means an individual designated by a participant, or by the terms of the Judges Plan, Police and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan, who is or may become entitled to a benefit under those plans.
Beneficiary
means an individual designated by a participant, or by the terms of the Judges Plan, Police and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan, who is or may become entitled to a benefit under those plans.
Claimant means any person seeking a benefit for themselves or another under the Judges Plan, Police and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan.
Claimant
means any person seeking a benefit for themselves or another under the Judges Plan, Police and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan.
Department means the Secretary of the Treasury or a designee authorized to exercise the Secretary's authority with respect to Federal Benefit Payments under the Act.
Department
means the Secretary of the Treasury or a designee authorized to exercise the Secretary's authority with respect to Federal Benefit Payments under the Act.
Participant means an individual who is or may become eligible to receive a benefit under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan based on credit for service accrued as of June 30, 1997, or under the Judges Plan, or whose beneficiaries may be eligible to receive any such benefit.
Participant
means an individual who is or may become eligible to receive a benefit under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan based on credit for service accrued as of June 30, 1997, or under the Judges Plan, or whose beneficiaries may be eligible to receive any such benefit.
[[65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 60005, Oct. 14, 2005]]

§ 29.403   Applications filed with the Benefits Administrator.

All claimants for Federal Benefit Payments must file applications for benefits (including applications for retirement, refunds of contributions, and death benefits) with the Benefits Administrator.

§ 29.404   Initial benefit determinations and reconsideration by the Benefits Administrator.

(a) Initial benefit determinations. The Benefits Administrator will process applications for Federal Benefit Payments and determine the eligibility for and the amount and form of Federal Benefit Payments. All initial benefit determination decisions which may reasonably be construed as a denial (in whole or part) of a claim for Federal Benefit Payments must be in writing, must advise claimants of their right to request reconsideration under paragraph (b), of this section and must state the time limits applicable to such a request.
Initial benefit determinations.
The Benefits Administrator will process applications for Federal Benefit Payments and determine the eligibility for and the amount and form of Federal Benefit Payments. All initial benefit determination decisions which may reasonably be construed as a denial (in whole or part) of a claim for Federal Benefit Payments must be in writing, must advise claimants of their right to request reconsideration under paragraph (b), of this section and must state the time limits applicable to such a request.
(b) Claimant's right to reconsideration of benefit denials. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, claimants who disagree with the amount or form of a Federal Benefit Payment determination and wish to contest the determination must first request the Benefits Administrator to reconsider its determination.
Claimant's right to reconsideration of benefit denials.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, claimants who disagree with the amount or form of a Federal Benefit Payment determination and wish to contest the determination must first request the Benefits Administrator to reconsider its determination.
(2) A decision to collect a debt is not a denial of a benefit claim under this section.
(c) Form and timing of requests for reconsideration. (1) A request for reconsideration must be in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth and claim number, if applicable, and must state the basis for the request.
Form and timing of requests for reconsideration.
(1) A request for reconsideration must be in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth and claim number, if applicable, and must state the basis for the request.
(2) A request for reconsideration must be received by the Benefits Administrator within 30 calendar days from the date of the written notice of the initial benefit determination.
(d) Reconsideration decisions. A reconsideration decision by the Benefits Administrator denying (in whole or part) a claim for a Federal Benefit Payment must—
Reconsideration decisions.
A reconsideration decision by the Benefits Administrator denying (in whole or part) a claim for a Federal Benefit Payment must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Provide adequate notice of such denial, setting forth the specific reason for the denial in a manner calculated to be understood by the average participant; and
(3) Provide notice of the right to appeal the Benefit Administrator's decision to the Department, the address to which such an appeal must be submitted, and the time limits applicable to such an appeal.
(e) Appeal of reconsideration decisions. The Department will review an appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.405.
Appeal of reconsideration decisions.
The Department will review an appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.405.

§ 29.405   Appeals to the Department.

(a) Who may file. Any claimant whose claim for a Federal Benefit Payment has been denied (in whole or part) by the Benefits Administrator in a reconsideration decision under § 29.404(d) may appeal that decision to the Department.
Who may file.
Any claimant whose claim for a Federal Benefit Payment has been denied (in whole or part) by the Benefits Administrator in a reconsideration decision under § 29.404(d) may appeal that decision to the Department.
(b) Form of appeal. An appeal must be in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth and claim number, if applicable, and must state the basis for the appeal.
Form of appeal.
An appeal must be in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth and claim number, if applicable, and must state the basis for the appeal.
(c) Time limits on Appeals. (1) An appeal must be received by the Department within 30 calendar days from the date of the reconsideration decision under § 29.404(d).
Time limits on Appeals.
(1) An appeal must be received by the Department within 30 calendar days from the date of the reconsideration decision under § 29.404(d).
(2) The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the claimant shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason.
(d) Final decision. After consideration of the appeal, the Department will issue a final decision. The Department's decision must be in writing, must fully set forth the Department's findings and conclusions on the appeal, and must contain notice of the right to judicial review provided in § 29.406. Copies of the final decision must be sent to the claimant seeking appeal, to any competing claimants (see § 29.407) and to the Benefits Administrator.
Final decision.
After consideration of the appeal, the Department will issue a final decision. The Department's decision must be in writing, must fully set forth the Department's findings and conclusions on the appeal, and must contain notice of the right to judicial review provided in § 29.406. Copies of the final decision must be sent to the claimant seeking appeal, to any competing claimants (
see
§ 29.407) and to the Benefits Administrator.

§ 29.406   Judicial review.

An individual whose claim for a Federal Benefit Payment has been denied (in whole or part) in a final decision by the Department under § 29.405 may, within 180 days of the date of the final decision, file a civil action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Any such civil action must be filed in accordance with the rules of that court.

§ 29.407   Competing claimants.

(a) Competing claimants are applicants for survivor benefits based on the service of a participant when—
Competing claimants
are applicants for survivor benefits based on the service of a participant when—
(1) A benefit is payable based on the service of the participant;
(2) Two or more claimants have applied for benefits based on the service of the participant; and
(3) A decision in favor of one claimant will adversely affect another claimant(s).
(b)(1) When a competing claimant files a request for reconsideration under this section, the other competing claimants shall be notified of the request and given an opportunity to submit written substantiation of their claim.
(2) When the Benefits Administrator receives an application from a competing claimant(s) before any payments are made based upon the service of the participant, and an initial determination of benefits in favor of one claimant adversely affects another claimant, all known claimants concerned will be notified in writing of that decision and those adversely affected will be given an opportunity to request reconsideration under the procedures and time limitations set forth in § 29.404(c). The Benefits Administrator must not execute its decision until the time limit for filing a request for reconsideration has expired, or, if a reconsideration decision is made, until the time limit for filing an appeal to the Department has expired or the Department has issued a final decision on a timely appeal, whichever is later.
(3) When the Benefits Administrator does not receive an application from a competing claimant(s) until after another person has begun to receive payments based upon the service of the participant, the payments will continue until the time limit for filing a request for reconsideration has expired, or, if a reconsideration decision is made, until the time limit for filing an appeal to the Department has expired or the Department has issued a final decision on a timely appeal, whichever is later.

Subpart E—Debt Collection and Waivers of Collection

[Source:66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

§ 29.501   Purpose; incorporation by reference; scope.

(a) This subpart regulates—
(1) The recovery of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments;
(2) The standards for waiver of recovery of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments; and
(3) The use of Federal Benefit Payments to recover certain other debts due the United States.
(b) The regulations of this subpart incorporate by this reference all provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) (parts 900-904 of Title 31, Code of Federal Regulations), and supplement those regulations by the prescription of procedures and directives necessary and appropriate for the operation and administration of the Retirement Funds. To the extent they are not inconsistent with the regulations contained in this subpart, the regulations in part 5 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, also apply to the collection of debts under this subpart.
(c)(1) Debts based on fraud, misrepresentation, or the presentation of a false claim. This subpart does not apply to any overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments which arose, in whole or in part, due to fraud, misrepresentation, or the presentation of a false claim by the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim. Such debts should be referred by the Benefits Administrator immediately to the U.S. Justice Department for action pursuant to 31 CFR 900.3.
Debts based on fraud, misrepresentation, or the presentation of a false claim.
This subpart does not apply to any overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments which arose, in whole or in part, due to fraud, misrepresentation, or the presentation of a false claim by the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim. Such debts should be referred by the Benefits Administrator immediately to the U.S. Justice Department for action pursuant to 31 CFR 900.3.
(2) Tax debts. This subpart does not apply to tax debts.
Tax debts.
This subpart does not apply to tax debts.
(d)(1) Sections 29.501 through 29.506 state the rules of general applicability to this subpart.
(2) Sections 29.511 through 29.520 prescribe procedures to be followed by the Benefits Administrator which are consistent with the FCCS in the collection of debts owed to the Retirement Funds.
(3) Sections 29.521 through 29.526 prescribe the standards that the Department will apply in decisions to waive recoupment or recovery of overpayments from the Retirement Funds under sections 11021(3) and 11251(c)(2)(B) of the Act.
(e) This part does not apply to debt collection claims asserted and requests for waivers of collection initiated before October 1, 1997. Such debt collection claims must be pursued by the District of Columbia and such requests for waivers of collection must be pursued with the District of Columbia.
[[66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001, as amended at 70 FR 60005, Oct. 14, 2005]]

§ 29.502   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart—
Additional charges means interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs owed on a debt.
Additional charges
means interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs owed on a debt.
Administrative offset, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the United States.
Administrative offset,
as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the United States.
Agency means:
Agency
means:
(1) An Executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, including the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission;
(2) A military department, as defined in section 102 of title 5, United States Code;
(3) An agency or court in the judicial branch, including a court as defined in section 610 of title 28, United States Code, the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation;
(4) An agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives; and
(5) Other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government.
Annuitant means a retired participant, former spouse, spouse, widow(er), child or other beneficiary receiving recurring Federal Benefit Payments.
Annuitant
means a retired participant, former spouse, spouse, widow(er), child or other beneficiary receiving recurring Federal Benefit Payments.
Annuity means the monthly benefit (including a retirement salary under the Judges Plan) of indefinite duration payable to an annuitant.
Annuity
means the monthly benefit (including a retirement salary under the Judges Plan) of indefinite duration payable to an annuitant.
Anticipated expenses means expenditures which are expected to occur and for which the debtor can provide documentation of the estimated cost.
Anticipated expenses
means expenditures which are expected to occur and for which the debtor can provide documentation of the estimated cost.
Beneficiary means an individual designated by a participant, or by the terms of the Judges Plan, Police Officers and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan, who is or may become entitled to a benefit under those plans.
Beneficiary
means an individual designated by a participant, or by the terms of the Judges Plan, Police Officers and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan, who is or may become entitled to a benefit under those plans.
Change of position for the worse means an individual would be left in a worse financial position after recovery of the overpayment than prior to the receipt of the overpayment because the individual reasonably relied on the amount of the overpayment to his or her detriment. For example, an individual has “changed position for the worse” if he or she made expenditures or assumed new liabilities that he or she would not have otherwise done, and he or she is unable to withdraw from the commitment without incurring significant financial loss.
Change of position for the worse
means an individual would be left in a worse financial position after recovery of the overpayment than prior to the receipt of the overpayment because the individual reasonably relied on the amount of the overpayment to his or her detriment. For example, an individual has “changed position for the worse” if he or she made expenditures or assumed new liabilities that he or she would not have otherwise done, and he or she is unable to withdraw from the commitment without incurring significant financial loss.
Compromise means accepting less than payment in full in satisfaction of a debt.
Compromise
means accepting less than payment in full in satisfaction of a debt.
Consent means the debtor has agreed in writing to administrative offset of one or more Federal Benefit Payments after receiving notice of the available rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and this subpart; to Federal salary offset after receiving notice of the available rights under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 CFR part 5; and to judgment offset under section 124 of Public Law 97-276, 96 Stat. 1195-1196.
Consent
means the debtor has agreed in writing to administrative offset of one or more Federal Benefit Payments after receiving notice of the available rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and this subpart; to Federal salary offset after receiving notice of the available rights under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 CFR part 5; and to judgment offset under section 124 of Public Law 97-276, 96 Stat. 1195-1196.
Credit bureau has the same meaning as the definition of “consumer reporting agency” provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3).
Credit bureau
has the same meaning as the definition of “consumer reporting agency” provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3).
Creditor agency means the agency to which a debt is owed.
Creditor agency
means the agency to which a debt is owed.
Debt has the same meaning as the definition of “debt” provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(b)(1), and includes an overpayment of Federal Benefit Payments.
Debt
has the same meaning as the definition of “debt” provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(b)(1), and includes an overpayment of Federal Benefit Payments.
Debtor means a person who owes a debt or from whom a debt is to be recovered, including an annuitant.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt or from whom a debt is to be recovered, including an annuitant.
Delinquent means delinquent as defined in 31 CFR 900.2(b).
Delinquent
means delinquent as defined in 31 CFR 900.2(b).
Department means the Secretary of the Treasury or a designee authorized to exercise the Secretary's authority with respect to Federal Benefit Payments under the Act.
Department
means the Secretary of the Treasury or a designee authorized to exercise the Secretary's authority with respect to Federal Benefit Payments under the Act.
FCCS means the Federal Claims Collection Standards (parts 900-904 of Title 31, Code of Federal Regulations).
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards (parts 900-904 of Title 31, Code of Federal Regulations).
Liquid asset means cash or other property readily convertible into cash with little or no loss of value.
Liquid asset
means cash or other property readily convertible into cash with little or no loss of value.
Lump-sum credit means:
Lump-sum credit
means:
(1) Under the Judges Plan, the Police Officers and Firefighters Plan, and the Teachers Plan, the unrefunded amount consisting of—
(i) Retirement contributions from the basic salary of a participant;
(ii) Amounts deposited covering earlier creditable service; and
(iii) Such interest as authorized by statute to be included in the payment of refunds of retirement contributions; and
(2) Under the Judges Plan, “lump-sum credit for survivor annuity” is defined in section 11-1561(10) of the D.C. Code.
Offset means to withhold the amount of a debt, or a portion of that amount, from one or more payments due the debtor. Offset also means the amount withheld in this manner.
Offset
means to withhold the amount of a debt, or a portion of that amount, from one or more payments due the debtor. Offset also means the amount withheld in this manner.
Ordinary and necessary living expenses means such expenses as rent, mortgage payments, utilities, maintenance, food (including expenses for dining out), clothing, insurance (life, health, and accident), taxes, installment payments, medical expenses, reasonable expenses for recreation and vacations, expenses for support of a dependent when the debtor holds primary or joint legal responsibility for such support, and other miscellaneous expenses that the debtor can establish as being ordinary and necessary.
Ordinary and necessary living expenses
means such expenses as rent, mortgage payments, utilities, maintenance, food (including expenses for dining out), clothing, insurance (life, health, and accident), taxes, installment payments, medical expenses, reasonable expenses for recreation and vacations, expenses for support of a dependent when the debtor holds primary or joint legal responsibility for such support, and other miscellaneous expenses that the debtor can establish as being ordinary and necessary.
Overpayment or overpayment debt means a payment of one or more Federal Benefit Payments to an individual in the absence of entitlement or in excess of the amount to which an individual is properly entitled.
Overpayment
or
overpayment debt
means a payment of one or more Federal Benefit Payments to an individual in the absence of entitlement or in excess of the amount to which an individual is properly entitled.
Participant means an individual who is or may become eligible to receive a benefit under the Police Officers and Firefighters Plan or Teachers Plan based on credit for service accrued as of June 30, 1997, or under the Judges Plan, or whose beneficiaries may be eligible to receive any such benefit.
Participant
means an individual who is or may become eligible to receive a benefit under the Police Officers and Firefighters Plan or Teachers Plan based on credit for service accrued as of June 30, 1997, or under the Judges Plan, or whose beneficiaries may be eligible to receive any such benefit.
Refund means the payment of a lump-sum credit to an individual who meets all requirements for payment and files an application for it.
Refund
means the payment of a lump-sum credit to an individual who meets all requirements for payment and files an application for it.
Relinquish a valuable right means the individual has relinquished a valuable privilege, claim, entitlement, or benefit having monetary worth because of the overpayment or because of notice that such a payment would be made.
Relinquish a valuable right
means the individual has relinquished a valuable privilege, claim, entitlement, or benefit having monetary worth because of the overpayment or because of notice that such a payment would be made.
Repayment schedule means the amount of each payment and the number of payments to be made to liquidate the debt as determined by the Department or the Benefits Administrator.
Repayment schedule
means the amount of each payment and the number of payments to be made to liquidate the debt as determined by the Department or the Benefits Administrator.
Salary offset means any offset authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716.
Salary offset
means any offset authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716.
Substantially all, as used in § 29.524, means that a debtor's income is less than or equal to his or her ordinary and necessary expenses plus a reasonable monthly allowance for unexpected or emergency expenses and does not allow for the deduction of a reasonable monthly installment payment to recover the debt.
Substantially all,
as used in § 29.524, means that a debtor's income is less than or equal to his or her ordinary and necessary expenses plus a reasonable monthly allowance for unexpected or emergency expenses and does not allow for the deduction of a reasonable monthly installment payment to recover the debt.
Voluntary repayment agreement means an agreement wherein the debtor makes installment payments to repay an overpayment debt in accordance with a repayment schedule agreed to by the Benefits Administrator or the Department.
Voluntary repayment agreement
means an agreement wherein the debtor makes installment payments to repay an overpayment debt in accordance with a repayment schedule agreed to by the Benefits Administrator or the Department.
Waiver means a decision not to recover all or part of an overpayment debt owed to the Retirement Funds under authority of sections 11021(3) or 11251(c)(2)(B) of the Act.
Waiver
means a decision not to recover all or part of an overpayment debt owed to the Retirement Funds under authority of sections 11021(3) or 11251(c)(2)(B) of the Act.

§ 29.503   Prohibition against collection of debts.

(a) Debts may be collected from Federal Benefit Payments only to the extent expressly authorized by Federal debt collection statutes and any other applicable Federal law.
(b) When collection of a debt from Federal Benefit Payments is authorized under paragraph (a) of this section, the collection will be made in accordance with this subpart and other applicable federal law.

§ 29.504   Status of debts.

A payment of a Federal Benefit Payment to a debtor because of an error on the part of the Department or Benefits Administrator, or the failure of the creditor agency to properly and/or timely submit a debt claim, does not erase the debt or affect the validity of the claim by the creditor agency.

§ 29.505   Compromise of debts; termination and suspension of collection actions.

The procedures for compromise of a claim for an overpayment or the termination or suspension of a collection action seeking to recover an overpayment, other than waiver of an overpayment under §§ 29.521 through 29.526, are controlled exclusively by the FCCS and 31 CFR part 5.

§ 29.506   Recovery of other debts owed to the United States.

(a) Procedures for Creditor Agencies. Agencies seeking to recover a debt by offset of Federal Benefit Payments payable to the debtor must comply with the offset procedures set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS. A creditor agency may seek to collect a debt through offset of Federal Benefit Payments pursuant to the Department's procedures for administrative offset set forth in 31 CFR part 5.
Procedures for Creditor Agencies.
Agencies seeking to recover a debt by offset of Federal Benefit Payments payable to the debtor must comply with the offset procedures set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS. A creditor agency may seek to collect a debt through offset of Federal Benefit Payments pursuant to the Department's procedures for administrative offset set forth in 31 CFR part 5.
(b) Offset by the Benefits Administrator. As required by 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), the Benefits Administrator must compare payment records of the Retirement Funds with records of debts submitted to the Financial Management Service for collection by administrative offset, and must offset payments to satisfy, in whole or in part, debts owed by any annuitant.
Offset by the Benefits Administrator.
As required by 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), the Benefits Administrator must compare payment records of the Retirement Funds with records of debts submitted to the Financial Management Service for collection by administrative offset, and must offset payments to satisfy, in whole or in part, debts owed by any annuitant.

Collection of Overpayments


§ 29.511   Demand letters.

Except as provided in § 29.516(e), before starting collection action to recover an overpayment, the Benefits Administrator must send a demand letter that informs the debtor in writing—
(a) That an overpayment has occurred, the amount of the overpayment, and the facts giving rise to the overpayment;
(b) The date by which payment of the debt should be made to avoid additional charges (i.e., interest, penalties and administrative costs) permitted by the FCCS and enforced collection;
i.e.
, interest, penalties and administrative costs) permitted by the FCCS and enforced collection;
(c) The requirement that any overpayment debt delinquent for more than 180 days be transferred to the Department of the Treasury's Financial Management Service for collection;
(d) The name, address, and phone number of the appropriate person or office the debtor may contact about the debt;
(e) The remedies which may be used to enforce payment of the debt, including assessment of interest, administrative costs and penalties; administrative wage garnishment; the use of collection agencies; Federal salary offset; tax refund offset; administrative offset; and litigation.
(f) Whether offset is available and, if so, the types of payment(s) to be offset or eligible for offset, the repayment schedule (if any), the right to request an adjustment in the repayment schedule, and the right to request a voluntary repayment agreement in lieu of offset;
(g) An explanation of the Department's policy on interest, penalties, and administrative costs as set forth in 31 CFR part 5, the FCCS, and 31 U.S.C. 3717, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the FCCS;
(h) The debtor's opportunity to request repayment in installments if the debtor can show an inability to repay the debt in one lump sum;
(i) The debtor's opportunity to inspect and/or receive a copy of the records relating to the overpayment;
(j) The method and time period (60 calendar days) for requesting reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise of the overpayment;
(k) That all requests for waiver or compromise must be accompanied by a disclosure of the debtor's financial condition and ability to pay the debt;
(l) The standards used by the Department in deciding requests for waiver (set forth in §§ 29.521 through 29.526) and compromise (set forth in 31 CFR 902.2); and
(m) The fact that a timely filing of a request for reconsideration, waiver and/or compromise, or a subsequent timely appeal of a reconsideration decision, will stop collection proceedings, unless—
(1) Failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice the Federal Government's ability to collect the debt; and
(2) The time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of these procedures.

§ 29.512   Reconsideration by the Benefits Administrator.

(a) Right to reconsideration of overpayment determinations. Individuals who receive a demand letter and who wish to contest the existence or amount of the overpayment may ask the Benefits Administrator to reconsider the determination.
Right to reconsideration of overpayment determinations.
Individuals who receive a demand letter and who wish to contest the existence or amount of the overpayment may ask the Benefits Administrator to reconsider the determination.
(b) Requests for waiver or compromise. Individuals who wish to seek waiver or compromise of the overpayment may file such requests with the Department under § 29.514. An individual may file a request for reconsideration in addition to a request for waiver or compromise.
Requests for waiver or compromise.
Individuals who wish to seek waiver or compromise of the overpayment may file such requests with the Department under § 29.514. An individual may file a request for reconsideration in addition to a request for waiver or compromise.
(c) Form and timing of requests for reconsideration. (1) A request for reconsideration must be in writing and must state the basis for the request. Individuals requesting reconsideration will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position and should, to the extent possible, include such information and documentation in their request.
Form and timing of requests for reconsideration.
(1) A request for reconsideration must be in writing and must state the basis for the request. Individuals requesting reconsideration will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position and should, to the extent possible, include such information and documentation in their request.
(2) A request for reconsideration must be received by the Benefits Administrator within 60 calendar days of the date of the demand letter. The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason.
(3) When a request for reconsideration covered by this subpart is properly filed before the death of the debtor, it will be processed to completion unless the relief sought is nullified by the debtor's death.
(d) Reconsideration decisions. (1) The Benefits Administrator's decision on a request for reconsideration will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information.
Reconsideration decisions.
(1) The Benefits Administrator's decision on a request for reconsideration will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information.
(2) A reconsideration decision by the Benefits Administrator must—
(i) Be in writing;
(ii) Provide notice of the extent of the individual's liability for the overpayment, if any;
(iii) If the individual is determined to be liable for all or a portion of the overpayment, reaffirm or modify the conditions for the collection of the overpayment previously proposed in the demand letter;
(iv) Provide notice of the right to appeal the Benefits Administrator's decision to the Department, the address to which such an appeal must be submitted, and the time limits applicable to such an appeal; and
(v) State that a timely appeal of the Benefits Administrator's decision to the Department will suspend action to collect the debt.
(e) Appeal of reconsideration decisions. The Department will review an appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.513.
Appeal of reconsideration decisions.
The Department will review an appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.513.

§ 29.513   Appeals to the Department.

(a) Form of appeal. An appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.512 must be in writing and must state the basis for the appeal.
Form of appeal.
An appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.512 must be in writing and must state the basis for the appeal.
(b) Time limits on appeals. (1) An appeal must be received by the Department within 60 calendar days from the date of the reconsideration decision.
Time limits on appeals.
(1) An appeal must be received by the Department within 60 calendar days from the date of the reconsideration decision.
(2) The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason.
(c) Final decision. After consideration of the appeal, the Department will issue a final decision. The Department's decision will be in writing, will fully set forth the Department's findings and conclusions on the appeal, and will contain notice of the right to judicial review provided in § 29.515. If the Department determines that the individual is liable for all or a portion of the overpayment, the decision also will contain the conditions for the collection of the overpayment. Copies of the final decision will be sent to the individual seeking appeal and to the Benefits Administrator.
Final decision.
After consideration of the appeal, the Department will issue a final decision. The Department's decision will be in writing, will fully set forth the Department's findings and conclusions on the appeal, and will contain notice of the right to judicial review provided in § 29.515. If the Department determines that the individual is liable for all or a portion of the overpayment, the decision also will contain the conditions for the collection of the overpayment. Copies of the final decision will be sent to the individual seeking appeal and to the Benefits Administrator.

§ 29.514   Requests for waiver and/or compromise.

(a) Right to request waiver and/or compromise. Individuals who receive a demand letter regarding an overpayment may ask the Department to waive and/or compromise, in whole or part, the amount of the overpayment.
Right to request waiver and/or compromise.
Individuals who receive a demand letter regarding an overpayment may ask the Department to waive and/or compromise, in whole or part, the amount of the overpayment.
(b) Requests for reconsideration. Individuals who have filed a request for reconsideration under § 29.512 may also request a waiver and/or compromise under this section.
Requests for reconsideration.
Individuals who have filed a request for reconsideration under § 29.512 may also request a waiver and/or compromise under this section.
(c) Form and timing of requests for waiver and/or compromise. (1) A request for waiver and/or compromise must be in writing and must state the basis for the request. Individuals making such requests will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position and should, to the extent possible, include such information and documentation in their request. Individuals seeking waiver or compromise of an overpayment must also submit required financial information identified in the demand letter.
Form and timing of requests for waiver and/or compromise.
(1) A request for waiver and/or compromise must be in writing and must state the basis for the request. Individuals making such requests will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position and should, to the extent possible, include such information and documentation in their request. Individuals seeking waiver or compromise of an overpayment must also submit required financial information identified in the demand letter.
(2) A request for waiver or compromise must be filed with the Department. If the request is sent by mail, it must be postmarked within 60 calendar days of the date of the demand letter. If the request is hand delivered or delivered electronically, it must be received within 60 calendar days of the date of the demand letter. The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason.
(3) When a request for waiver and/or compromise under this section is properly filed before the death of the debtor, it will be processed to completion unless the relief sought is nullified by the debtor's death.
(d) Waiver and/or compromise decisions. (1) The Department's decision on a request for waiver and/or compromise will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information. An individual's request for waiver will be evaluated by the standards set forth in §§ 29.521 through 29.526. An individual's request for compromise will be evaluated by the standards set forth in the FCCS in 31 CFR part 902.
Waiver and/or compromise decisions.
(1) The Department's decision on a request for waiver and/or compromise will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information. An individual's request for waiver will be evaluated by the standards set forth in §§ 29.521 through 29.526. An individual's request for compromise will be evaluated by the standards set forth in the FCCS in 31 CFR part 902.
(2) A waiver or compromise decision by the Department will—
(i) Be in writing;
(ii) Provide notice of whether the overpayment will be waived or compromised, and the extent to which the individual is still liable for the overpayment, if at all;
(iii) If the individual is determined to be liable for all or a portion of the overpayment, reaffirm or modify the conditions for the collection of the overpayment previously proposed in the demand letter; and
(iv) Be issued within 120 calendar days from the Department's receipt of a timely request for waiver and/or compromise. This time limit does not apply to requests for compromise that are referred to the Department of Justice for consideration pursuant to 31 CFR 902.1(b).

§ 29.515   Judicial review.

An individual whose request for reconsideration has been denied (in whole or part) in a final decision by the Department under § 29.513 may, within 180 days of the date of the final decision, file a civil action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Any such civil action must be filed in accordance with the rules of that court.

§ 29.516   Collection of overpayments.

(a) Means of collection. Collection of an overpayment may be made by means of offset under § 29.517, or under any statutory provision providing for offset of money due the debtor from the Federal Government including, but not limited to, Federal Benefit Payments. Collection may also be effected by referral to the Justice Department for litigation, as provided in § 29.520, or referral to a collection agency as provided in § 29.519, or by other means authorized by federal law.
Means of collection.
Collection of an overpayment may be made by means of offset under § 29.517, or under any statutory provision providing for offset of money due the debtor from the Federal Government including, but not limited to, Federal Benefit Payments. Collection may also be effected by referral to the Justice Department for litigation, as provided in § 29.520, or referral to a collection agency as provided in § 29.519, or by other means authorized by federal law.
(b) Additional charges. Interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be assessed on the overpayment in accordance with standards established in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR 901.9. Additional charges will be waived when required by the FCCS. The Department will waive the collection of interest on the overpayment pending the Benefits Administrator's consideration of a request for reconsideration and the Department's consideration of a request for waiver and/or compromise or the appeal of a reconsideration decision. In addition, such charges may be waived when the Department determines—
Additional charges.
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be assessed on the overpayment in accordance with standards established in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR 901.9. Additional charges will be waived when required by the FCCS. The Department will waive the collection of interest on the overpayment pending the Benefits Administrator's consideration of a request for reconsideration and the Department's consideration of a request for waiver and/or compromise or the appeal of a reconsideration decision. In addition, such charges may be waived when the Department determines—
(1) Collection of those charges would be against equity and good conscience under the standards prescribed in §§ 29.523 through 29.525; or
(2) Waiver of those charges would be in the best interest of the United States.
(c) Collection in installments. (1) Whenever feasible, overpayments will be collected in one lump sum.
Collection in installments.
(1) Whenever feasible, overpayments will be collected in one lump sum.
(2) However, installment payments may be effected when—
(i) The debtor establishes that he or she is financially unable to pay in one lump sum; or
(ii)(A) The benefit payable is insufficient to make collection in one lump sum;
(B) The debtor fails to respond to a demand for full payment; and
(C) Offset is available.
(d) Offset Amount. (1) The amount offset from a monthly Federal Benefit Payment will be the lesser of:
Offset Amount.
(1) The amount offset from a monthly Federal Benefit Payment will be the lesser of:
(i) The amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties and administrative costs;
(ii) An amount equal to 15 percent of the monthly Federal Benefit Payment; or
(iii) The amount, if any, by which the monthly Federal Benefit Payment exceeds $750.
(2) For purposes of this subsection, the “monthly Federal Benefit Payment” is the amount of the gross monthly benefit after any reductions or deductions required under law, including reductions made to recover overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments.
(e) Commencement of collection. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, collection will begin after the time limits for requesting further rights stated in §§ 29.512 through 29.514 expire and no such requests have been made, or after the Benefits Administrator and/or the Department have issued decisions on all timely requests for or appeals of those rights, unless failure to make an offset would substantially prejudice the Department's ability to collect the overpayment and the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of the proceedings in §§ 29.511 through 29.514 or litigation. When offset begins without completion of the administrative review process, these procedures will be completed promptly, and amounts recovered by offset but later found not owed will be refunded promptly.
Commencement of collection.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, collection will begin after the time limits for requesting further rights stated in §§ 29.512 through 29.514 expire and no such requests have been made, or after the Benefits Administrator and/or the Department have issued decisions on all timely requests for or appeals of those rights, unless failure to make an offset would substantially prejudice the Department's ability to collect the overpayment and the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of the proceedings in §§ 29.511 through 29.514 or litigation. When offset begins without completion of the administrative review process, these procedures will be completed promptly, and amounts recovered by offset but later found not owed will be refunded promptly.
(2) The procedures identified in §§ 29.511 through 29.514 will not be applied when the overpayment is caused by—
(i) A retroactive adjustment in the periodic rate of annuity or any deduction taken from annuity when the adjustment is a result of the annuitant's election of different entitlements under law, if the adjustment is made within 120 days of the effective date of the election; or
(ii) interim estimated payments made before the formal determination of entitlement to annuity, if the amount is recouped from the total annuity payable on the first day of the month following the later of—
(A) The last interim payment or
(B) The date the formal determination is made.
(f) Collection of delinquent debts—(1) Debts delinquent over 180 days. The Benefits Administrator must refer all overpayment debts that are over 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for collection pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 3716, and 31 CFR part 901.
Collection of delinquent debts
—(1)
Debts delinquent over 180 days.
The Benefits Administrator must refer all overpayment debts that are over 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for collection pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 3716, and 31 CFR part 901.
(2) Debts delinquent less than 180 days. Once an overpayment debt becomes delinquent, the Benefits Administrator should refer it to the Secretary for collection by centralized administrative offset pursuant to 31 CFR 901.3, unless collection of the debt by some other means is likely to occur in a more timely and efficient manner.
Debts delinquent less than 180 days.
Once an overpayment debt becomes delinquent, the Benefits Administrator should refer it to the Secretary for collection by centralized administrative offset pursuant to 31 CFR 901.3, unless collection of the debt by some other means is likely to occur in a more timely and efficient manner.
(3) Once a debt is referred under this subsection, the Benefits Administrator has no further obligation to collect the debt.

§ 29.517   Collection by offset.

(a) Offset from retirement payments. An overpayment may be collected in whole or in part from any refund payment or recurring Federal Benefit Payments.
Offset from retirement payments.
An overpayment may be collected in whole or in part from any refund payment or recurring Federal Benefit Payments.
(b) Offset from other payments—(1) Administrative offset. When offset under subsection (a) is not available, an overpayment may be offset from other Federal payments due the debtor from other agencies under the procedures set forth in 31 CFR part 5 and 31 CFR 901.3(c).
Offset from other payments
—(1)
Administrative offset.
When offset under subsection (a) is not available, an overpayment may be offset from other Federal payments due the debtor from other agencies under the procedures set forth in 31 CFR part 5 and 31 CFR 901.3(c).
(2) Salary offset. When the debtor is an employee of the Federal Government, the Department may effect collection of an overpayment by offset of the debtor's pay in accordance with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 (see 5 CFR part 550, subpart K; 31 CFR 285.7; and 31 CFR part 5). Due process described in the federal salary offset regulations of 31 CFR part 5 will apply. When the debtor did not receive a hearing under those regulations and requests such a hearing, one will be conducted in accordance with 5 CFR part 550, subpart K and 31 CFR part 5.
Salary offset.
When the debtor is an employee of the Federal Government, the Department may effect collection of an overpayment by offset of the debtor's pay in accordance with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 (see 5 CFR part 550, subpart K; 31 CFR 285.7; and 31 CFR part 5). Due process described in the federal salary offset regulations of 31 CFR part 5 will apply. When the debtor did not receive a hearing under those regulations and requests such a hearing, one will be conducted in accordance with 5 CFR part 550, subpart K and 31 CFR part 5.
(3) Tax refund offset. The Department may effect collection of an overpayment by offset of the debtor's tax refund in accordance with the Department's tax refund offset regulations found at 31 CFR part 5.
Tax refund offset.
The Department may effect collection of an overpayment by offset of the debtor's tax refund in accordance with the Department's tax refund offset regulations found at 31 CFR part 5.

§ 29.518   Reporting delinquent debts to credit bureaus.

(a) Notice. If a debtor's response to the demand letter does not result in payment in full, payment by offset, or payment in accordance with a voluntary repayment agreement or other repayment schedule acceptable to the Benefits Administrator, and the debtor's rights under §§ 29.512 through 29.514 have been exhausted, the Benefits Administrator must report the debtor to a credit bureau. In addition, a debtor's failure to make subsequent payments in accordance with a repayment schedule must result in a report to a credit bureau. Before making a report to a credit bureau, the Benefits Administrator must notify the debtor in writing that—
Notice.
If a debtor's response to the demand letter does not result in payment in full, payment by offset, or payment in accordance with a voluntary repayment agreement or other repayment schedule acceptable to the Benefits Administrator, and the debtor's rights under §§ 29.512 through 29.514 have been exhausted, the Benefits Administrator must report the debtor to a credit bureau. In addition, a debtor's failure to make subsequent payments in accordance with a repayment schedule must result in a report to a credit bureau. Before making a report to a credit bureau, the Benefits Administrator must notify the debtor in writing that—
(1) The payment is overdue;
(2) The Benefits Administrator intends, after 60 days, to make a report as described in paragraph (b) of this section to a credit bureau;
(3) The debtor's right to dispute the liability has been exhausted under §§ 29.512 through 29.514; and
(4) The debtor may avoid having the Benefits Administrator report the debtor to a credit bureau by paying the debt in one lump sum or making payments current under a repayment schedule.
(b) Report. If, after being sent the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section, the debtor does not pay the overpayment debt or make payments current under a repayment schedule or fails to respond to the notice, and 60 days have elapsed since the notice was mailed, the Benefits Administrator will report to a credit bureau that the debtor is responsible for an unpaid debt and provide the following information:
Report.
If, after being sent the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section, the debtor does not pay the overpayment debt or make payments current under a repayment schedule or fails to respond to the notice, and 60 days have elapsed since the notice was mailed, the Benefits Administrator will report to a credit bureau that the debtor is responsible for an unpaid debt and provide the following information:
(1) The debtor's name, address, taxpayer identification number, and any other information necessary to establish the identity of the individual;
(2) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and
(3) The fact that the debt arose in connection with the administration of Federal Benefit Payments under a District Retirement Fund.
(c) Subsequent reports. The Benefits Administrator must update its report to the credit bureau whenever it has knowledge of events that substantially change the status or the amount of the liability.
Subsequent reports.
The Benefits Administrator must update its report to the credit bureau whenever it has knowledge of events that substantially change the status or the amount of the liability.
(d) Other reporting of delinquent debts. Pursuant to 31 CFR 901.4, delinquent overpayment debts should be reported to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS).
Other reporting of delinquent debts.
Pursuant to 31 CFR 901.4, delinquent overpayment debts should be reported to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS).
(e) Privacy Act considerations. A delinquent debt may not be reported under this section unless a notice issued pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4), authorizes the disclosure of information about the debtor to a credit bureau or CAIVRS.
Privacy Act considerations.
A delinquent debt may not be reported under this section unless a notice issued pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4), authorizes the disclosure of information about the debtor to a credit bureau or CAIVRS.

§ 29.519   Referral to a collection agency.

(a) The Department retains the responsibility for resolving disputes, compromising debts, referring overpayment debts for litigation, and suspending or terminating collection action.
(b) The Department may not refer overpayment debts to commercial collection agencies until all procedures required by or requested under §§ 29.511 through 29.514 have been completed.

§ 29.520   Referral for litigation.

The Department may refer to the Justice Department for litigation overpayment debts which cannot be compromised or waived, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, and which the Department has been unable to recover pursuant to the collection activity described in §§ 29.511 through 29.519. (See 31 CFR part 904.) Such debts should be referred to the Justice Department as early as possible, but at least within 1 year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of overpayments arising from fraud, misrepresentation, or the presentation of a false claim, referral should be made to the Justice Department immediately. (See 31 CFR 900.3(a).) Referral of a debt to the Justice Department will suspend processing under §§ 29.511 through 29.519 of this subpart.

Standards for Waiver of Overpayments


§ 29.521   Conditions for waiver and other adjustments.

(a) General. Overpayments made from the Retirement Funds will be recovered unless there is substantial evidence that the individual from whom recovery is to be made is eligible for waiver.
General.
Overpayments made from the Retirement Funds will be recovered unless there is substantial evidence that the individual from whom recovery is to be made is eligible for waiver.
(b) Waiver. The Department may waive an overpayment from the Retirement Funds (provided there is no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor) under sections 11021(3) or 11251(c)(2)(B) of the Act when it is established by substantial evidence that the individual from whom recovery is to be made—
Waiver.
The Department may waive an overpayment from the Retirement Funds (provided there is no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor) under sections 11021(3) or 11251(c)(2)(B) of the Act when it is established by substantial evidence that the individual from whom recovery is to be made—
(1) Is not at fault in causing or contributing to the overpayment, and
(2) Recovery would be against equity and good conscience.
(c) Adjustment in the installment schedule. (1)(i) An overpayment will not be waived because of financial hardship if a reasonable installment schedule can be established for repayment of the debt by adjusting the installment schedule originally established.
Adjustment in the installment schedule.
(1)(i) An overpayment will not be waived because of financial hardship if a reasonable installment schedule can be established for repayment of the debt by adjusting the installment schedule originally established.
(ii) For example, if the Department finds that the original installment schedule—24 installments at $125 each—causes the debtor financial hardship, but that repayment in 60 installments at $50 each does not, it may adjust the installments and recover the debt in full.
(2) Where it has been determined that an individual is ineligible for a waiver, but the individual has shown that collection action pursuant to the original installment schedule would cause him or her financial hardship, the Department may—
(i) Adjust the installment schedule if the individual shows that it would cause him or her financial hardship to make payments at the rate initially scheduled by the Department; or
(ii) Terminate the collection action under 31 CFR 903.3 if the costs of collecting the debt are anticipated to exceed the amount recoverable.

§ 29.522   Fault.

(a) General rule. A debtor is considered to be at fault if he or she, or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, caused or contributed to the accrual of the overpayment. The Department considers a debtor or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim to have caused or contributed to the accrual of an overpayment if—
General rule.
A debtor is considered to be at fault if he or she, or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, caused or contributed to the accrual of the overpayment. The Department considers a debtor or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim to have caused or contributed to the accrual of an overpayment if—
(1) Payment resulted from the individual's incorrect but not fraudulent statement, which the individual knew or should have known to be incorrect; or
(2) Payment resulted from the individual's failure to disclose facts in his or her possession which the individual knew or should have known were material, when the Department has identified that the individual has a duty to report and has clearly notified the individual of this reporting requirement.
(3) The following factors may affect the decision as to whether the debtor is or is not at fault where the debtor submitted an incorrect statement, or the debtor failed to disclose material facts in his or her possession—
(i) The debtor's age;
(ii) The debtor's physical and/or mental condition; and
(iii) The availability and nature of the information provided to the debtor by the Department.
(b) Knowledge of an overpayment. (1) Individuals who are aware that they are not entitled to a payment or are aware that a payment is higher than the payment to which they are entitled are not considered to have contributed to the overpayment if they promptly contact the Benefits Administrator and question the correctness of the payment and take no further action in reliance of the overpayment.
Knowledge of an overpayment.
(1) Individuals who are aware that they are not entitled to a payment or are aware that a payment is higher than the payment to which they are entitled are not considered to have contributed to the overpayment if they promptly contact the Benefits Administrator and question the correctness of the payment and take no further action in reliance of the overpayment.
(2) Any contact made with the Benefits Administrator concerning the overpayment within 60 days of receipt (if the overpayment is a recurring payment, contact must be made within 60 days of the initial payment) will satisfy the prompt notification requirement.
(c) Reasonable person standard. The Department will use a reasonable person standard to determine whether an individual should have known that a statement was incorrect or that material facts in the individual's possession should have been disclosed. The reasonable person standard will take into account the objective factors set forth is paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
Reasonable person standard.
The Department will use a reasonable person standard to determine whether an individual should have known that a statement was incorrect or that material facts in the individual's possession should have been disclosed. The reasonable person standard will take into account the objective factors set forth is paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

§ 29.523   Equity and good conscience.

Recovery is against equity and good conscience when there is substantial evidence that—
(a) It would cause financial hardship to the person from whom it is sought no matter what the amount and length of the proposed installment;
(b) The recipient of the overpayment can show (regardless of his or her financial circumstances) that due to the notice that such payment would be made or because of the incorrect payment he or she either has relinquished a valuable right or has changed positions for the worse; or
(c) Recovery would be unconscionable under the circumstances.

§ 29.524   Financial hardship.

Financial hardship may be deemed to exist when the debtor needs substantially all of his or her current and anticipated income and liquid assets to meet current and anticipated ordinary and necessary living expenses during the projected period of collection. Financial hardship will not be found to exist when the debtor merely establishes that the repayment causes a financial burden, i.e., when it is inconvenient to repay the debt. If there are anticipated changes in income or expenses that would allow for the recovery of the overpayment at a later date, the Department may suspend collection action until a future date.
i.e.
, when it is inconvenient to repay the debt. If there are anticipated changes in income or expenses that would allow for the recovery of the overpayment at a later date, the Department may suspend collection action until a future date.
(a) Considerations. Pertinent considerations in determining whether recovery would cause financial hardship include the following:
Considerations.
Pertinent considerations in determining whether recovery would cause financial hardship include the following:
(1) The debtor's financial ability to pay at the time collection is scheduled to be made, and
(2) Income to other family member(s), if such member's ordinary and necessary living expenses are included in expenses reported by the debtor.

§ 29.525   Ordinary and necessary living expenses.

An individual's ordinary and necessary living expenses include rent, mortgage payments, utilities, maintenance, transportation, food, clothing, insurance (life, health, and accident), taxes, installment payments for which the individual is already liable, medical expenses, support expenses for which the individual is legally responsible, and other miscellaneous expenses that the individual can establish as being ordinary and necessary.

§ 29.526   Waiver precluded.

Waivers will not be offered or granted when—
(1) The overpayment was obtained by fraud, misrepresentation, or by improper negotiation of checks or withdrawal of electronic fund transfer payments after the death of the payee; or
(2) The overpayment was made to an estate and a timely demand for repayment is made prior to the final disbursement by the administrator or executor of the estate.

PART 31—TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 321; Pub. L. 110-343; 122 Stat. 3765.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321; Pub. L. 110-343; 122 Stat. 3765.
[Source:76 FR 61049, Oct. 3, 2011, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
76 FR 61049, Oct. 3, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

§ 31.1   General.

This part sets forth regulations to implement and administer the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-343; 122 Stat. 3765).

Subpart A [Reserved]


Subpart B—Conflicts of Interest


§ 31.200   Purpose and scope.

(a) Purpose. This regulation sets forth standards to address and manage or to prohibit conflicts of interest that may arise in connection with the administration and execution of the authorities under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), established under sections 101 and 102 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA).
Purpose.
This regulation sets forth standards to address and manage or to prohibit conflicts of interest that may arise in connection with the administration and execution of the authorities under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), established under sections 101 and 102 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA).
(b) Scope. This regulation addresses actual and potential conflicts of interest, or circumstances that give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest, that may arise from contracts and financial agency agreements between private sector entities and the Treasury for services under the TARP, other than administrative services identified by the TARP Chief Compliance Officer.
Scope.
This regulation addresses actual and potential conflicts of interest, or circumstances that give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest, that may arise from contracts and financial agency agreements between private sector entities and the Treasury for services under the TARP, other than administrative services identified by the TARP Chief Compliance Officer.

§ 31.201   Definitions.

As used in this part:
Arrangement means a contract or financial agency agreement between a private sector entity and the Treasury for services under the TARP, other than administrative services identified by the TARP Chief Compliance Officer.
Arrangement
means a contract or financial agency agreement between a private sector entity and the Treasury for services under the TARP, other than administrative services identified by the TARP Chief Compliance Officer.
Dependent child means a son, daughter, stepson or stepdaughter who is either (a) Unmarried, under age 21, and living in the individual's house, or (b) considered a “dependent” of the individual under the U.S. tax code.
Dependent child
means a son, daughter, stepson or stepdaughter who is either (a) Unmarried, under age 21, and living in the individual's house, or (b) considered a “dependent” of the individual under the U.S. tax code.
EESA means the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended.
EESA
means the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended.
Key individual means an individual providing services to a private sector entity who participates personally and substantially, through, for example, decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, or the rendering of advice, in the negotiation or performance of, or monitoring for compliance under, the arrangement with the Treasury. For purposes of the definition of key individual, the words “personally and substantially” shall have the same meaning and interpretation as such words have in 5 CFR 2635.402(b)(4).
Key individual
means an individual providing services to a private sector entity who participates personally and substantially, through, for example, decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, or the rendering of advice, in the negotiation or performance of, or monitoring for compliance under, the arrangement with the Treasury. For purposes of the definition of key individual, the words “personally and substantially” shall have the same meaning and interpretation as such words have in 5 CFR 2635.402(b)(4).
Organizational conflict of interest means a situation in which the retained entity has an interest or relationship that could cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the retained entity's objectivity or judgment to perform under the arrangement, or its ability to represent the Treasury. Without limiting the scope of this definition, organizational conflicts of interest may include the following situations:
Organizational conflict of interest
means a situation in which the retained entity has an interest or relationship that could cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the retained entity's objectivity or judgment to perform under the arrangement, or its ability to represent the Treasury. Without limiting the scope of this definition, organizational conflicts of interest may include the following situations:
(1) A prior or current arrangement between the Treasury and the retained entity that may give the retained entity an unfair competitive advantage in obtaining a new arrangement with Treasury.
(2) The retained entity is, or represents, a party in litigation against the Treasury relating to activities under the EESA.
(3) The retained entity provides services for Treasury relating to the acquisition, valuation, disposition, or management of troubled assets at the same time it provides those services for itself or others.
(4) The retained entity gains, or stands to gain, an unfair competitive advantage in private business arrangements or investments by using information provided under an arrangement or obtained or developed pursuant to an arrangement with Treasury.
(5) The retained entity is a potential candidate for relief under EESA, is currently participating in an EESA program, or has a financial interest that could be affected by its performance of the arrangement.
(6) The retained entity maintains a business or financial relationship with institutions that have received funds from Treasury pursuant to the EESA.
Personal conflict of interest means a personal, business, or financial interest of an individual, his or her spouse or any dependent child that could adversely affect the individual's ability to perform under the arrangement, his or her objectivity or judgment in such performance, or his or her ability to represent the interests of the Treasury.
Personal conflict of interest
means a personal, business, or financial interest of an individual, his or her spouse or any dependent child that could adversely affect the individual's ability to perform under the arrangement, his or her objectivity or judgment in such performance, or his or her ability to represent the interests of the Treasury.
Related entity means the parent company and subsidiaries of a retained entity, any entity holding a controlling interest in the retained entity, and any entity in which the retained entity holds a controlling interest.
Related entity
means the parent company and subsidiaries of a retained entity, any entity holding a controlling interest in the retained entity, and any entity in which the retained entity holds a controlling interest.
Retained entity means the individual or entity seeking an arrangement with the Treasury or having such an arrangement with the Treasury, but does not include special government employees. A “retained entity” includes the subcontractors and consultants it hires to perform services under the arrangement.
Retained entity
means the individual or entity seeking an arrangement with the Treasury or having such an arrangement with the Treasury, but does not include special government employees. A “retained entity” includes the subcontractors and consultants it hires to perform services under the arrangement.
Special government employee means an officer or employee serving the Treasury, serving with or without compensation, for a period not to exceed 130 days during any 365-day period on a full-time or intermittent basis.
Special government employee
means an officer or employee serving the Treasury, serving with or without compensation, for a period not to exceed 130 days during any 365-day period on a full-time or intermittent basis.
Treasury means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury employee means an officer or employee of the Treasury, including a special government employee, or an employee of any other government agency who is properly acting on behalf of the Treasury.
Treasury employee
means an officer or employee of the Treasury, including a special government employee, or an employee of any other government agency who is properly acting on behalf of the Treasury.
Troubled assets, for purposes of this rule, shall have the same meaning as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5202(9).
Troubled assets,
for purposes of this rule, shall have the same meaning as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5202(9).

§§ 31.211-31.216   [Reserved]


§ 31.217   Confidentiality of information.

(a) Nonpublic information defined. Any information that Treasury provides to a retained entity under an arrangement, or that the retained entity obtains or develops pursuant to the arrangement, shall be deemed nonpublic until the Treasury determines otherwise in writing, or the information becomes part of the body of public information from a source other than the retained entity.
Nonpublic information defined.
Any information that Treasury provides to a retained entity under an arrangement, or that the retained entity obtains or develops pursuant to the arrangement, shall be deemed nonpublic until the Treasury determines otherwise in writing, or the information becomes part of the body of public information from a source other than the retained entity.
(b) Prohibitions. The retained entity shall not:
Prohibitions.
The retained entity shall not:
(1) Disclose nonpublic information to anyone except as required to perform the retained entity's obligations pursuant to the arrangement, or pursuant to a lawful court order or valid subpoena after giving prior notice to Treasury.
(2) Use or allow the use of any nonpublic information to further any private interest other than as contemplated by the arrangement.
(c) Retained entity's responsibility. A retained entity shall take appropriate measures to ensure the confidentiality of nonpublic information and to prevent its inappropriate use. The retained entity shall document these measures in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance, and shall maintain this documentation for three years after the arrangement has terminated. The retained entity shall notify the TARP Chief Compliance Officer in writing within five business days of detecting a violation of the prohibitions in paragraph (b), above. The security measures required by this paragraph shall include:
Retained entity's responsibility.
A retained entity shall take appropriate measures to ensure the confidentiality of nonpublic information and to prevent its inappropriate use. The retained entity shall document these measures in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance, and shall maintain this documentation for three years after the arrangement has terminated. The retained entity shall notify the TARP Chief Compliance Officer in writing within five business days of detecting a violation of the prohibitions in paragraph (b), above. The security measures required by this paragraph shall include:
(1) Security measures to prevent unauthorized access to facilities and storage containers where nonpublic information is stored.
(2) Security measures to detect and prevent unauthorized access to computer equipment and data storage devices that store or transmit nonpublic information.
(3) Periodic training to ensure that persons receiving nonpublic information know their obligation to maintain its confidentiality and to use it only for purposes contemplated by the arrangement.
(4) Programs to ensure compliance with federal securities laws, including laws relating to insider trading, when the arrangement relates to the acquisition, valuation, management, or disposition of troubled assets.
(5) A certification from each key individual stating that he or she will comply with the requirements in section 31.217(b). The retained entity shall obtain this certification, in the form of a nondisclosure agreement, before a key individual performs work under the arrangement, and then annually thereafter.
(d) Certification. No later than ten business days after the effective date of the arrangement, the retained entity shall certify to the Treasury that it has received a certification form from each key individual stating that he or she will comply with the requirements in § 31.217(b). In making this certification, the retained entity may rely on the information obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, unless the retained entity knows or should have known that the information provided is false or inaccurate.
Certification.
No later than ten business days after the effective date of the arrangement, the retained entity shall certify to the Treasury that it has received a certification form from each key individual stating that he or she will comply with the requirements in § 31.217(b). In making this certification, the retained entity may rely on the information obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, unless the retained entity knows or should have known that the information provided is false or inaccurate.

§ 31.218   Enforcement.

(a) Compliance with these rules concerning conflicts of interest is of the utmost importance. In the event a retained entity or any individual or entity providing information pursuant to 31 U.S.C. part 31 violates any of these rules, Treasury may impose or pursue one or more of the following sanctions:
(1) Rejection of work tainted by an organizational conflict of interest or a personal conflict of interest and denial of payment for that work.
(2) Termination of the arrangement for default.
(3) Debarment of the retained entity for Federal government contracting and/or disqualification of the retained entity from future financial agency agreements.
(4) Imposition of any other remedy available under the terms of the arrangement or at law.
(5) In the event of violation of a criminal statute, referral to the Department of Justice for prosecution of the retained entity and/or its officers or employees. In such cases, the Department of Justice may make direct and derivative use of any statements and information provided by any entity, its representatives and employees or any individual, to the extent permitted by law.
(b) To the extent Treasury has discretion in selecting or imposing a remedy, it will give significant consideration to a retained entity's prompt disclosure of any violation of these rules.

PART 32—PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDITS

[Authority:Public Law 111-5.]
Authority:
Public Law 111-5.

§ 32.1   Timing of disbursements.

(a) State housing credit agencies that receive funds under section 1602 of Division B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 must make subawards to subawardees to finance the construction or acquisition and rehabilitation of low-income housing no later than December 31, 2010. Any funds that are not used to make subawards by December 31, 2010, must be returned to the Treasury by January 1, 2011.
(b) The requirement in subsection (a) above does not prevent State housing credit agencies from continuing to disburse funds to subawardees after December 31, 2010 provided:
(1) A subaward has been made to the subawardee on or before December 31, 2010;
(2) The subawardee has, by the close of 2010, paid or incurred at least 30 percent of the subawardee's total adjusted basis in land and depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of the low-income housing project; and
(3) Any funds not disbursed to the subawardee by December 31, 2011, must be returned to the Treasury by January 1, 2012.
[[74 FR 44752, Aug. 31, 2009]]

PART 33—WAIVERS FOR STATE INNOVATION

[Authority:Sec. 1332, Pub. L. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119.]
Authority:
Sec. 1332, Pub. L. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119.
[Source:77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

§ 33.100   Basis and purpose.

(a) Statutory basis. This part implements provisions of section 1332 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act), Public Law 111-148, relating to Waivers for State Innovation, which the Secretary may authorize for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2017. Section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act requires the Secretary to issue regulations that provide for all of the following:
Statutory basis.
This part implements provisions of section 1332 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act), Public Law 111-148, relating to Waivers for State Innovation, which the Secretary may authorize for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2017. Section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act requires the Secretary to issue regulations that provide for all of the following:
(1) A process for public notice and comment at the State level, including public hearings, sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input.
(2) A process for the submission of an application that ensures the disclosure of all of the following:
(i) The provisions of law that the State involved seeks to waive.
(ii) The specific plans of the State to ensure that the waiver will meet all requirements specified in section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act.
(3) A process for the provision of public notice and comment after a waiver application is received by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that is sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input and that does not impose requirements that are in addition to, or duplicative of, requirements imposed under the Administrative Procedures Act, or requirements that are unreasonable or unnecessarily burdensome with respect to State compliance.
(4) A process for the submission of reports to the Secretary by a State relating to the implementation of a waiver.
(5) A process for the periodic evaluation by the Secretary of programs under waivers.
(b) Purpose. This part sets forth certain procedural requirements for Waivers for State Innovation under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act.
Purpose.
This part sets forth certain procedural requirements for Waivers for State Innovation under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act.

§ 33.102   Coordinated waiver process.

(a) Coordination with applications for waivers under other Federal laws. A State may submit a single application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for a waiver under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act and a waiver under one or more of the existing waiver processes applicable under titles XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, or under any other Federal law relating to the provision of health care items or services, provided that such application is consistent with the procedures described in this part, the procedures for demonstrations under section 1115 of the Social Security Act, if applicable, and the procedures under any other applicable Federal law under which the State seeks a waiver.
Coordination with applications for waivers under other Federal laws.
A State may submit a single application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for a waiver under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act and a waiver under one or more of the existing waiver processes applicable under titles XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, or under any other Federal law relating to the provision of health care items or services, provided that such application is consistent with the procedures described in this part, the procedures for demonstrations under section 1115 of the Social Security Act, if applicable, and the procedures under any other applicable Federal law under which the State seeks a waiver.
(b) Coordinated process for section 1332 waivers. A State seeking a section 1332 waiver must submit a waiver application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Any application submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services that requests to waive sections 36B, 4980H, or 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code, in accordance with section 1332(a)(2)(D) of the Affordable Care Act, shall upon receipt be transmitted by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the Secretary to be reviewed in accordance with this part.
Coordinated process for section 1332 waivers.
A State seeking a section 1332 waiver must submit a waiver application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Any application submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services that requests to waive sections 36B, 4980H, or 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code, in accordance with section 1332(a)(2)(D) of the Affordable Care Act, shall upon receipt be transmitted by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the Secretary to be reviewed in accordance with this part.

§ 33.104   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:
Complete application means an application that has been submitted and for which the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made a preliminary determination that it includes all required information and satisfies all requirements that are described in § 33.108(f).
Complete application
means an application that has been submitted and for which the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made a preliminary determination that it includes all required information and satisfies all requirements that are described in § 33.108(f).
Public notice means a notice issued by a government agency or legislative body that contains sufficient detail to notify the public at large of a proposed action consistent with § 33.112.
Public notice
means a notice issued by a government agency or legislative body that contains sufficient detail to notify the public at large of a proposed action consistent with § 33.112.
Section 1332 waiver means a Waiver for State Innovation under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act.
Section 1332 waiver
means a Waiver for State Innovation under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act.

§ 33.108   Application procedures.

(a) Acceptable formats for applications. Applications for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver shall be submitted in electronic format to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Acceptable formats for applications.
Applications for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver shall be submitted in electronic format to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b) Application timing. Applications for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver must be submitted sufficiently in advance of the requested effective date to allow for an appropriate implementation timeline.
Application timing.
Applications for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver must be submitted sufficiently in advance of the requested effective date to allow for an appropriate implementation timeline.
(c) Preliminary review. Each application for a section 1332 waiver will be subject to a preliminary review by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, who will make a preliminary determination that the application is complete. A submitted application will not be deemed received until the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made the preliminary determination that the application is complete.
Preliminary review.
Each application for a section 1332 waiver will be subject to a preliminary review by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, who will make a preliminary determination that the application is complete. A submitted application will not be deemed received until the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made the preliminary determination that the application is complete.
(1) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will complete the preliminary review of the application within 45 days after it is submitted.
(2) If the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services determine that the application is not complete, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will send the State a written notice of the elements missing from the application.
(3) The preliminary determination that an application is complete does not preclude a finding during the 180-day Federal decision-making period that a necessary element of the application is missing or insufficient.
(d) Notification of preliminary determination. Upon making the preliminary determination that an application is complete, as defined in this part, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will send the State a written notice informing the State that the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made such a preliminary determination. That date will also mark the beginning of the Federal public notice process and the 180-day Federal decision-making period.
Notification of preliminary determination.
Upon making the preliminary determination that an application is complete, as defined in this part, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will send the State a written notice informing the State that the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made such a preliminary determination. That date will also mark the beginning of the Federal public notice process and the 180-day Federal decision-making period.
(e) Public notice of completed application. Upon receipt of a complete application for an initial section 1332 waiver, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will—
Public notice of completed application.
Upon receipt of a complete application for an initial section 1332 waiver, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will—
(1) Make available to the public the application, and all related State submissions, including all supplemental information received from the State following the receipt of a complete application for a section 1332 waiver.
(2) Indicate the status of the application.
(f) Criteria for a complete application. An application for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver will not be considered complete unless the application meets all of the following conditions:
Criteria for a complete application.
An application for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver will not be considered complete unless the application meets all of the following conditions:
(1) Complies with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.
(2) Provides written evidence of the State's compliance with the public notice requirements set forth in § 33.112, including a description of the key issues raised during the State public notice and comment period.
(3) Provides all of the following:
(i) A comprehensive description of the State legislation and program to implement a plan meeting the requirements for a waiver under section 1332 of PPACA. In analyzing whether the State has satisfied the requirement under section 1332(b)(2)(A) of PPACA that the State enact a law authorizing a waiver under section 1332 of PPACA, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, may consider existing State legislation combined with duly-enacted State regulation or an executive order so long as the State legislation provides statutory authority to enforce PPACA provisions or the State plan;
(ii) A copy of the enacted State legislation that provides the State with authority to implement the proposed waiver, as required under section 1332(a)(1)(C) of the Affordable Care Act;
(iii) A list of the provisions of law that the State seeks to waive, including a description of the reason for the specific requests; and
(iv) The analyses, actuarial certifications, data, assumptions, targets, and other information set forth in paragraph (f)(4) of this section sufficient to provide the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, with the necessary data to determine that the State's proposed waiver satisfies the general requirements for approval under section 1332(b)(1) of the Affordable Care Act consistent with the provisions of this paragraph (f)(3)(iv):
(A) As required under section 1332(b)(1)(A) of the Affordable Care Act (the comprehensive coverage requirement), will provide coverage that is at least as comprehensive as the coverage defined in section 1302(b) of the Affordable Care Act and offered through Exchanges established under the Affordable Care Act as certified by the Office of the Actuary of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services based on sufficient data from the State and from comparable States about their experience with programs created by the Affordable Care Act and the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that the State seeks to waive. To satisfy the comprehensive coverage requirement, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, must determine that the coverage under the State plan is forecasted to be at least as comprehensive overall for residents of the State as coverage absent the waiver;
(B) As required under section 1332(b)(1)(B) of the Affordable Care Act (the affordability requirement), will provide coverage and cost sharing protections against excessive out-of-pocket spending that are at least as affordable as the provisions of Title I of the Affordable Care Act would provide. To satisfy the affordability requirement, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, must determine that the coverage under the State plan is forecasted to be as affordable overall for State residents as coverage absent the waiver;
(C) As required under section 1332(b)(1)(C) of the Affordable Care Act (the scope of coverage requirement), will provide coverage to at least a comparable number of its residents as the provisions of Title I of the Affordable Care Act would provide. To satisfy the scope of coverage requirement, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Health and Human Services, as applicable, must determine that the State plan will provide coverage to a comparable number of State residents under the waiver as would have coverage absent the waiver; and
(D) As prohibited under section 1332(b)(1)(D) of the Affordable Care Act (the Federal deficit requirement), will not increase the Federal deficit.
(4) Contains the following supporting information:
(i) Actuarial analyses and actuarial certifications. Actuarial analyses and actuarial certifications to support the State's estimates that the proposed waiver will comply with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, and the scope of coverage requirement.
Actuarial analyses and actuarial certifications.
Actuarial analyses and actuarial certifications to support the State's estimates that the proposed waiver will comply with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, and the scope of coverage requirement.
(ii) Economic analyses. Economic analyses to support the State's estimates that the proposed waiver will comply with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement and the Federal deficit requirement, including:
Economic analyses.
Economic analyses to support the State's estimates that the proposed waiver will comply with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement and the Federal deficit requirement, including:
(A) A detailed 10-year budget plan that is deficit neutral to the Federal government, as prescribed by section 1332(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Affordable Care Act, and includes all costs under the waiver, including administrative costs and other costs to the Federal government, if applicable; and
(B) A detailed analysis regarding the estimated impact of the waiver on health insurance coverage in the State.
(iii) Data and assumptions. The data and assumptions used to demonstrate that the State's proposed waiver is in compliance with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement and the Federal deficit requirement, including:
Data and assumptions.
The data and assumptions used to demonstrate that the State's proposed waiver is in compliance with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement and the Federal deficit requirement, including:
(A) Information on the age, income, health expenses and current health insurance status of the relevant State population; the number of employers by number of employees and whether the employer offers insurance; cross-tabulations of these variables; and an explanation of data sources and quality; and
(B) An explanation of the key assumptions used to develop the estimates of the effect of the waiver on coverage and the Federal budget, such as individual and employer participation rates, behavioral changes, premium and price effects, and other relevant factors.
(iv) Implementation timeline. A detailed draft timeline for the State's implementation of the proposed waiver.
Implementation timeline.
A detailed draft timeline for the State's implementation of the proposed waiver.
(v) Additional information. Additional information supporting the State's proposed waiver, including:
Additional information.
Additional information supporting the State's proposed waiver, including:
(A) An explanation as to whether the waiver increases or decreases the administrative burden on individuals, insurers, and employers, and if so, how and why;
(B) An explanation of how the waiver will affect the implementation of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act which the State is not requesting to waive in the State and at the Federal level;
(C) An explanation of how the waiver will affect residents who need to obtain health care services out-of-State, as well as the States in which such residents may seek such services;
(D) If applicable, an explanation as to how the State will provide the Federal government with all information necessary to administer the waiver at the Federal level; and
(E) An explanation of how the State's proposal will address potential individual, employer, insurer, or provider compliance, waste, fraud and abuse within the State or in other States.
(vi) Reporting targets. Quarterly, annual, and cumulative targets for the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement, and the Federal deficit requirement.
Reporting targets.
Quarterly, annual, and cumulative targets for the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement, and the Federal deficit requirement.
(vii) Other information. Other information consistent with guidance provided by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Other information.
Other information consistent with guidance provided by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(g) Additional supporting information. (1) During the Federal review process, the Secretary may request additional supporting information from the State via the Secretary of Health and Human Services as needed to address public comments or to address issues that arise in reviewing the application.
Additional supporting information.
(1) During the Federal review process, the Secretary may request additional supporting information from the State via the Secretary of Health and Human Services as needed to address public comments or to address issues that arise in reviewing the application.
(2) Requests for additional information, and responses to such requests, will be made available to the public in the same manner as information described in § 33.116(b).
[[77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 6176, Jan. 19, 2021; 86 FR 53501, Sept. 27, 2021]]

§ 33.112   State public notice requirements.

(a) General. (1) Prior to submitting an application for a new section 1332 waiver to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for review and consideration, a State must provide a public notice and comment period sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input for the application for a section 1332 waiver.
General.
(1) Prior to submitting an application for a new section 1332 waiver to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for review and consideration, a State must provide a public notice and comment period sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input for the application for a section 1332 waiver.
(2) Such public notice and comment period shall include, for a State with one or more Federally-recognized Indian tribes within its borders, a separate process for meaningful consultation with such tribes.
(b) Public notice and comment period. The State shall make available at the beginning of the public notice and comment period, through its Web site or other effective means of communication, and shall update as appropriate, a public notice that includes all of the following:
Public notice and comment period.
The State shall make available at the beginning of the public notice and comment period, through its Web site or other effective means of communication, and shall update as appropriate, a public notice that includes all of the following:
(1) A comprehensive description of the application for a section 1332 waiver to be submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services including information and assurances related to all statutory requirements and other information consistent with guidance provided by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(2) Information relating to where copies of the application for a section 1332 waiver are available for public review and comment.
(3) Information relating to how and where written comments may be submitted and reviewed by the public, and the timeframe during which comments will be accepted.
(4) The location, date, and time of public hearings that will be convened by the State to seek public input on the application for a section 1332 waiver.
(c) Public hearings. (1) After issuing the public notice and prior to submitting an application for a new section 1332 waiver, a State must conduct public hearings regarding the State's application.
Public hearings.
(1) After issuing the public notice and prior to submitting an application for a new section 1332 waiver, a State must conduct public hearings regarding the State's application.
(2) Such public hearings shall provide an interested party the opportunity to learn about and comment on the contents of the application for a section 1332 waiver.
(3) Such public hearings shall be conducted in an in-person, virtual (that is, one that uses telephonic, digital, and/or web-based platforms), or hybrid (that is, one that provides for both in-person and virtual attendance) format.
(d) Submission of initial application. After the State public notice and comment period has concluded, the State may submit an application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for an initial waiver in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 33.108.
Submission of initial application.
After the State public notice and comment period has concluded, the State may submit an application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for an initial waiver in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 33.108.
[[77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 26418, Apr. 15, 2024]]

§ 33.116   Federal public notice and approval process.

(a) General. The Federal public notice and approval process begins on the first business day after the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services determine that all elements for a complete application were documented and submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
General.
The Federal public notice and approval process begins on the first business day after the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services determine that all elements for a complete application were documented and submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b) Public notice and comment period. (1) Following a determination that a State's application for a section 1332 waiver is complete, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will provide for a public notice and comment period that is sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input and that does not impose requirements that are in addition to, or duplicative of, requirements imposed under the Administrative Procedures Act, or requirements that are unreasonable or unnecessarily burdensome with respect to State compliance.
Public notice and comment period.
(1) Following a determination that a State's application for a section 1332 waiver is complete, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will provide for a public notice and comment period that is sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input and that does not impose requirements that are in addition to, or duplicative of, requirements imposed under the Administrative Procedures Act, or requirements that are unreasonable or unnecessarily burdensome with respect to State compliance.
(2) At the beginning of the Federal notice and comment period, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will make available through its Web site and otherwise, and shall update as appropriate, public notice that includes all of the following:
(i) The complete application for a section 1332 waiver, updates for the status of the State's application, and any supplemental materials received from the State prior to and during the Federal public notice and comment period.
(ii) Information relating to where copies of the application for a section 1332 waiver are available for public review and comment.
(iii) Information relating to how and where written comments may be submitted and reviewed by the public, and the timeframe during which comments will be accepted.
(iv) Any public comments received during the Federal public notice and comment period.
(c) Approval of a section 1332 waiver application. The final decision of the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services on a State application for a section 1332 waiver will be issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services no later than 180 days after the determination by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services that a complete application was received in accordance with § 33.108.
Approval of a section 1332 waiver application.
The final decision of the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services on a State application for a section 1332 waiver will be issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services no later than 180 days after the determination by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services that a complete application was received in accordance with § 33.108.

§ 33.118   Modification from the normal public notice requirements during an emergent situation.

(a) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services may modify, in part, the State public notice requirements under § 33.112(a)(1), (b), (c), and (d) and the Federal public notice procedures under § 33.116(b) to expedite a decision on a proposed section 1332 waiver request during an emergent situation, when a delay would undermine or compromise the purpose of the proposed waiver request and be contrary to the interests of consumers. These flexibilities are limited to emergent situations, including natural disasters; public health emergencies; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life.
(b) A State must meet all of the following criteria to request a modification under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The State must request a modification under paragraph (a) of this section, in the form and manner specified by the Secretaries.
(2) The State must have acted in good faith, and in a diligent, timely, and prudent manner in the preparation of the request for a modification under paragraph (a) of this section, and the waiver application request, as applicable.
(3) The State must, as applicable, detail in its request for a modification from State-level notice procedures under paragraph (a) of this section the justification for the request as it relates to the emergent situation and the alternative public notice procedures it proposes to implement at the State level, including public hearings, that are designed to provide the greatest opportunity and level of meaningful public input from impacted stakeholders that is practicable given the emergency circumstances underlying the State's request for a modification.
(4) The State must, as applicable, detail in its request for a modification from Federal-level notice procedures under paragraph (a) of this section the justification for the request as it relates to the public health emergency and the alternative public notice procedures it requests to be implemented at the Federal level.
(5) The State must explain in its request for a modification from State-level notice procedures under paragraph (a) of this section how the emergent circumstances underlying its request results from a natural disaster; public health emergency; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life could not reasonably have been foreseen and how a delay would undermine or compromise the purpose of the waiver and be contrary to the interests of consumers.
(c) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will evaluate a State's request for a modification under paragraph (a) of this section and issue their exemption determination within approximately 15 calendar days after the request is received.
(d) The Secretary of Health and Human Services will publish on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) website any modification determinations within 15 calendar days of the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services making such a determination, as well as the approved revised timeline for public comment under the approved alternative State or Federal public notice procedures, as applicable.
(e) The State must publish on its website any modification requests and determinations within 15 calendar days of receipt of the determination, as well as the approved revised timeline for public comment under the alternative State or Federal public notice procedures, as applicable.
(f) The State must, as applicable, implement the alternative public notice procedures at the State level if the State's exemption request is approved and, if required, amend the waiver application request.
(g) The Departments will consider circumstances to be emergent when they could not have been reasonably foreseen. The Departments will assess “reasonable foreseeability” based on the specific issues that a section 1332 waiver proposes to address and other relevant factors, and will not make this assessment based solely on the number of days a State may have been aware of such issues.
[[85 FR 71196, Nov. 6, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 53501, Sept. 27, 2021]]

§ 33.120   Monitoring and compliance.

(a) General. (1) Following the issuance of a final decision to approve a section 1332 waiver by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, a State must comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations, unless expressly waived. A State must, within the timeframes specified in law and regulation come into compliance with any changes in Federal law and regulation affecting section 1332 waivers, unless the provision being changed is expressly waived.
General.
(1) Following the issuance of a final decision to approve a section 1332 waiver by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, a State must comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations, unless expressly waived. A State must, within the timeframes specified in law and regulation come into compliance with any changes in Federal law and regulation affecting section 1332 waivers, unless the provision being changed is expressly waived.
(2) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will examine compliance with Federal and regulatory requirements consistent with § 155.1308(f)(3)(iv) when conducting implementation reviews under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Implementation reviews. (1) The terms and conditions of an approved section 1332 waiver will provide that the State will perform periodic reviews of the implementation of the section 1332 waiver.
Implementation reviews.
(1) The terms and conditions of an approved section 1332 waiver will provide that the State will perform periodic reviews of the implementation of the section 1332 waiver.
(2) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will review documented complaints that a State is failing to comply with requirements specified in the terms and conditions of any approved section 1332 waiver.
(3) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will promptly share with a State any complaint that the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services has received and will also provide notification of any applicable monitoring and compliance issues.
(c) Post award. Within at least 6 months after the implementation date of a section 1332 waiver and annually thereafter, a State must hold a public forum to solicit comments on the progress of a section 1332 waiver. The State must hold the public forum at which members of the public have an opportunity to provide comments and must provide a summary of the forum to the Secretary as part of the quarterly report specified in § 33.124(a) that is associated with the quarter in which the forum was held, as well as in the annual report specified in § 33.124(b) that is associated with the year in which the forum was held. The public forum shall be conducted in an in-person, virtual (that is, one that uses telephonic, digital, and/or web-based platforms), or hybrid (that is, one that provides for both in-person and virtual attendance) format.
Post award.
Within at least 6 months after the implementation date of a section 1332 waiver and annually thereafter, a State must hold a public forum to solicit comments on the progress of a section 1332 waiver. The State must hold the public forum at which members of the public have an opportunity to provide comments and must provide a summary of the forum to the Secretary as part of the quarterly report specified in § 33.124(a) that is associated with the quarter in which the forum was held, as well as in the annual report specified in § 33.124(b) that is associated with the year in which the forum was held. The public forum shall be conducted in an in-person, virtual (that is, one that uses telephonic, digital, and/or web-based platforms), or hybrid (that is, one that provides for both in-person and virtual attendance) format.
(1) Notification requirements for public forum. The State must publish the date, time, and location of the public forum in a prominent location on the State's public Web site, at least 30 days prior to the date of the planned public forum.
Notification requirements for public forum.
The State must publish the date, time, and location of the public forum in a prominent location on the State's public Web site, at least 30 days prior to the date of the planned public forum.
(2) Modification from the normal post-award requirements during the public health emergency. (i) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services may modify, in part, State post award requirements under this paragraph (c)(2) for an approved section 1332 waiver request during an emergent situation, when the application of the post award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers. These flexibilities are limited to emergent situations, including natural disasters; public health emergencies; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life.
Modification from the normal post-award requirements during the public health emergency.
(i) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services may modify, in part, State post award requirements under this paragraph (c)(2) for an approved section 1332 waiver request during an emergent situation, when the application of the post award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers. These flexibilities are limited to emergent situations, including natural disasters; public health emergencies; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life.
(ii) A State must meet all of the following criteria to request a modification under paragraph (c) of this section:
(A) The State must request a modification under this paragraph (c)(2), in the form and manner specified by the Secretaries.
(B) The State must have acted in good faith, and in a diligent, timely, and prudent manner to comply with the monitoring and compliance requirement under the waiver and the terms and conditions of the agreement between the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, and the State to implement a section 1332 waiver and to submit and prepare the request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2).
(C) The State must detail in its request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2) the alternative post award public notice procedures it proposes to implement at the State level, including public hearings, that are designed to provide the greatest opportunity and level of meaningful public input from impacted stakeholders that is practicable given the emergency circumstances underlying the State's request for a modification.
(D) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will evaluate a State's request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2) and issue their modification determination within approximately 15 calendar days after the request is received.
(E) The State must publish on its website any modification requests and determinations within 15 calendar days of the receipt of the determination as well as information on the approved revised timeline for the state's post award public notice procedures, as applicable.
(F) The State must explain in its request for modification under this paragraph (c)(2) how the emergent circumstances underlying its request results from a natural disaster; public health emergency; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life and could not reasonably have been foreseen and how the application of the post-award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers.
(iii) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will consider circumstances to be emergent when they could not have been reasonably foreseen. The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will assess “reasonable foreseeability” based on the specific issues that a section 1332 waiver proposes to address and other relevant factors, and will not make this assessment based solely on the number of days a State may have been aware of such issues.
(d) Terminations and suspensions. The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services reserve the right to suspend or terminate a section 1332 waiver in whole or in part, at any time before the date of expiration, whenever the Secretaries determine that a State has materially failed to comply with the terms of a section 1332 waiver.
Terminations and suspensions.
The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services reserve the right to suspend or terminate a section 1332 waiver in whole or in part, at any time before the date of expiration, whenever the Secretaries determine that a State has materially failed to comply with the terms of a section 1332 waiver.
(e) Closeout costs. If all or part of a section 1332 waiver is terminated or suspended, or if a portion of a section 1332 waiver is withdrawn, Federal funding is limited to normal closeout costs associated with an orderly termination, suspension, or withdrawal, including service costs during any approved transition period, and administrative costs of disenrolling participants.
Closeout costs.
If all or part of a section 1332 waiver is terminated or suspended, or if a portion of a section 1332 waiver is withdrawn, Federal funding is limited to normal closeout costs associated with an orderly termination, suspension, or withdrawal, including service costs during any approved transition period, and administrative costs of disenrolling participants.
(f) Federal evaluators. (1) A State must fully cooperate with the Secretary, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or an independent evaluator selected by the Secretary or the Secretary of Health and Human Services to undertake an independent evaluation of any component of a section 1332 waiver.
Federal evaluators.
(1) A State must fully cooperate with the Secretary, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or an independent evaluator selected by the Secretary or the Secretary of Health and Human Services to undertake an independent evaluation of any component of a section 1332 waiver.
(2) As part of this required cooperation, a State must submit all requested data and information to the Secretary, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or the independent evaluator.
[[77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 71196, Nov. 6, 2020; 86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021; 89 FR 26418, Apr. 15, 2024]]

§ 33.122   Pass-through funding for approved waivers.

(a) Pass-through funding. With respect to a State's approved section 1332 waiver, under which, due to the structure of the approved State waiver plan, individuals and small employers in the State would not qualify for or would qualify for a reduced amount of premium tax credit under section 36B of the Internal Revenue Code, small business tax credit under section 45R of the Internal Revenue Code, or cost-sharing reductions under ACA part I of subtitle E for which they would otherwise be eligible, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Health and Human Services shall provide for an alternative means by which the aggregate amount of such credits or reductions that would have been paid on behalf of participants in the Exchanges had the State not received such waiver shall be paid to the State for purposes of implementing the approved State waiver plan. Such amount shall be determined annually by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, taking into consideration the experience of other States with respect to participation in an Exchange and credits and reductions provided under such provisions to residents of the other States. This amount can be updated to reflect applicable changes in Federal or State law.
Pass-through funding.
With respect to a State's approved section 1332 waiver, under which, due to the structure of the approved State waiver plan, individuals and small employers in the State would not qualify for or would qualify for a reduced amount of premium tax credit under section 36B of the Internal Revenue Code, small business tax credit under section 45R of the Internal Revenue Code, or cost-sharing reductions under ACA part I of subtitle E for which they would otherwise be eligible, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Health and Human Services shall provide for an alternative means by which the aggregate amount of such credits or reductions that would have been paid on behalf of participants in the Exchanges had the State not received such waiver shall be paid to the State for purposes of implementing the approved State waiver plan. Such amount shall be determined annually by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, taking into consideration the experience of other States with respect to participation in an Exchange and credits and reductions provided under such provisions to residents of the other States. This amount can be updated to reflect applicable changes in Federal or State law.
(b) [Reserved]
[[86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021]]

§ 33.124   State reporting requirements.

(a) Quarterly reports. A State must submit quarterly reports to the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the State's section 1332 waiver. These quarterly reports must include, but are not limited to, reports of any ongoing operational challenges and plans for and results of associated corrective actions.
Quarterly reports.
A State must submit quarterly reports to the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the State's section 1332 waiver. These quarterly reports must include, but are not limited to, reports of any ongoing operational challenges and plans for and results of associated corrective actions.
(b) Annual reports. A State must submit an annual report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services documenting all of the following:
Annual reports.
A State must submit an annual report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services documenting all of the following:
(1) The progress of the section 1332 waiver.
(2) Data on compliance with section 1332(b)(1)(A) through (D) of the Affordable Care Act.
(3) A summary of the annual post-award public forum, held in accordance with § 33.120(c), including all public comments received at such forum regarding the progress of the section 1332 waiver and action taken in response to such concerns or comments.
(4) Other information consistent with the State's approved terms and conditions.
(c) Submitting and publishing annual reports. A State must submit a draft annual report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services no later than 90 days after the end of each waiver year, or as specified in the waiver's terms and conditions.
Submitting and publishing annual reports.
A State must submit a draft annual report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services no later than 90 days after the end of each waiver year, or as specified in the waiver's terms and conditions.
(1) Within 60 days of receipt of comments from the Secretary of Health and Human Services, a State must submit to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a final annual report for the waiver year.
(2) The draft and final annual reports are to be published on a State's public Web site within 30 days of submission to and approval by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, respectively.

§ 33.128   Periodic evaluation requirements.

(a) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, shall periodically evaluate the implementation of a program under a section 1332 waiver consistent with § 33.108(f)(3)(iv) and any terms and conditions governing the section 1332 waiver.
(b) Each periodic evaluation must include a review of the annual report or reports submitted by the State in accordance with § 33.124 that relate to the period of time covered by the evaluation.
[[77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021]]

§ 33.130   Waiver amendment.

(a) Amendment to an approved section 1332 waiver. A State may request an amendment to an approved section 1332 waiver from the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. A section 1332 waiver amendment is considered a change to an approved section 1332 waiver plan that is not otherwise allowable under the terms and conditions of an approved waiver, a change that could impact any of the section 1332 statutory guardrails or a change to the program design for an approved waiver. A State is not authorized to implement any aspect of the proposed amendment without prior approval by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Amendment to an approved section 1332 waiver.
A State may request an amendment to an approved section 1332 waiver from the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. A section 1332 waiver amendment is considered a change to an approved section 1332 waiver plan that is not otherwise allowable under the terms and conditions of an approved waiver, a change that could impact any of the section 1332 statutory guardrails or a change to the program design for an approved waiver. A State is not authorized to implement any aspect of the proposed amendment without prior approval by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b) [Reserved]
[[86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021]]

§ 33.132   Waiver extension.

(a) Extension. A State may request continuation of an approved section 1332 waiver, and such request shall be deemed granted unless the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, within 90 days after the date of submission of a complete waiver extension request to the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, either denies such request in writing or informs the State in writing with respect to any additional information that is needed in order to make a final determination with respect to the request.
Extension.
A State may request continuation of an approved section 1332 waiver, and such request shall be deemed granted unless the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, within 90 days after the date of submission of a complete waiver extension request to the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, either denies such request in writing or informs the State in writing with respect to any additional information that is needed in order to make a final determination with respect to the request.
(b) [Reserved]
[[86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021]]

PART 34—RESOURCES AND ECOSYSTEMS SUSTAINABILITY, TOURIST OPPORTUNITIES, AND REVIVED ECONOMIES OF THE GULF COAST STATES

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; 33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
[Source:80 FR 77243, Dec. 14, 2015, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
80 FR 77243, Dec. 14, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 34.1   Purpose.

This part describes policies and procedures applicable to the following programs authorized under the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012 (RESTORE Act).
(a) The Gulf RESTORE Program is authorized under section 311(t) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(t)), as amended by the RESTORE Act, and includes the following components:
(1) Direct Component (subpart D of this part), administered by the Department of the Treasury.
(2) Comprehensive Plan Component (subpart E of this part), administered by the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council.
(3) Spill Impact Component (subpart F of this part), administered by the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council.
(b) NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program (subpart G of this part) is administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and authorized by the RESTORE Act, section 1604, 33 U.S.C. 1321 note.
(c) Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program (subpart H of this part) is administered by the Department of the Treasury, and authorized by the RESTORE Act, section 1605, 33 U.S.C. 1321 note.

§ 34.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:
Act or RESTORE Act means the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012.
Act
or
RESTORE Act
means the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012.
Activity means an activity, project, or program, including research and monitoring, eligible for funding under the Act.
Activity
means an activity, project, or program, including research and monitoring, eligible for funding under the Act.
Administrative costs means those indirect costs for administration incurred by the Gulf Coast States, coastal political subdivisions, and coastal zone parishes that are allocable to activities authorized under the Act. Administrative costs do not include indirect costs that are identified specifically with, or readily assignable to, facilities as defined in 2 CFR 200.414.
Administrative costs
means those indirect costs for administration incurred by the Gulf Coast States, coastal political subdivisions, and coastal zone parishes that are allocable to activities authorized under the Act. Administrative costs do not include indirect costs that are identified specifically with, or readily assignable to, facilities as defined in 2 CFR 200.414.
Administrative expenses means those expenses incurred for administration by the Council or NOAA, including expenses for general management functions, general ledger accounting, budgeting, human resource services, general procurement services, and general legal services. Administrative expenses do not include expenses that are identified specifically with, or readily assignable to:
Administrative expenses
means those expenses incurred for administration by the Council or NOAA, including expenses for general management functions, general ledger accounting, budgeting, human resource services, general procurement services, and general legal services. Administrative expenses do not include expenses that are identified specifically with, or readily assignable to:
(1) Facilities;
(2) Eligible projects, programs, or planning activities;
(3) Activities related to grant applications, awards, audit requirements, or post-award management, including payments and collections;
(4) The Council's development, publication, and implementation of the Comprehensive Plan and any subsequent amendments;
(5) The Council's development and publication of regulations and procedures for implementing the Spill Impact Component, and the review of State Expenditure Plans submitted under the Spill Impact Component;
(6) Preparation of reports required by the Act;
(7) Establishment and operation of advisory committees; or
(8) Collection and consideration of scientific and other research associated with restoration of the Gulf Coast ecosystem.
Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council means the entity identified in section 311(t)(1)(F)(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the RESTORE Act.
Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council
means the entity identified in section 311(t)(1)(F)(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the RESTORE Act.
Assignee means a member of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council who has been assigned primary authority and responsibility for a project or program included in the Comprehensive Plan through a grant or interagency agreement.
Assignee
means a member of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council who has been assigned primary authority and responsibility for a project or program included in the Comprehensive Plan through a grant or interagency agreement.
Best available science means science that maximizes the quality, objectivity, and integrity of information, including statistical information; uses peer-reviewed and publicly available data; and clearly documents and communicates risks and uncertainties in the scientific basis for such projects.
Best available science
means science that maximizes the quality, objectivity, and integrity of information, including statistical information; uses peer-reviewed and publicly available data; and clearly documents and communicates risks and uncertainties in the scientific basis for such projects.
Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program means the program authorized by section 1605 of the Act.
Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program
means the program authorized by section 1605 of the Act.
Coastal political subdivision means any local political jurisdiction that is immediately below the state level of government, including a county, parish, or borough, with a coastline that is contiguous with any portion of the United States Gulf of Mexico. The term includes any of the disproportionately affected counties and nondisproportionately impacted counties in Florida, as defined below.
Coastal political subdivision
means any local political jurisdiction that is immediately below the state level of government, including a county, parish, or borough, with a coastline that is contiguous with any portion of the United States Gulf of Mexico. The term includes any of the disproportionately affected counties and nondisproportionately impacted counties in Florida, as defined below.
Coastal zone parishes means the parishes of Ascension, Assumption, Calcasieu, Cameron, Iberia, Jefferson, Lafourche, Livingston, Orleans, Plaquemines, St. Bernard, St. Charles, St. James, St. John the Baptist, St. Martin, St. Mary, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrebonne, and Vermilion in the State of Louisiana.
Coastal zone parishes
means the parishes of Ascension, Assumption, Calcasieu, Cameron, Iberia, Jefferson, Lafourche, Livingston, Orleans, Plaquemines, St. Bernard, St. Charles, St. James, St. John the Baptist, St. Martin, St. Mary, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrebonne, and Vermilion in the State of Louisiana.
Comprehensive Plan Component means the component of the Gulf RESTORE Program authorized by section 311(t)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which funds are provided through the Council, in accordance with a plan developed by the Council, to entities to carry out the purposes of the Act.
Comprehensive Plan Component
means the component of the Gulf RESTORE Program authorized by section 311(t)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which funds are provided through the Council, in accordance with a plan developed by the Council, to entities to carry out the purposes of the Act.
Council means the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council, an independent entity in the Federal Government whose members are the Governors of the Gulf Coast States; the Secretaries of Agriculture, the Army, Commerce, and the Interior; the head of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (or their designees at the level of Assistant Secretary or the equivalent).
Council
means the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council, an independent entity in the Federal Government whose members are the Governors of the Gulf Coast States; the Secretaries of Agriculture, the Army, Commerce, and the Interior; the head of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (or their designees at the level of Assistant Secretary or the equivalent).
Deepwater Horizon oil spill means the blowout and explosion of the mobile offshore drilling unit Deepwater Horizon that occurred on April 20, 2010, and resulting hydrocarbon releases into the environment.
Deepwater Horizon oil spill
means the blowout and explosion of the mobile offshore drilling unit
Deepwater Horizon
that occurred on April 20, 2010, and resulting hydrocarbon releases into the environment.
Direct Component means the component of the Gulf RESTORE Program authorized by section 311(t)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which Gulf Coast States, coastal zone parishes, disproportionately affected counties, and nondisproportionately impacted counties are provided funds directly by Treasury through grants to carry out the purposes of the Act.
Direct Component
means the component of the Gulf RESTORE Program authorized by section 311(t)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which Gulf Coast States, coastal zone parishes, disproportionately affected counties, and nondisproportionately impacted counties are provided funds directly by Treasury through grants to carry out the purposes of the Act.
Disproportionately affected counties means the counties of Bay, Escambia, Franklin, Gulf, Okaloosa, Santa Rosa, Wakulla, and Walton in the State of Florida.
Disproportionately affected counties
means the counties of Bay, Escambia, Franklin, Gulf, Okaloosa, Santa Rosa, Wakulla, and Walton in the State of Florida.
Federal Water Pollution Control Act means 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
Federal Water Pollution Control Act
means 33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
Gulf Coast Region means:
Gulf Coast Region
means:
(1) In the Gulf Coast States, the coastal zones defined under section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 that border the Gulf of Mexico;
(2) Land within the coastal zones described in paragraph (1) of this definition that is held in trust by, or the use of which is by law subject solely to the discretion of, the Federal Government or officers or agents of the Federal Government;
(3) Any adjacent land, water, and watersheds, that are within 25 miles of the coastal zone described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition; and
(4) All Federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico.
Gulf Coast State means any of the States of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.
Gulf Coast State
means any of the States of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.
Gulf Coast State entity means a party that carries out the duties of a state for the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program under § 34.702.
Gulf Coast State entity
means a party that carries out the duties of a state for the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program under § 34.702.
Infrastructure means the public facilities or systems needed to support commerce and economic development. These installations and facilities span a wide range, including highways, airports, roads, buildings, transit systems, port facilities, railways, telecommunications, water and sewer systems, public electric and gas utilities, levees, seawalls, breakwaters, major pumping stations, and flood gates. Infrastructure encompasses new construction, upgrades and repairs to existing facilities or systems, and associated land acquisition and planning.
Infrastructure
means the public facilities or systems needed to support commerce and economic development. These installations and facilities span a wide range, including highways, airports, roads, buildings, transit systems, port facilities, railways, telecommunications, water and sewer systems, public electric and gas utilities, levees, seawalls, breakwaters, major pumping stations, and flood gates. Infrastructure encompasses new construction, upgrades and repairs to existing facilities or systems, and associated land acquisition and planning.
Multiyear Implementation Plan means the plan submitted by entities eligible for funding directly from Treasury under the Direct Component, and described at § 34.303.
Multiyear Implementation Plan
means the plan submitted by entities eligible for funding directly from Treasury under the Direct Component, and described at § 34.303.
NOAA means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
NOAA
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program means the program authorized by section 1604 of the Act.
NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program
means the program authorized by section 1604 of the Act.
Nondisproportionately impacted counties means the counties of Charlotte, Citrus, Collier, Dixie, Hernando, Hillsborough, Jefferson, Lee, Levy, Manatee, Monroe, Pasco, Pinellas, Sarasota, and Taylor in the State of Florida.
Nondisproportionately impacted counties
means the counties of Charlotte, Citrus, Collier, Dixie, Hernando, Hillsborough, Jefferson, Lee, Levy, Manatee, Monroe, Pasco, Pinellas, Sarasota, and Taylor in the State of Florida.
Pass-through entity means a non-Federal entity that provides a subaward to a subrecipient to carry out part of a program under the Act.
Pass-through entity
means a non-Federal entity that provides a subaward to a subrecipient to carry out part of a program under the Act.
Planning assistance means data gathering, studies, modeling, analysis and other tasks required to prepare plans for eligible activities under § 34.201(a) through (i), including environmental review and compliance tasks and architectural and engineering studies. Planning assistance also means one-time preparations that will allow the recipient to establish systems and processes needed to review grant applications, award grants, monitor grants after award, and audit compliance with respect to eligible activities under § 34.201 in a Multiyear Implementation Plan or State Expenditure Plan.
Planning assistance
means data gathering, studies, modeling, analysis and other tasks required to prepare plans for eligible activities under § 34.201(a) through (i), including environmental review and compliance tasks and architectural and engineering studies. Planning assistance also means one-time preparations that will allow the recipient to establish systems and processes needed to review grant applications, award grants, monitor grants after award, and audit compliance with respect to eligible activities under § 34.201 in a Multiyear Implementation Plan or State Expenditure Plan.
Recipient means a non-Federal entity that receives a Federal award directly from a Federal awarding agency to carry out an activity under the Act. As used in these regulations, a recipient also includes a pass-through entity. The term recipient does not include subrecipients.
Recipient
means a non-Federal entity that receives a Federal award directly from a Federal awarding agency to carry out an activity under the Act. As used in these regulations, a recipient also includes a pass-through entity. The term recipient does not include subrecipients.
Spill Impact Component means the component of the Gulf RESTORE Program authorized by section 311(t)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which Gulf Coast States are provided funds by the Council according to a formula that the Council establishes by regulation, using criteria listed in the Act.
Spill Impact Component
means the component of the Gulf RESTORE Program authorized by section 311(t)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which Gulf Coast States are provided funds by the Council according to a formula that the Council establishes by regulation, using criteria listed in the Act.
State Expenditure Plan means the plan that each Gulf Coast State must submit to the Council for the expenditure of amounts disbursed under the Spill Impact Component, and described at § 34.503.
State Expenditure Plan
means the plan that each Gulf Coast State must submit to the Council for the expenditure of amounts disbursed under the Spill Impact Component, and described at § 34.503.
Subrecipient means a non-Federal entity that receives a subaward from a recipient to carry out an activity under the Act.
Subrecipient
means a non-Federal entity that receives a subaward from a recipient to carry out an activity under the Act.
Treasury means the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Treasury, or his/her designee.
Treasury
means the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Treasury, or his/her designee.
Trust Fund means the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund.
Trust Fund
means the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund.

Subpart B—Trust Fund


§ 34.100   The Trust Fund.

Treasury will deposit into the Trust Fund an amount equal to 80 percent of all administrative and civil penalties paid after July 6, 2012 by responsible parties in connection with the explosion on, and sinking of, the mobile offshore drilling unit Deepwater Horizon pursuant to a court order, negotiated settlement, or other instrument under section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. After these administrative and civil penalties have been deposited into the Trust Fund, the Trust Fund will terminate on the date all amounts owed to the Trust Fund have been returned to the Trust Fund, and all amounts in the Trust Fund have been expended.
Deepwater Horizon
pursuant to a court order, negotiated settlement, or other instrument under section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. After these administrative and civil penalties have been deposited into the Trust Fund, the Trust Fund will terminate on the date all amounts owed to the Trust Fund have been returned to the Trust Fund, and all amounts in the Trust Fund have been expended.

§ 34.101   Investments.

The Secretary of the Treasury will invest such amounts in the Trust Fund that are not, in the judgment of the Secretary, required to meet needs for current withdrawals. The Secretary may invest in interest-bearing obligations of the United States, having maturities suitable to the needs of the Trust Fund as determined by the Secretary. These obligations will bear interest at rates described in 31 U.S.C. 9702, unless the Secretary determines that such rates are unavailable for obligations with suitable maturities. In that event, the Secretary will select obligations of the United States bearing interest at rates determined by the Secretary, taking into consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities.

§ 34.102   Interest earned.

Interest earned on Trust Fund investments will be available as described in § 34.103(b).

§ 34.103   Allocation of funds.

The amounts in the Trust Fund are allocated among the programs in § 34.1.
(a) Available funds in the Trust Fund, other than interest, are allocated as follows:
(1) Thirty-five percent in equal shares for the Gulf Coast States to be used for the Direct Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program. Section 34.302 describes the allocation for each Gulf Coast State.
(2) Thirty percent for the Council to be used for the Comprehensive Plan Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program.
(3) Thirty percent for formula distribution to Gulf Coast States to be used for the Spill Impact Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program.
(4) Two and one-half percent to be used for the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
(5) Two and one-half percent in equal shares for the Gulf Coast States to be used for the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
(b) Within ten days of the close of a Federal fiscal year, available funds equal to the interest earned on the Trust Fund investments will be allocated, as follows:
(1) Twenty-five percent to be used for the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
(2) Twenty-five percent for the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
(3) Fifty percent for the Comprehensive Plan Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program.

§ 34.104   Expenditures.

Subject to limitations in the Act and these regulations, amounts in the Trust Fund will be available for the direct and indirect expenses of eligible activities without fiscal year limitation.

§ 34.105   Waiver.

To the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, Treasury may waive or modify a requirement in the regulations in this part in a single case or class of cases if the Secretary determines, in his or her sole discretion, that the requirement is not necessary for the deposit of amounts into, or the expenditure of amounts from, the Trust Fund. Treasury will provide public notice of any waivers or modifications granted that materially change a regulatory requirement.

Subpart C—Eligible Activities for the Section 311(t) Gulf RESTORE Program Components


§ 34.200   General.

This subpart describes policies and procedures regarding eligible activities applicable to the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, and Spill Impact Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program. Subparts D, E, F, and I of this part describe additional requirements that must be met before an activity can receive funding.
(a) Trust Fund amounts may be used to carry out an activity in whole or in part only if the following requirements are met:
(1) Costs must comply with administrative requirements and cost principles in applicable Federal laws and policies on grants.
(2) The activity must meet the eligibility requirements of the Gulf RESTORE Program as defined in § 34.201, § 34.202, or § 34.203, according to component.
(3) Activities funded through the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, and Spill Impact Component must not be included in any claim for compensation presented after July 6, 2012, to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund authorized by 26 U.S.C. 9509.
(b) A Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, and coastal zone parish may use funds available under the Direct Component or Spill Impact Component to satisfy the non-Federal cost-share of an activity that is eligible under §§ 34.201 and 34.203 and authorized by Federal law.

§ 34.201   Eligible activities for the Direct Component.

The following activities are eligible for funding under the Direct Component. Activities in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section are eligible for funding to the extent they are carried out in the Gulf Coast Region. Direct Component activities are carried out in the Gulf Coast Region when, in the reasonable judgment of the entity applying to Treasury for a grant, each severable part of the activity is primarily designed to restore or protect that geographic area. Applicants must demonstrate that the activity will be carried out in the Gulf Coast Region when they apply for a grant. Activities designed to protect or restore natural resources must be based on the best available science. All Direct Component activities must be included in and conform to the description in the Multiyear Implementation Plan required by § 34.303.
(a) Restoration and protection of the natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, and coastal wetlands of the Gulf Coast Region.
(b) Mitigation of damage to fish, wildlife, and natural resources.
(c) Implementation of a Federally-approved marine, coastal, or comprehensive conservation management plan, including fisheries monitoring.
(d) Workforce development and job creation.
(e) Improvements to or on state parks located in coastal areas affected by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
Deepwater Horizon
oil spill.
(f) Infrastructure projects benefitting the economy or ecological resources, including port infrastructure.
(g) Coastal flood protection and related infrastructure.
(h) Promotion of tourism in the Gulf Coast Region, including promotion of recreational fishing.
(i) Promotion of the consumption of seafood harvested from the Gulf Coast Region.
(j) Planning assistance. Eligible entities under § 34.302 may apply for planning assistance grants to fund preparation and amendment of the Multiyear Implementation Plan.
(k) Administrative costs.

§ 34.202   Eligible activities for the Comprehensive Plan Component.

The Council may expend funds that are available under the Comprehensive Plan Component for eligible activities under 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2) and (3), including the following:
(a) The Council may expend funds to carry out activities in the Gulf Coast Region that are included in the Comprehensive Plan, as described in 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2). An activity selected by the Council is carried out in the Gulf Coast Region when, in the reasonable judgment of the Council, each severable part of the activity is primarily designed to restore or protect that geographic area. The Council must document the basis for its judgment when it selects the activity.
(b) The Council may expend funds to develop and publish the proposed and initial Comprehensive Plans, and to implement, amend, and update the Comprehensive Plan as required by the Act or as necessary.
(c) The Council may expend funds to prepare annual reports to Congress, and other reports and audits required by the Act, these regulations, and other Federal law.
(d) The Council may expend funds to establish and operate one or more advisory committees as may be necessary to assist the Council.
(e) The Council may expend funds to collect and consider scientific and other research associated with restoration of the Gulf Coast ecosystem, including research, observation, and monitoring.
(f) Administrative expenses.

§ 34.203   Eligible activities for the Spill Impact Component.

Activities eligible for funding under the Spill Impact Component must meet the eligibility criteria in § 34.201(a) through (k), as well as the following:
(a) The activities must be included in and conform to the description in a State Expenditure Plan required in § 34.503 and approved by the Council. State entities may apply for a grant from the total amount allocated to that state under the Spill Impact Component before the Council has approved the State Expenditure Plan to fund eligible activities that are necessary to develop and submit that plan.
(b) The activities included in the State Expenditure Plan must contribute to the overall economic and ecological recovery of the Gulf Coast.
(c) Activities listed in § 34.201(a) through (g) are eligible for funding from the Spill Impact Component to the extent they are carried out in the Gulf Coast Region. For purposes of this component, an activity is carried out in the Gulf Coast Region when, in the reasonable judgment of the entity developing the State Expenditure Plan under § 34.503, each severable part of the activity is primarily designed to restore or protect that geographic area. State Expenditure Plans must include a demonstration that activities in the plan will be carried out in the Gulf Coast Region.

§ 34.204   Limitations on administrative costs and administrative expenses.

(a)(1) Of the amounts received by a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish from Treasury under the Direct Component, or from the Council under the Comprehensive Plan Component or Spill Impact Component, not more than three percent may be used for administrative costs. The three percent limit on administrative costs may be applied to the total amount of funds received by a recipient under each of the three components either on a grant-by-grant basis or on an aggregate basis. For the latter method, amounts used for administrative costs under each of the three components may not at any time exceed three percent of the aggregate of:
(i) The amounts received under a component by a recipient, beginning with the first grant through the most recent grant, and
(ii) The amounts in the Trust Fund that are allocated to, but not yet received under such component by a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish under § 34.103, consistent with the definition of administrative costs in § 34.2.
(2) The three percent limit does not apply to the administrative costs of subrecipients. All recipient and subrecipient costs are subject to the cost principles in Federal laws and policies on grants.
(3) Treasury will conduct a retrospective analysis of this provision no later than seven years after the date it becomes effective. This review will consider whether the revision ensures that the Gulf Coast States, coastal political subdivisions, and coastal zone parishes have the necessary funding to efficiently and effectively oversee and manage projects and programs for ecological and economic restoration of the Gulf Coast Region while ensuring compliance with the statutory three percent administrative cost cap.
(b) Of the amounts received by the Council under the Comprehensive Plan Component, not more than three percent may be used for administrative expenses. The three percent limit is applied to the amounts it receives under the Comprehensive Plan Component before termination of the Trust Fund. Amounts used for administrative expenses may not at any time exceed three percent of the total of the amounts received by the Council and the amounts in the Trust Fund that are allocated to, but not yet received by, the Council under § 34.103.
[[80 FR 77243, Dec. 14, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 66530, Sept. 28, 2016; 84 FR 12932, Apr. 3, 2019]]

§ 34.205   Council's audited financial statements and audits.

(a) Not later than December 1, 2014, and each year thereafter, the Council must prepare and submit to the Secretary of the Treasury an audited financial statement for the preceding Federal fiscal year, covering all accounts and associated activities of the Council.
(b) Each audited financial statement under this section must reflect:
(1) The overall financial position of the accounts and activities covered by the statement, including assets and liabilities thereof.
(2) Results of operations of the Council.
(c) The financial statements must be prepared in accordance with the form and content of the financial statements prescribed by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget for executive agencies pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3515, consistent with applicable accounting and financial reporting principles, standards, and requirements.
(d) The Treasury Inspector General may conduct audits and reviews of the Council's accounts and activities as the Inspector General deems appropriate.

Subpart D—Gulf RESTORE Program—Direct Component


§ 34.300   General.

This subpart describes the policies and procedures applicable to the Direct Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program. The funds made available under this subpart will be in the form of a grant.

§ 34.301   Responsibility for administration—Direct Component.

Treasury is responsible for awarding and administering grants and grant agreements under this subpart. Treasury will develop and apply policies and procedures consistent with the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants. Treasury also will establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its grant agreements.

§ 34.302   Allocation of funds—Direct Component.

The amounts made available in any fiscal year from the Trust Fund and allocated to this component will be available in equal shares for the Gulf Coast States for expenditure on eligible activities. The following entities are eligible to receive Direct Component grants.
(a) The amounts available to Alabama will be provided directly to the Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council, or such administrative agent as it may designate. All administrative duties of the Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council must be performed by public officials and employees that are subject to the ethics laws of the State of Alabama.
(b) Of the amounts available to Florida, 75 percent of funding will be provided directly to the eight disproportionately affected counties. Each disproportionately affected county's share is as follows: Bay County, 15.101453044%; Escambia County, 25.334760043%; Franklin County, 8.441253238%; Gulf County, 6.743202296%; Okaloosa County, 15.226456794%; Santa Rosa County, 10.497314919%; Wakulla County, 4.943148294%; and Walton County, 13.712411372%.
(c) Of the amounts available to Florida, 25 percent of funding will be provided directly to the nondisproportionately impacted counties. Each nondisproportionately impacted county's share is as follows: Charlotte County, 5.162%; Citrus County, 4.692%; Collier County, 7.019%; Dixie County, 3.484%; Hernando County, 4.982%; Hillsborough County, 13.339%; Jefferson County, 3.834%; Lee County, 8.776%; Levy County, 3.894%; Manatee County, 6.809%; Monroe County, 8.297%; Pasco County, 7.079%; Pinellas County, 11.002%; Sarasota County, 7.248%; and Taylor County, 4.383%.
(d) Of the amounts available to Louisiana, 70 percent will be provided directly to the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority Board of Louisiana, through the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority of Louisiana.
(e) Of the amounts available to Louisiana, 30 percent will be provided directly to the coastal zone parishes. Each coastal zone parish's share is as follows: Ascension, 2.42612%; Assumption, 0.93028%; Calcasieu, 5.07063%; Cameron, 2.10096%; Iberia, 2.55018%; Jefferson, 11.95309%; Lafourche, 7.86746%; Livingston, 3.32725%; Orleans, 7.12875%; Plaquemines, 17.99998%; St. Bernard, 9.66743%; St. Charles, 1.35717%; St. James, 0.75600%; St. John the Baptist, 1.11915%; St. Martin, 2.06890%; St. Mary, 1.80223%; St. Tammany, 5.53058%; Tangipahoa, 3.40337%; Terrebonne, 9.91281%; and Vermilion, 3.02766%.
(f) No parish will receive funds until the parish chief executive has certified to the Governor of Louisiana, in a form satisfactory to the Governor or the Governor's designee, that the parish has completed a comprehensive land use plan that is consistent with, or complementary to, the most recent version of the state's Coastal Master Plan approved by the Louisiana legislature.
(g) The amounts available to Mississippi will be provided directly to the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality.
(h) The amounts available to Texas will be provided directly to the Office of the Governor or to an appointee of the Office of the Governor.

§ 34.303   Application procedure—Direct Component.

The entities identified in § 34.302 are eligible to apply for their allocation as a grant. Treasury has developed an application process for grants available under this subpart that is consistent with the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants. The application process includes the following requirements:
(a) Before an eligible entity may receive a Direct Component activity grant, the grant applicant must submit a Multiyear Implementation Plan describing each activity for which it seeks funding under the Direct Component. Applications to fund preparation and amendment of the Multiyear Implementation Plan are exempt from this requirement.
(b) For each activity, the Multiyear Implementation Plan must include a narrative description demonstrating:
(1) The need for, purpose, and objectives of the activity;
(2) How the activity is eligible for funding and meets all requirements;
(3) Location of the activity;
(4) Budget for the activity;
(5) Milestones for the activity;
(6) Projected completion dates for the activity;
(7) Criteria the applicant will use to evaluate the success of each activity in helping to restore and protect the Gulf Coast Region impacted by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill;
Deepwater Horizon
oil spill;
(8) The plan was made available for public review and comment for a minimum of 45 days in a manner calculated to obtain broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and non-profit organizations; and
(9) Each activity in the plan was approved after consideration of meaningful input from the public. Treasury may require a standard format and additional information in the plans. Plans can be phased and incremental and may be modified later by the applicant. If the applicant has requested or anticipates requesting funding for any part of the activity from other sources, including other components in the Act, the applicant must identify the source, state the amount of funding, and provide the current status of the request. For the State of Louisiana parishes, the applicant must submit information demonstrating compliance with § 34.302(f).
(c) Material modifications to a Multiyear Implementation Plan are subject to all applicable requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The applicant must include supporting information in each grant application that:
(1) Proposed activities meet the statutory requirements for eligibility; and
(2) Each activity designed to protect or restore natural resources is based on best available science.
(e) An applicant may satisfy some or all of the requirements in this section and § 34.802(a) through (e) if it can demonstrate in its application to Treasury that before July 6, 2012:
(1) The applicant established conditions to carry out activities that are substantively the same as the requirements in this section and § 34.802(a) through (e).
(2) The applicable activity qualified as one or more of the eligible activities in § 34.201.

§ 34.304   Grant award process—Direct Component.

Upon determining that the Multiyear Implementation Plan and the grant application meet the requirements of these regulations and the Act, Treasury will execute a grant agreement with the recipient that complies with subpart I of this part, the Act, and other Federal laws and policies on grants.

§ 34.305   Use of funds—Direct Component.

(a) An activity may be funded in whole or in part if the applicable requirements of subparts C and D of this part are met.
(b) When awarding contracts to carry out an activity under the Direct Component, a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish may give preference to individuals and companies that reside in, are headquartered in, or are principally engaged in business in the state of project execution consistent with Federal laws and policies on grants.
(c) A Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish may propose to issue subawards for eligible activities. Recipients that propose to issue subawards must demonstrate their ability to conduct subrecipient monitoring and management, as required by Federal laws and policies on grants.

§ 34.306   Reports—Direct Component.

Recipients must submit reports as prescribed by Treasury.

§ 34.307   Recordkeeping—Direct Component.

Recipients must maintain records as prescribed by Treasury, and make the records available to Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General.

§ 34.308   Audits—Direct Component.

Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General, may conduct audits and reviews of recipient's accounts and activities relating to the Act as deemed appropriate by Treasury.

Subpart E—Gulf RESTORE Program—Comprehensive Plan Component


§ 34.400   General.

This subpart describes the policies and procedures applicable to the Comprehensive Plan Component. The Comprehensive Plan is developed by the Council in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2) and will include activities the Council intends to carry out, subject to available funding. When selecting activities to carry out in the first three years, except for certain projects and programs that were authorized prior to July 6, 2012, the Council will give highest priority to projects meeting one or more of the criteria in 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2)(D)(iii).

§ 34.401   Responsibility for administration—Comprehensive Plan Component.

(a) After selecting Comprehensive Plan projects and programs to be funded, the Council must assign primary authority and responsibility for overseeing and implementing projects and programs to a Gulf Coast State or Federal agency represented on the Council, which are called assignees in these regulations. In assigning responsibility, the Council must enter into a grant agreement with the Gulf Coast State or an interagency agreement with the Federal agency. Any grant agreement must be consistent with applicable Federal laws and policies on grants. The Council must specify whether any part of an assignee's responsibility may be further assigned to another entity and under what terms.
assignees
in these regulations. In assigning responsibility, the Council must enter into a grant agreement with the Gulf Coast State or an interagency agreement with the Federal agency. Any grant agreement must be consistent with applicable Federal laws and policies on grants. The Council must specify whether any part of an assignee's responsibility may be further assigned to another entity and under what terms.
(b) When an assignee's grant or subaward to, or cooperative agreement with, a nongovernmental entity would equal or exceed ten percent of the total amount provided to the assignee for that activity, the Council must publish in the Federal Register and deliver to the following Congressional Committees at least 30 days prior to the assignee entering into an agreement the name of the recipient or subrecipient; a brief description of the activity, including its purpose; and the amount of the award.
Federal Register
and deliver to the following Congressional Committees at least 30 days prior to the assignee entering into an agreement the name of the recipient or subrecipient; a brief description of the activity, including its purpose; and the amount of the award.
(1) House of Representatives committees: Committee on Science, Space, and Technology; Committee on Natural Resources; Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; Committee on Appropriations.
(2) Senate committees: Committee on Environment and Public Works; Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation; Committee on Energy and Natural Resources; Committee on Appropriations.
(c) The Council must establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its grant agreements and interagency agreements.

§ 34.402   Grant administration—Comprehensive Plan Component.

The Council must publish policies and procedures for administration of Comprehensive Plan Component grants that are consistent with applicable Federal laws and policies on grants. These grant policies and procedures must include uniform guidelines for assignees to use when selecting subrecipients, awarding grants and subawards, and monitoring compliance. The Council must also establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its grant agreements.

§ 34.403   Use of funds—Comprehensive Plan Component.

An activity may be funded in whole or in part if the applicable requirements of subparts C and E of this part are met.

§ 34.404   Reports—Comprehensive Plan Component.

Assignees must submit reports as prescribed by the Council or Treasury. In addition, the Council must submit reports as prescribed by Treasury.

§ 34.405   Recordkeeping—Comprehensive Plan Component.

Assignees must maintain records as prescribed by the Council and Treasury, and make the records available to the Council and Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General. In addition, the Council must make its records concerning the activities of assignees available to Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General.

§ 34.406   Audits—Comprehensive Plan Component.

The Council and Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General, may conduct audits and reviews of assignee's accounts and activities relating to the Act as any of them deems appropriate.

Subpart F—Gulf RESTORE Program—Spill Impact Component


§ 34.500   General.

This subpart describes the policies and procedures applicable to the Spill Impact Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program. The funds made available under this subpart will be in the form of grants.

§ 34.501   Responsibility for administration—Spill Impact Component.

The Council is responsible for awarding and administering grants under this subpart.

§ 34.502   Allocation of funds—Spill Impact Component.

The Council will allocate amounts to the Gulf Coast States based on the Act and regulations promulgated by the Council. The Council will make allocated funds available through grants for activities described in a State Expenditure Plan approved by the Council.

§ 34.503   State Expenditure Plans—Spill Impact Component.

Each Gulf Coast State, through its Governor or the Governor's designee, must submit a State Expenditure Plan to the Council for its approval that describes each activity for which the state seeks funding. The Council must develop requirements for these plans, including the requirements below.
(a) The State Expenditure Plan must be developed by:
(1) In Alabama, the Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council.
(2) In Florida, a consortium of local political subdivisions that includes, at a minimum, one representative of each county affected by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
Deepwater Horizon
oil spill.
(3) In Louisiana, the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority of Louisiana, as approved by the Board.
(4) In Mississippi, the Office of the Governor or an appointee of the Office of the Governor.
(5) In Texas, the Office of the Governor or an appointee of the Office of the Governor.
(b) The State Expenditure Plan must describe how it takes into consideration the Comprehensive Plan and is consistent with the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. In addition, the State Expenditure Plan must describe the processes used:
(1) To evaluate and select activities included in the plan;
(2) To assess the capability of third party entities that will implement activities in the plan;
(3) To prevent conflicts of interest in the development and implementation of the plan;
(4) To obtain public review and comment in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section; and
(5) To verify compliance with the requirements of § 34.203 and this subpart.
(c) For each activity in the State Expenditure Plan, the plan must include a narrative description demonstrating:
(1) The need for, purpose, and objectives of the activity;
(2) How the activity is eligible for funding and meets all requirements of § 34.203 and this subpart;
(3) Location of the activity;
(4) Budget for the activity;
(5) Milestones for the activity;
(6) Projected completion dates for the activity; and
(7) Criteria the applicant will use to evaluate the success of each activity in helping to restore and protect the Gulf Coast Region. Plans can be phased or incremental and may be modified with the Council's approval. If funding has been requested from other sources, including other components of the Act, the plan must identify the source, state how much funding was requested, and provide the current status of the request.
(d) The State Expenditure Plan must demonstrate how the activities in the plan will contribute to the overall economic and ecological recovery of the Gulf Coast, and how each activity that would restore and protect natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, coastal wetlands or the economy of the Gulf Coast is based on the best available science.
(e) The State Expenditure Plan must demonstrate that activities described in § 34.201(a) through (g) will be carried out in the Gulf Coast Region, as described in § 34.203(c).
(f) No more than 25 percent of funding under the Spill Impact Component is available to a Gulf Coast State under this subpart to pay for infrastructure, unless the Governor or the Governor's representative on the Council certifies that:
(1) The ecosystem restoration needs in the state will be addressed by the activities in the proposed plan; and
(2) Additional investment in infrastructure is required to mitigate the impacts of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill to the ecosystem or economy.
Deepwater Horizon
Oil Spill to the ecosystem or economy.
(g) Before being submitted to the Council for approval, a State Expenditure Plan must be available for public review and comment for a minimum of 45 days, in a manner calculated to obtain broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and non-profit organizations.
(h) If the Council disapproves a State Expenditure Plan, the Council must notify the impacted state in writing and consult with the state to address any identified deficiencies with the plan. If the Council fails to approve or take action within 60 days after the date on which the Council receives the plan, the state may obtain expedited judicial review within 90 days in a United States district court located in the state seeking the review.
(i) The Council must publish guidelines explaining when modifications to a State Expenditure Plan require the Council's approval. Material modifications to a State Expenditure Plan are subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

§ 34.504   Grant administration—Spill Impact Component.

The Council must publish policies and procedures for administration of the Spill Impact Component grants that are consistent with applicable Federal laws and policies on grants. The Council must also establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its grant agreements.

§ 34.505   Use of funds—Spill Impact Component.

An activity may be funded in whole or in part if the applicable requirements of subparts C and F of this part are met.

§ 34.506   Reports—Spill Impact Component.

Recipients must submit reports as prescribed by the Council or Treasury. In addition, the Council must submit reports as prescribed by Treasury.

§ 34.507   Recordkeeping—Spill Impact Component.

Recipients must maintain records as prescribed by the Council and make the records available to the Council, and Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General. In addition, the Council must make its records concerning the activities of recipients available to Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General.

§ 34.508   Audits—Spill Impact Component.

The Council and Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General, may conduct audits and reviews of a recipient's accounts and activities relating to the Act as any of them deem appropriate.

Subpart G—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program


§ 34.600   General.

This subpart describes policies and procedures applicable to the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program. The program's purpose is to carry out research, observation, and monitoring to support, to the maximum extent practicable, the long-term sustainability of the ecosystem, fish stocks, fish habitat, and the recreational, commercial, and charter fishing industries in the Gulf of Mexico.

§ 34.601   Responsibility for administration—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.

NOAA is responsible for establishing and administering this program, in consultation with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. NOAA must develop, publish, and apply policies and procedures for the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program consistent with the Act, this subpart, and Federal laws and policies on grants. NOAA must monitor compliance with its grant agreements, cooperative agreements, contracts, and agreements funded through the Trust Fund. NOAA and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service will consult with the Regional Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council and the Gulf States Marine Fisheries Commission in carrying out the program.

§ 34.602   Use of funds and eligible activities—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.

(a) Amounts made available to NOAA may be expended to carry out a program comprised of activities described in section 1604 of the Act. These activities include coordination of science and technology programs and stakeholder engagement, in accordance with section 1604(f) of the Act, as well as the following activities with respect to the Gulf of Mexico:
(1) Marine and estuarine research.
(2) Marine and estuarine ecosystem monitoring and ocean observation.
(3) Data collection and stock assessments.
(4) Pilot programs for fishery independent data and reduction of exploitation of spawning aggregations.
(5) Cooperative research.
(b) NOAA may also expend amounts made available from the Trust Fund for administrative expenses connected with the program. All funds must be expended in compliance with the Act, these regulations, and other applicable law.

§ 34.603   Limitations on activities—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.

None of the Trust Fund amounts may be used for the following activities:
(a) For any existing or planned research led by NOAA, unless agreed to in writing by the grant recipient.
(b) To implement existing regulations or initiate new regulations promulgated or proposed by NOAA.
(c) To develop or approve a new limited access privilege program (as that term is used in section 303A of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act [16 U.S.C. 1853(a)]) for any fishery under the jurisdiction of the South Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic, New England, or Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Councils.

§ 34.604   Limitations on administrative expenses—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.

(a) Of the amounts received by NOAA under the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program, not more than three percent may be used for administrative expenses.
(b) The three percent limit is applied to the total amount of funds received by NOAA, beginning with the first fiscal year it receives funds through the end of the fourth, or most recent fiscal year, whichever is later.
(c) NOAA may seek reimbursement of administrative expenses incurred after the first deposit into the Trust Fund, to the extent permitted by Federal law. Administrative expenses incurred prior to the first deposit into the Trust Fund are not reimbursable.

§ 34.605   Reports—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.

NOAA must submit reports as prescribed by Treasury.

§ 34.606   Recordkeeping—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.

Recipients and other entities receiving funds under the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program must maintain records as prescribed by NOAA and make the records available to NOAA.

§ 34.607   Audits—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.

NOAA and the Treasury Inspector General may conduct audits and reviews of recipient's accounts and activities relating to the Act as either of them deems appropriate.

Subpart H—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program


§ 34.700   General.

This subpart describes the policies and procedures applicable to the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program. The program's purpose is to establish centers of excellence to conduct research only on the Gulf Coast Region. The funds made available to the Gulf Coast States under this subpart will be in the form of a grant.

§ 34.701   Responsibility for administration—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

Treasury is responsible for awarding grants to the Gulf Coast States, which will use the amounts made available to award grants to nongovernmental entities and consortia in the Gulf Coast Region for the establishment of Centers of Excellence. Treasury will develop and apply policies and procedures consistent with this Act and Federal laws and policies on grants. Each Gulf Coast State entity issuing grants must establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its subaward agreements.

§ 34.702   Allocation of funds—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

An equal share of funds will be available to each Gulf Coast State to carry out eligible activities. The duties of a Gulf Coast State will be carried out by the following entities:
(a) In Alabama, the Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council, or such administrative agent as it may designate.
(b) In Florida, the Florida Institute of Oceanography.
(c) In Louisiana, the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority Board of Louisiana, through the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority of Louisiana.
(d) In Mississippi, the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality.
(e) In Texas, the Office of the Governor or an appointee of the Office of the Governor.

§ 34.703   Application procedure—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

Treasury has developed an application process for grants available to the Gulf Coast States under this subpart that is consistent with the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants. The process includes the following requirements:
(a) Each Gulf Coast State must describe the competitive process that the state will use to select one or more Centers of Excellence. The competitive process must allow nongovernmental entities and consortia in the Gulf Coast Region, including public and private institutions of higher education, to compete. The process must give priority to entities and consortia that demonstrate the ability to establish the broadest cross-section of participants in the grant with interest and expertise in science, technology, and monitoring in the discipline(s) on which the proposal is focused. The process must also guard against conflicts of interest.
(b) Each Gulf Coast State must describe in its application the state rules and policies applying to subawards it will issue under this subpart. At a minimum, these state rules and policies must include the competitive selection process and measures to guard against conflicts of interest.
(c) Each Gulf Coast State must demonstrate in its application that the state rules and policies applying to subawards it will issue under this subpart were published and available for public review and comment for a minimum of 45 days, and that they were approved after consideration of meaningful input from the public, including broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and non-profit organizations. These requirements do not apply to state statutes and regulations, or to policies that were in effect prior to August 15, 2014.
(d) Each application must state the amount of funding requested and the purposes for which the funds will be used.

§ 34.704   Use of funds and eligible activities—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

(a) A Gulf Coast State receiving funds under this subpart must establish a grant program that complies with the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants.
(b) Gulf Coast States may use funds available under this subpart to award competitive subawards for the establishment of Centers of Excellence that focus on science, technology, and monitoring in at least one of the following disciplines:
(1) Coastal and deltaic sustainability, restoration, and protection, including solutions and technology that allow citizens to live in a safe and sustainable manner in a coastal delta in the Gulf Coast Region.
(2) Coastal fisheries and wildlife ecosystem research and monitoring in the Gulf Coast Region.
(3) Offshore energy development, including research and technology to improve the sustainable and safe development of energy resources in the Gulf of Mexico.
(4) Sustainable and resilient growth and economic and commercial development in the Gulf Coast Region.
(5) Comprehensive observation, monitoring, and mapping of the Gulf of Mexico.

§ 34.705   Ineligible activities—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

Any activity that is not authorized under the provisions of § 34.704 is ineligible for funding under this subpart.

§ 34.706   Reports—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

Each Gulf Coast State entity must submit the following reports:
(a) An annual report to the Council in a form prescribed by the Council that includes information on subrecipients, subaward amounts, disciplines addressed, and any other information required by the Council. When the subrecipient is a consortium, the annual report must also identify the consortium members. This information will be included in the Council's annual report to Congress.
(b) Reports as prescribed by Treasury.

§ 34.707   Recordkeeping—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

Recipients must maintain records as prescribed by Treasury and make the records available to Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General.

§ 34.708   Audits—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General, may conduct audits and reviews of each recipient's accounts and activities relating to the Act as deemed appropriate by Treasury.

Subpart I—Agreements


§ 34.800   General.

This subpart describes procedures applicable to grant agreements used by Treasury, the Council (including Federal agencies carrying out responsibilities for the Council), NOAA, Gulf Coast States, coastal political subdivisions, and coastal zone parishes in making awards under subparts D, E, F, G, and H of this part. It also describes Treasury's authority to inspect records and the Treasury Inspector General's authority under the Act.

§ 34.801   Grant agreements.

The grant agreements used must conform to the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants, including audit requirements.

§ 34.802   Certifications.

At a minimum, grant applications and agreements for the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, and Spill Impact Component must contain the following certifications. The certification must be signed by an authorized senior official of the entity receiving grant funds who can legally bind the organization or entity, and who has oversight for the administration and use of the funds in question. The certification in paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to planning assistance funds for the preparation and amendment of the Multiyear Implementation Plan.
(a) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement has been designed to plan for or undertake activities to restore and protect the natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, coastal wetlands, or economy of the Gulf Coast Region.
(b) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement is designed to carry out one or more of the eligible activities for this component.
(c) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement was part of a plan made available for public review and comment in a manner calculated to obtain broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations, and that the activity was selected after consideration of meaningful input from the public, as described in the grant application.
(d) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement that protects or restores natural resources is based on the best available science, as that term is defined in 31 CFR part 34.
(e) I certify that this recipient has procedures in place for procuring property and services under this award that are consistent with the procurement standards applying to Federal grants. This recipient agrees that it will not request funds under this award for any contract unless this certification remains true and accurate.
(f) I certify that a conflict of interest policy is in effect and covering each activity funded under this Agreement.
(g) I make each of these certifications based on my personal knowledge and belief after reasonable and diligent inquiry, and I affirm that this recipient maintains written documentation sufficient to support each certification made above, and that this recipient's compliance with each of these certifications is a condition of this recipient's initial and continuing receipt and use of the funds provided under this Agreement.

§ 34.803   Conditions.

At a minimum, each grant agreement under subparts D, E, F, G, and H of this part must contain the following conditions:
(a) The recipient must immediately report any indication of fraud, waste, abuse, or potentially criminal activity pertaining to grant funds to Treasury and the Treasury Inspector General.
(b) The recipient must maintain detailed records sufficient to account for the receipt, obligation, and expenditure of grant funds. The recipient must track program income.
(c) Prior to disbursing funds to a subrecipient, the recipient must execute a legally binding written agreement with the entity receiving the subaward. The written agreement will extend all the applicable program requirements to the subrecipient.
(d) The recipient must use the funds only for the purposes identified in the agreement.
(e) The recipient must report at the conclusion of the grant period, or other period specified by the Federal agency administering the grant, on the use of funds pursuant to the agreement.
(f) Trust Fund amounts may only be used to acquire land or interests in land by purchase, exchange, or donation from a willing seller.
(g) None of the Trust Fund amounts may be used to acquire land in fee title by the Federal Government unless the land is acquired by exchange or donation or the acquisition is necessary for the restoration and protection of the natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, and coastal wetlands of the Gulf Coast Region and has the concurrence of the Governor of the state in which the acquisition will take place.

§ 34.804   Noncompliance.

(a) If Treasury determines that a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish has expended funds received under the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, or Spill Impact Component on an ineligible activity, Treasury will make no additional funds available to that recipient from any part of the Trust Fund until the recipient has deposited in the Trust Fund an amount equal to the amount expended for an ineligible activity, or Treasury has authorized the recipient to expend an equal amount from the recipient's own funds for an activity that meets the requirements of the Act.
(b) If Treasury determines that a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish has materially violated a grant agreement under the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, or Spill Impact Component, Treasury will make no additional funds available to that recipient from any part of the Trust Fund until the recipient corrects the violation.
(c) As a condition of receiving funds, recipients and subrecipients shall make available their records and personnel to Treasury in order to carry out the purposes of this section.

§ 34.805   Treasury Inspector General.

In addition to other authorities available under the Act, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury is authorized to conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of activities funded through grants under the Act.

PART 35—PANDEMIC RELIEF PROGRAMS

[Authority:42 U.S.C. 802(f); 42 U.S.C. 803(f); 31 U.S.C. 321; 12 U.S.C. 5701-5710; Division N, Title V, Subtitle B, Pub. L. 116-260, 134 Stat. 1182 (12 U.S.C. 4703a); Section 104A, Pub. L. 103-325, 108 Stat. 2160, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.); Pub. L. 117-2, 135 Stat. 4 (42 U.S.C. 802 et seq.).]
Authority:
42 U.S.C. 802(f); 42 U.S.C. 803(f); 31 U.S.C. 321; 12 U.S.C. 5701-5710; Division N, Title V, Subtitle B, Pub. L. 116-260, 134 Stat. 1182 (12 U.S.C. 4703a); Section 104A, Pub. L. 103-325, 108 Stat. 2160, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
); Pub. L. 117-2, 135 Stat. 4 (42 U.S.C. 802
et seq.
).
[Source:86 FR 13455, Mar. 9, 2021, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
86 FR 13455, Mar. 9, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds

[Authority:42 U.S.C. 802(f); 42 U.S.C. 803(f); section 102(c) of Division LL of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub. L. 117-328).]
Authority:
42 U.S.C. 802(f); 42 U.S.C. 803(f); section 102(c) of Division LL of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub. L. 117-328).
[Source:88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

§ 35.1   Purpose.

This part implements sections 602 and 603 of the Social Security Act, as added by section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act (Subtitle M of Title IX of Pub. L. 117-2) and amended by section 102 of Division LL of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub. L. 117-328).

§ 35.2   Applicability.

This part applies to states, territories, Tribal governments, metropolitan cities, nonentitlement units of local government, counties, and units of general local government that accept a payment or transfer of funds made under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act.

§ 35.3   Definitions.

Baseline means tax revenue of the recipient for its fiscal year ending in 2019, adjusted for inflation in each reporting year using the Bureau of Economic Analysis's Implicit Price Deflator for the gross domestic product of the United States.
Baseline
means tax revenue of the recipient for its fiscal year ending in 2019, adjusted for inflation in each reporting year using the Bureau of Economic Analysis's Implicit Price Deflator for the gross domestic product of the United States.
Capital expenditures has the same meaning given in 2 CFR 200.1.
Capital expenditures
has the same meaning given in 2 CFR 200.1.
County means a county, parish, or other equivalent county division (as defined by the Census Bureau).
County
means a county, parish, or other equivalent county division (as defined by the Census Bureau).
Covered benefits include, but are not limited to, the costs of all types of leave (vacation, family-related, sick, military, bereavement, sabbatical, jury duty), employee insurance (health, life, dental, vision), retirement (pensions, 401(k)), unemployment benefit plans (Federal and State), workers' compensation insurance, and Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes (which includes Social Security and Medicare taxes).
Covered benefits
include, but are not limited to, the costs of all types of leave (vacation, family-related, sick, military, bereavement, sabbatical, jury duty), employee insurance (health, life, dental, vision), retirement (pensions, 401(k)), unemployment benefit plans (Federal and State), workers' compensation insurance, and Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes (which includes Social Security and Medicare taxes).
Covered change means a change in law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase. A change in law includes any final legislative or regulatory action, a new or changed administrative interpretation, and the phase-in or taking effect of any statute or rule if the phase-in or taking effect was not prescribed prior to the start of the covered period.
Covered change
means a change in law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase. A change in law includes any final legislative or regulatory action, a new or changed administrative interpretation, and the phase-in or taking effect of any statute or rule if the phase-in or taking effect was not prescribed prior to the start of the covered period.
Covered period means, with respect to a state or territory, the period that:
Covered period
means, with respect to a state or territory, the period that:
(1) Begins on March 3, 2021; and
(2) Ends on the last day of the fiscal year of such State or territory in which all funds received by the State or territory from a payment made under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act have been expended or returned to, or recovered by, the Secretary.
COVID-19 means the Coronavirus Disease 2019.
COVID-19
means the Coronavirus Disease 2019.
COVID-19 public health emergency means the period beginning on January 27, 2020, and lasting until the termination of the national emergency concerning the COVID-19 outbreak declared pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
COVID-19 public health emergency
means the period beginning on January 27, 2020, and lasting until the termination of the national emergency concerning the COVID-19 outbreak declared pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).
Delivery sequence means the order in which disaster relief agencies and organizations provide assistance pursuant to 44 CFR 206.191.
Delivery sequence
means the order in which disaster relief agencies and organizations provide assistance pursuant to 44 CFR 206.191.
Deposit means an extraordinary payment of an accrued, unfunded liability. The term deposit does not refer to routine contributions made by an employer to pension funds as part of the employer's obligations related to payroll, such as either a pension contribution consisting of a normal cost component related to current employees or a component addressing the amortization of unfunded liabilities calculated by reference to the employer's payroll costs.
Deposit
means an extraordinary payment of an accrued, unfunded liability. The term deposit does not refer to routine contributions made by an employer to pension funds as part of the employer's obligations related to payroll, such as either a pension contribution consisting of a normal cost component related to current employees or a component addressing the amortization of unfunded liabilities calculated by reference to the employer's payroll costs.
Disaster loss means a loss suffered as a result of a major disaster or emergency declared under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170).
Disaster loss
means a loss suffered as a result of a major disaster or emergency declared under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170).
Eligible employer means an employer of an eligible worker who performs essential work.
Eligible employer
means an employer of an eligible worker who performs essential work.
Eligible workers means workers needed to maintain continuity of operations of essential critical infrastructure sectors, including health care; emergency response; sanitation, disinfection, and cleaning work; maintenance work; grocery stores, restaurants, food production, and food delivery; pharmacy; biomedical research; behavioral health work; medical testing and diagnostics; home- and community-based health care or assistance with activities of daily living; family or childcare; social services work; public health work; vital services to Tribes; any work performed by an employee of a State, local, or Tribal government; educational work, school nutrition work, and other work required to operate a school facility; laundry work; elections work; solid waste or hazardous materials management, response, and cleanup work; work requiring physical interaction with patients; dental care work; transportation and warehousing; work at hotel and commercial lodging facilities that are used for COVID-19 mitigation and containment; work in a mortuary; and work in critical clinical research, development, and testing necessary for COVID-19 response.
Eligible workers
means workers needed to maintain continuity of operations of essential critical infrastructure sectors, including health care; emergency response; sanitation, disinfection, and cleaning work; maintenance work; grocery stores, restaurants, food production, and food delivery; pharmacy; biomedical research; behavioral health work; medical testing and diagnostics; home- and community-based health care or assistance with activities of daily living; family or childcare; social services work; public health work; vital services to Tribes; any work performed by an employee of a State, local, or Tribal government; educational work, school nutrition work, and other work required to operate a school facility; laundry work; elections work; solid waste or hazardous materials management, response, and cleanup work; work requiring physical interaction with patients; dental care work; transportation and warehousing; work at hotel and commercial lodging facilities that are used for COVID-19 mitigation and containment; work in a mortuary; and work in critical clinical research, development, and testing necessary for COVID-19 response.
(1) With respect to a recipient that is a metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or county, workers in any additional non-public sectors as each chief executive officer of such recipient may designate as critical to protect the health and well-being of the residents of their metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or county; or
(2) With respect to a State, territory, or Tribal government, workers in any additional non-public sectors as each Governor of a State or territory, or each Tribal government, may designate as critical to protect the health and well-being of the residents of their State, territory, or Tribal government.
Emergency relief means assistance that is needed to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of catastrophe.
Emergency relief
means assistance that is needed to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of catastrophe.
Essential work means work that:
Essential work
means work that:
(1) Is not performed while teleworking from a residence; and
(2) Involves:
(i) Regular in-person interactions with patients, the public, or coworkers of the individual that is performing the work; or
(ii) Regular physical handling of items that were handled by, or are to be handled by patients, the public, or coworkers of the individual that is performing the work.
Funds means, with respect to a recipient, amounts provided to the recipient pursuant to a payment made under section 602(b) or 603(b) of the Social Security Act or transferred to the recipient pursuant to section 603(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.
Funds
means, with respect to a recipient, amounts provided to the recipient pursuant to a payment made under section 602(b) or 603(b) of the Social Security Act or transferred to the recipient pursuant to section 603(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.
General revenue means money that is received from tax revenue, current charges, and miscellaneous general revenue, excluding refunds and other correcting transactions and proceeds from issuance of debt or the sale of investments, agency or private trust transactions, and intergovernmental transfers from the Federal Government, including transfers made pursuant to section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act. General revenue also includes revenue from liquor stores that are owned and operated by state and local governments. General revenue does not include revenues from utilities, except recipients may choose to include revenue from utilities that are part of their own government as general revenue provided the recipient does so consistently over the remainder of the period of performance. Revenue from Tribal business enterprises must be included in general revenue.
General revenue
means money that is received from tax revenue, current charges, and miscellaneous general revenue, excluding refunds and other correcting transactions and proceeds from issuance of debt or the sale of investments, agency or private trust transactions, and intergovernmental transfers from the Federal Government, including transfers made pursuant to section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act. General revenue also includes revenue from liquor stores that are owned and operated by state and local governments. General revenue does not include revenues from utilities, except recipients may choose to include revenue from utilities that are part of their own government as general revenue provided the recipient does so consistently over the remainder of the period of performance. Revenue from Tribal business enterprises must be included in general revenue.
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act means the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Public Law 117-58, 135 Stat. 429 (Nov. 15, 2021).
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
means the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Public Law 117-58, 135 Stat. 429 (Nov. 15, 2021).
Intergovernmental transfers means money received from other governments, including grants and shared taxes.
Intergovernmental transfers
means money received from other governments, including grants and shared taxes.
Low-income household means a household with:
Low-income household
means a household with:
(1) Income at or below 185 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines for the size of its household based on the poverty guidelines published most recently by the Department of Health and Human Services; or
(2) Income at or below 40 percent of the Area Median Income for its county and size of household based on data published most recently by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Micro-business means a small business that has five or fewer employees, one or more of whom owns the small business.
Micro-business
means a small business that has five or fewer employees, one or more of whom owns the small business.
Moderate-income household means a household with:
Moderate-income household
means a household with:
(1) Income at or below 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines for the size of its household based on poverty guidelines published most recently by the Department of Health and Human Services; or
(2) Income at or below 65 percent of the Area Median Income for its county and size of household based on data published most recently by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Metropolitan city has the meaning given that term in section 102(a)(4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(4)) and includes cities that relinquish or defer their status as a metropolitan city for purposes of receiving allocations under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306) for fiscal year 2021.
Metropolitan city
has the meaning given that term in section 102(a)(4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(4)) and includes cities that relinquish or defer their status as a metropolitan city for purposes of receiving allocations under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306) for fiscal year 2021.
Natural disaster means any hurricane, tornado, storm, flood, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, drought, or fire, in each case attributable to natural causes, that causes or may cause substantial damage, injury, or imminent threat to civilian property or persons. “Natural disaster” may also include another type of natural catastrophe, attributable to natural causes, that causes or may cause substantial damage, injury, or imminent threat to civilian property or persons.
Natural disaster
means any hurricane, tornado, storm, flood, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, drought, or fire, in each case attributable to natural causes, that causes or may cause substantial damage, injury, or imminent threat to civilian property or persons. “Natural disaster” may also include another type of natural catastrophe, attributable to natural causes, that causes or may cause substantial damage, injury, or imminent threat to civilian property or persons.
Net reduction in total spending is measured as the State or territory's total spending for a given reporting year excluding its spending of funds, subtracted from its total spending for its fiscal year ending in 2019, adjusted for inflation using the Bureau of Economic Analysis's Implicit Price Deflator for the gross domestic product of the United States for that reporting year.
Net reduction in total spending
is measured as the State or territory's total spending for a given reporting year excluding its spending of funds, subtracted from its total spending for its fiscal year ending in 2019, adjusted for inflation using the Bureau of Economic Analysis's Implicit Price Deflator for the gross domestic product of the United States for that reporting year.
Nonentitlement unit of local government means a “city,” as that term is defined in section 102(a)(5) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(5)), that is not a metropolitan city.
Nonentitlement unit of local government
means a “city,” as that term is defined in section 102(a)(5) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(5)), that is not a metropolitan city.
Nonprofit means a nonprofit organization that is exempt from Federal income taxation and that is described in section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Nonprofit
means a nonprofit organization that is exempt from Federal income taxation and that is described in section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Obligation means an order placed for property and services and entering into contracts, subawards, and similar transactions that require payment. An obligation also means a requirement under federal law or regulation or provision of the award terms and conditions to which a recipient becomes subject as a result of receiving or expending funds.
Obligation
means an order placed for property and services and entering into contracts, subawards, and similar transactions that require payment. An obligation also means a requirement under federal law or regulation or provision of the award terms and conditions to which a recipient becomes subject as a result of receiving or expending funds.
Operating expenses means costs necessary to operate and manage a public transportation system, including driver salaries, fuel, and items having a useful life of less than one year. Operating expenses do not include preventive maintenance activities.
Operating expenses
means costs necessary to operate and manage a public transportation system, including driver salaries, fuel, and items having a useful life of less than one year. Operating expenses do not include preventive maintenance activities.
Pension fund means a defined benefit plan and does not include a defined contribution plan.
Pension fund
means a defined benefit plan and does not include a defined contribution plan.
Period of performance means the time period described in § 35.5 during which a recipient may obligate and expend funds in accordance with sections 602(c)(1), 602(c)(5)(E), 603(c)(1), and 603(c)(6)(D) of the Social Security Act and this subpart.
Period of performance
means the time period described in § 35.5 during which a recipient may obligate and expend funds in accordance with sections 602(c)(1), 602(c)(5)(E), 603(c)(1), and 603(c)(6)(D) of the Social Security Act and this subpart.
Premium pay means an amount of up to $13 per hour that is paid to an eligible worker, in addition to wages or remuneration the eligible worker otherwise receives, for all work performed by the eligible worker during the COVID-19 public health emergency. Such amount may not exceed $25,000 in total over the period of performance with respect to any single eligible worker. Premium pay may be awarded to non-hourly and part-time eligible workers performing essential work. Premium pay will be considered to be in addition to wages or remuneration the eligible worker otherwise receives if, as measured on an hourly rate, the premium pay is:
Premium pay
means an amount of up to $13 per hour that is paid to an eligible worker, in addition to wages or remuneration the eligible worker otherwise receives, for all work performed by the eligible worker during the COVID-19 public health emergency. Such amount may not exceed $25,000 in total over the period of performance with respect to any single eligible worker. Premium pay may be awarded to non-hourly and part-time eligible workers performing essential work. Premium pay will be considered to be in addition to wages or remuneration the eligible worker otherwise receives if, as measured on an hourly rate, the premium pay is:
(1) With regard to work that the eligible worker previously performed, pay and remuneration equal to the sum of all wages and remuneration previously received plus up to $13 per hour with no reduction, substitution, offset, or other diminishment of the eligible worker's previous, current, or prospective wages or remuneration; or
(2) With regard to work that the eligible worker continues to perform, pay of up to $13 per hour that is in addition to the eligible worker's regular rate of wages or remuneration, with no reduction, substitution, offset, or other diminishment of the worker's current and prospective wages or remuneration.
Qualified census tract has the same meaning given in 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii)(I).
Qualified census tract
has the same meaning given in 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii)(I).
Recipient means a State, territory, Tribal government, metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, county, or unit of general local government that receives a payment made under section 602(b) or 603(b) of the Social Security Act or transfer pursuant to section 603(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.
Recipient
means a State, territory, Tribal government, metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, county, or unit of general local government that receives a payment made under section 602(b) or 603(b) of the Social Security Act or transfer pursuant to section 603(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.
Reporting year means a single year or partial year within the covered period, aligned to the current fiscal year of the State or territory during the covered period.
Reporting year
means a single year or partial year within the covered period, aligned to the current fiscal year of the State or territory during the covered period.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
State means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
State
means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
Small business means a business concern or other organization that:
Small business
means a business concern or other organization that:
(1) Has no more than 500 employees or, if applicable, the size standard in number of employees established by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration for the industry in which the business concern or organization operates, and
(2) Is a small business concern as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
Surface Transportation project means any of the following:
Surface Transportation project
means any of the following:
(1) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 117;
(2) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 119;
(3) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 124, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(4) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 133;
(5) An activity to carry out 23 U.S.C. 134;
(6) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 148;
(7) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 149;
(8) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 151(f), as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(9) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 165;
(10) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 167;
(11) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 173, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(12) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 175, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(13) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 176, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(14) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 202;
(15) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 203;
(16) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 204;
(17) A project eligible under the program for national infrastructure investments commonly known as the “Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity” grant program;
(18) A project eligible for credit assistance under the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program under 23 U.S.C. chapter 6;
(19) A project that furthers the completion of a designated route of the Appalachian Development Highway System under 40 U.S.C. 14501;
(20) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5307;
(21) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5309;
(22) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5311;
(23) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5337;
(24) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5339;
(25) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 6703, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(26) A project eligible under the bridge replacement, rehabilitation, preservation, protection, and construction program under paragraph (1) under the heading 'HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM' under the heading 'FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION' under the heading 'DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION' under title VIII of division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act; and
(27) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 6701 for the purpose set forth in § 35.6(h)(1)(i)(C).
Tax revenue means revenue received from a compulsory contribution that is exacted by a government for public purposes excluding refunds and corrections and, for purposes of § 35.8, intergovernmental transfers. Tax revenue does not include payments for a special privilege granted or service rendered, employee or employer assessments and contributions to finance retirement and social insurance trust systems, or special assessments to pay for capital improvements.
Tax revenue
means revenue received from a compulsory contribution that is exacted by a government for public purposes excluding refunds and corrections and, for purposes of § 35.8, intergovernmental transfers. Tax revenue does not include payments for a special privilege granted or service rendered, employee or employer assessments and contributions to finance retirement and social insurance trust systems, or special assessments to pay for capital improvements.
Territory means the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa.
Territory
means the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa.
Title I eligible schools means schools eligible to receive services under section 1113 of Title I, Part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 6313), including schools served under section 1113(b)(1)(C) of that Act.
Title I eligible schools
means schools eligible to receive services under section 1113 of Title I, Part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 6313), including schools served under section 1113(b)(1)(C) of that Act.
Title I project means an activity eligible under section 105(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)).
Title I project
means an activity eligible under section 105(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)).
Tribal enterprise means a business concern:
Tribal enterprise
means a business concern:
(1) That is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments, or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments; or
(2) That is owned in part by one or more Tribal governments, or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments, if all other owners are either United States citizens or small business concerns, as these terms are used and consistent with the definitions in 15 U.S.C. 657a(b)(2)(D).
Tribal government means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published on January 29, 2021, pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131).
Tribal government
means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published on January 29, 2021, pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131).
Unemployment rate means the U-3 unemployment rate provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as part of the Local Area Unemployment Statistics program, measured as total unemployment as a percentage of the civilian labor force.
Unemployment rate
means the U-3 unemployment rate provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as part of the Local Area Unemployment Statistics program, measured as total unemployment as a percentage of the civilian labor force.
Unemployment trust fund means an unemployment trust fund established under section 904 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1104).
Unemployment trust fund
means an unemployment trust fund established under section 904 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1104).
Unit of general local government has the meaning given to that term in section 102(a)(1) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(1)).
Unit of general local government
has the meaning given to that term in section 102(a)(1) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(1)).
[[88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 80589, Nov. 20, 2023]]

§ 35.4   Reservation of authority, reporting.

(a) Reservation of authority. Nothing in this part shall limit the authority of the Secretary to take action to enforce conditions or violations of law, including actions necessary to prevent evasions of this subpart.
Reservation of authority.
Nothing in this part shall limit the authority of the Secretary to take action to enforce conditions or violations of law, including actions necessary to prevent evasions of this subpart.
(b) Extensions or accelerations of timing. The Secretary may extend or accelerate any deadline or compliance date of this part, including reporting requirements that implement this subpart, if the Secretary determines that such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the Secretary will consider the period of time that would be extended or accelerated and how the modified timeline would facilitate compliance with this subpart.
Extensions or accelerations of timing.
The Secretary may extend or accelerate any deadline or compliance date of this part, including reporting requirements that implement this subpart, if the Secretary determines that such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the Secretary will consider the period of time that would be extended or accelerated and how the modified timeline would facilitate compliance with this subpart.
(c) Reporting and requests for other information. During the period of performance, recipients shall provide to the Secretary or her delegate, as applicable, periodic reports providing detailed accounting of the uses of funds, modifications to a State or Territory's tax revenue sources, and such other information as the Secretary or her delegate, as applicable, may require for the administration of this section. In addition to regular reporting requirements, the Secretary may request other additional information as may be necessary or appropriate, including as may be necessary to prevent evasions of the requirements of this subpart. False statements or claims made to the Secretary may result in criminal, civil, or administrative sanctions, including fines, imprisonment, civil damages and penalties, debarment from participating in Federal awards or contracts, and/or any other remedy available by law.
Reporting and requests for other information.
During the period of performance, recipients shall provide to the Secretary or her delegate, as applicable, periodic reports providing detailed accounting of the uses of funds, modifications to a State or Territory's tax revenue sources, and such other information as the Secretary or her delegate, as applicable, may require for the administration of this section. In addition to regular reporting requirements, the Secretary may request other additional information as may be necessary or appropriate, including as may be necessary to prevent evasions of the requirements of this subpart. False statements or claims made to the Secretary may result in criminal, civil, or administrative sanctions, including fines, imprisonment, civil damages and penalties, debarment from participating in Federal awards or contracts, and/or any other remedy available by law.

§ 35.5   Use of funds.

(a) In general. A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (b) through (f) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning March 3, 2021, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2) and 603(c)(2) of the Social Security Act, as applicable. A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (g) through (h) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning December 29, 2022, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2), 602(c)(5)(C), 603(c)(2), and 603(c)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act, as applicable.
In general.
A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (b) through (f) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning March 3, 2021, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2) and 603(c)(2) of the Social Security Act, as applicable. A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (g) through (h) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning December 29, 2022, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2), 602(c)(5)(C), 603(c)(2), and 603(c)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act, as applicable.
(b) Costs incurred. A cost shall be considered to have been incurred for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section if the recipient has incurred an obligation with respect to such cost by December 31, 2024.
Costs incurred.
A cost shall be considered to have been incurred for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section if the recipient has incurred an obligation with respect to such cost by December 31, 2024.
(c) Return of funds. A recipient must return any funds that have not been obligated by December 31, 2024, pursuant to orders placed for property and services or entry into contracts, subawards, and similar transactions that require payment other than funds in the amount reported to Treasury by April 30, 2024, as the estimate of funds that the recipient will expend to comply with a requirement under federal law or regulation or provision of the award terms and conditions to which a recipient becomes subject as a result of receiving or expending funds. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6(b) through (g) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by December 31, 2026. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6(h) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by September 30, 2026. A recipient must return funds in the amount reported to Treasury by April 30, 2024, as referenced above, but not expended by December 31, 2026, other than administrative expenses necessary to close out the award.
Return of funds.
A recipient must return any funds that have not been obligated by December 31, 2024, pursuant to orders placed for property and services or entry into contracts, subawards, and similar transactions that require payment other than funds in the amount reported to Treasury by April 30, 2024, as the estimate of funds that the recipient will expend to comply with a requirement under federal law or regulation or provision of the award terms and conditions to which a recipient becomes subject as a result of receiving or expending funds. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6(b) through (g) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by December 31, 2026. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6(h) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by September 30, 2026. A recipient must return funds in the amount reported to Treasury by April 30, 2024, as referenced above, but not expended by December 31, 2026, other than administrative expenses necessary to close out the award.
[[88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 80589, Nov. 20, 2023]]

§ 35.6   Eligible uses.

(a) In general. Subject to §§ 35.7 and 35.8, a recipient may use funds for one or more of the purposes described in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section.
In general.
Subject to §§ 35.7 and 35.8, a recipient may use funds for one or more of the purposes described in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section.
(b) Responding to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts. A recipient may use funds to respond to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts if the use meets the criteria provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or is enumerated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section; provided that, in the case of a use of funds for a capital expenditure under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section, the use of funds must also meet the criteria provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Treasury may also articulate additional eligible programs, services, or capital expenditures from time to time that satisfy the eligibility criteria of this paragraph (b), which shall be eligible under this paragraph (b).
Responding to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts.
A recipient may use funds to respond to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts if the use meets the criteria provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or is enumerated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section; provided that, in the case of a use of funds for a capital expenditure under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section, the use of funds must also meet the criteria provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Treasury may also articulate additional eligible programs, services, or capital expenditures from time to time that satisfy the eligibility criteria of this paragraph (b), which shall be eligible under this paragraph (b).
(1) Identifying eligible responses to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts.
Identifying eligible responses to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts.
(i) A program, service, or capital expenditure is eligible under this paragraph (b)(1) if a recipient identifies a harm or impact to a beneficiary or class of beneficiaries caused or exacerbated by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts and the program, service, or capital expenditure responds to such harm.
(ii) A program, service, or capital expenditure responds to a harm or impact experienced by an identified beneficiary or class of beneficiaries if it is reasonably designed to benefit the beneficiary or class of beneficiaries that experienced the harm or impact and is related and reasonably proportional to the extent and type of harm or impact experienced.
(2) Identified harms: presumptions of impacted and disproportionately impacted beneficiaries. A recipient may rely on the following presumptions to identify beneficiaries presumptively impacted or disproportionately impacted by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts for the purpose of providing a response under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section:
Identified harms: presumptions of impacted and disproportionately impacted beneficiaries.
A recipient may rely on the following presumptions to identify beneficiaries presumptively impacted or disproportionately impacted by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts for the purpose of providing a response under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section:
(i) Households or populations that experienced unemployment; experienced increased food or housing insecurity; qualify for the Children's Health Insurance Program (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.), Childcare Subsidies through the Child Care and Development Fund Program (42 U.S.C. 9857 et seq. and 42 U.S.C. 618), or Medicaid (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.); if funds are to be used for affordable housing programs, qualify for the National Housing Trust Fund (12 U.S.C. 4568) or the Home Investment Partnerships Program (42 U.S.C. 12721 et seq.); if funds are to be used to address impacts of lost instructional time for students in kindergarten through twelfth grade, any student who did not have access to in-person instruction for a significant period of time; and low- and moderate-income households and populations are presumed to be impacted by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts;
et seq.
), Childcare Subsidies through the Child Care and Development Fund Program (42 U.S.C. 9857
et seq.
and 42 U.S.C. 618), or Medicaid (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
); if funds are to be used for affordable housing programs, qualify for the National Housing Trust Fund (12 U.S.C. 4568) or the Home Investment Partnerships Program (42 U.S.C. 12721
et seq.
); if funds are to be used to address impacts of lost instructional time for students in kindergarten through twelfth grade, any student who did not have access to in-person instruction for a significant period of time; and low- and moderate-income households and populations are presumed to be impacted by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts;
(ii) The general public is presumed to be impacted by the public health emergency for the purposes of providing the uses set forth in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) and (b)(3)(i)(C) of this section; and
(iii) The following households, communities, small businesses, and nonprofit organizations are presumed to be disproportionately impacted by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts:
(A) Households and populations residing in a qualified census tract; households and populations receiving services provided by Tribal governments; households and populations residing in the territories; households and populations receiving services provided by territorial governments; low-income households and populations; households that qualify for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), Free and Reduced Price School Lunch and/or Breakfast programs (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq. and 42 U.S.C. 1773), Medicare Part D Low-income Subsidies (42 U.S.C. 1395w-114), Supplemental Security Income (42 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.), Head Start (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.), Early Head Start (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.), the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (42 U.S.C. 1786), Section 8 Vouchers (42 U.S.C. 1437f), the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (42 U.S.C. 8621 et seq.), Pell Grants (20 U.S.C. 1070a), and, if SLFRF funds are to be used for services to address educational disparities, Title I eligible schools;
et seq.
), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
), Free and Reduced Price School Lunch and/or Breakfast programs (42 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
and 42 U.S.C. 1773), Medicare Part D Low-income Subsidies (42 U.S.C. 1395w-114), Supplemental Security Income (42 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.
), Head Start (42 U.S.C. 9831
et seq.
), Early Head Start (42 U.S.C. 9831
et seq.
), the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (42 U.S.C. 1786), Section 8 Vouchers (42 U.S.C. 1437f), the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (42 U.S.C. 8621
et seq.
), Pell Grants (20 U.S.C. 1070a), and, if SLFRF funds are to be used for services to address educational disparities, Title I eligible schools;
(B) Small businesses operating in a qualified census tract, operated by Tribal governments or on Tribal lands, or operating in the territories; and
(C) Nonprofit organizations operating in a qualified census tract, operated by Tribal governments or on Tribal lands, or operating in the territories.
(3) Enumerated eligible uses: responses presumed reasonably proportional. A recipient may use funds to respond to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts on a beneficiary or class of beneficiaries for one or more of the following purposes unless such use is grossly disproportionate to the harm caused or exacerbated by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts:
Enumerated eligible uses: responses presumed reasonably proportional.
A recipient may use funds to respond to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts on a beneficiary or class of beneficiaries for one or more of the following purposes unless such use is grossly disproportionate to the harm caused or exacerbated by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts:
(i) Responding to the public health impacts of the public health emergency for purposes including:
(A) COVID-19 mitigation and prevention in a manner that is consistent with recommendations and guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, including vaccination programs and incentives; testing programs; contact tracing; isolation and quarantine; mitigation and prevention practices in congregate settings; acquisition and distribution of medical equipment for prevention and treatment of COVID-19, including personal protective equipment; COVID-19 prevention and treatment expenses for public hospitals or health care facilities, including temporary medical facilities; establishing or enhancing public health data systems; installation and improvement of ventilation systems in congregate settings, health facilities, or other public facilities; and assistance to small businesses, nonprofits, or impacted industries to implement mitigation measures;
(B) Medical expenses related to testing and treating COVID-19 that are provided in a manner consistent with recommendations and guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, including emergency medical response expenses, treatment of long-term symptoms or effects of COVID-19, and costs to medical providers or to individuals for testing or treating COVID-19;
(C) Behavioral health care, including prevention, treatment, emergency or first-responder programs, harm reduction, supports for long-term recovery, and behavioral health facilities and equipment; and
(D) Preventing and responding to increased violence resulting from the public health emergency, including community violence intervention programs, or responding to increased gun violence resulting from the public health emergency, including payroll and covered benefits associated with community policing strategies; enforcement efforts to reduce gun violence; and investing in technology and equipment;
(ii) Responding to the negative economic impacts of the public health emergency for purposes including:
(A) Assistance to households and individuals, including:
(1) Assistance for food; emergency housing needs; burials, home repairs, or weatherization; internet access or digital literacy; cash assistance; and assistance accessing public benefits;
(1)
Assistance for food; emergency housing needs; burials, home repairs, or weatherization; internet access or digital literacy; cash assistance; and assistance accessing public benefits;
(2) Paid sick, medical, or family leave programs, or assistance to expand access to health insurance;
(2)
Paid sick, medical, or family leave programs, or assistance to expand access to health insurance;
(3) Childcare, early learning services, home visiting, or assistance for child welfare-involved families or foster youth;
(3)
Childcare, early learning services, home visiting, or assistance for child welfare-involved families or foster youth;
(4) Programs to address the impacts of lost instructional time for students in kindergarten through twelfth grade;
(4)
Programs to address the impacts of lost instructional time for students in kindergarten through twelfth grade;
(5) Development, repair, and operation of affordable housing and services or programs to increase long-term housing security;
(5)
Development, repair, and operation of affordable housing and services or programs to increase long-term housing security;
(6) Financial services that facilitate the delivery of Federal, State, or local benefits for unbanked and underbanked individuals;
(6)
Financial services that facilitate the delivery of Federal, State, or local benefits for unbanked and underbanked individuals;
(7) Benefits for the surviving family members of individuals who have died from COVID-19, including cash assistance to surviving spouses or dependents of individuals who died of COVID-19;
(7)
Benefits for the surviving family members of individuals who have died from COVID-19, including cash assistance to surviving spouses or dependents of individuals who died of COVID-19;
(8) Assistance for individuals who want and are available for work, including those who are unemployed, have looked for work sometime in the past 12 months, who are employed part time but who want and are available for full-time work, or who are employed but seeking a position with greater opportunities for economic advancement;
(8)
Assistance for individuals who want and are available for work, including those who are unemployed, have looked for work sometime in the past 12 months, who are employed part time but who want and are available for full-time work, or who are employed but seeking a position with greater opportunities for economic advancement;
(9) Facilities and equipment related to the provision of services to households provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A)(1) through(8) of this section;
(9)
Facilities and equipment related to the provision of services to households provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A)(
1
) through(
8
) of this section;
(10) The following expenses related to Unemployment Trust Funds:
(10)
The following expenses related to Unemployment Trust Funds:
(i) Contributions to a recipient Unemployment Trust Fund and repayment of principal amounts due on advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1321) up to an amount equal to (a) the difference between the balance in the recipient's Unemployment Trust Fund as of January 27, 2020, and the balance of such account as of May 17, 2021, plus (b) the principal amount outstanding as of May 17, 2021, on any advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act between January 27, 2020, and May 17, 2021; provided that if a recipient repays principal on Title XII advances or makes a contribution to an Unemployment Trust Fund after April 1, 2022, such recipient shall not reduce average weekly benefit amounts or maximum benefit entitlements prior to December 31, 2024; and
(i)
Contributions to a recipient Unemployment Trust Fund and repayment of principal amounts due on advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1321) up to an amount equal to (a) the difference between the balance in the recipient's Unemployment Trust Fund as of January 27, 2020, and the balance of such account as of May 17, 2021, plus (b) the principal amount outstanding as of May 17, 2021, on any advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act between January 27, 2020, and May 17, 2021; provided that if a recipient repays principal on Title XII advances or makes a contribution to an Unemployment Trust Fund after April 1, 2022, such recipient shall not reduce average weekly benefit amounts or maximum benefit entitlements prior to December 31, 2024; and
(ii) Any interest due on such advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1321); and
(ii)
Any interest due on such advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1321); and
(11) A program, service, capital expenditure, or other assistance that is provided to a disproportionately impacted household, population, or community, including:
(11)
A program, service, capital expenditure, or other assistance that is provided to a disproportionately impacted household, population, or community, including:
(i) Services to address health disparities of the disproportionately impacted household, population, or community;
(i)
Services to address health disparities of the disproportionately impacted household, population, or community;
(ii) Housing vouchers and relocation assistance;
(ii)
Housing vouchers and relocation assistance;
(iii) Investments in communities to promote improved health outcomes and public safety such as parks, recreation facilities, and programs that increase access to healthy foods;
(iii)
Investments in communities to promote improved health outcomes and public safety such as parks, recreation facilities, and programs that increase access to healthy foods;
(iv) Capital expenditures and other services to address vacant or abandoned properties;
(iv)
Capital expenditures and other services to address vacant or abandoned properties;
(v) Services to address educational disparities; and
(v)
Services to address educational disparities; and
(vi) Facilities and equipment related to the provision of these services to the disproportionately impacted household, population, or community.
(vi)
Facilities and equipment related to the provision of these services to the disproportionately impacted household, population, or community.
(B) Assistance to small businesses, including:
(1) Programs, services, or capital expenditures that respond to the negative economic impacts of the COVID-19 public health emergency, including loans or grants to mitigate financial hardship such as declines in revenues or impacts of periods of business closure, or providing technical assistance; and
1
) Programs, services, or capital expenditures that respond to the negative economic impacts of the COVID-19 public health emergency, including loans or grants to mitigate financial hardship such as declines in revenues or impacts of periods of business closure, or providing technical assistance; and
(2) A program, service, capital expenditure, or other assistance that responds to disproportionately impacted small businesses, including rehabilitation of commercial properties; storefront and façade improvements; technical assistance, business incubators, and grants for start-ups or expansion costs for small businesses; and programs or services to support micro-businesses;
2
) A program, service, capital expenditure, or other assistance that responds to disproportionately impacted small businesses, including rehabilitation of commercial properties; storefront and façade improvements; technical assistance, business incubators, and grants for start-ups or expansion costs for small businesses; and programs or services to support micro-businesses;
(C) Assistance to nonprofit organizations including programs, services, or capital expenditures, including loans or grants to mitigate financial hardship such as declines in revenues or increased costs, or technical assistance;
(D) Assistance to tourism, travel, hospitality, and other impacted industries for programs, services, or capital expenditures, including support for payroll costs and covered benefits for employees, compensating returning employees, support for operations and maintenance of existing equipment and facilities, and technical assistance; and
(E) Expenses to support public sector capacity and workforce, including:
(1) Payroll and covered benefit expenses for public safety, public health, health care, human services, and similar employees to the extent that the employee's time is spent mitigating or responding to the COVID-19 public health emergency;
(1)
Payroll and covered benefit expenses for public safety, public health, health care, human services, and similar employees to the extent that the employee's time is spent mitigating or responding to the COVID-19 public health emergency;
(2) Payroll, covered benefit, and other costs associated with programs or services to support the public sector workforce and with the recipient:
(2)
Payroll, covered benefit, and other costs associated with programs or services to support the public sector workforce and with the recipient:
(i) Hiring or rehiring staff to fill budgeted full-time equivalent positions that existed on January 27, 2020, but that were unfilled or eliminated as of March 3, 2021; or
(i)
Hiring or rehiring staff to fill budgeted full-time equivalent positions that existed on January 27, 2020, but that were unfilled or eliminated as of March 3, 2021; or
(ii) Increasing the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees by up to the difference between the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees on January 27, 2020, multiplied by 1.075, and the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees on March 3, 2021, provided that funds shall only be used for additional budgeted full-time equivalent employees above the recipient's number of budgeted full-time equivalent employees as of March 3, 2021;
(ii)
Increasing the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees by up to the difference between the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees on January 27, 2020, multiplied by 1.075, and the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees on March 3, 2021, provided that funds shall only be used for additional budgeted full-time equivalent employees above the recipient's number of budgeted full-time equivalent employees as of March 3, 2021;
(3) Costs to improve the design and execution of programs responding to the COVID-19 pandemic and to administer or improve the efficacy of programs addressing the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts; and
(3)
Costs to improve the design and execution of programs responding to the COVID-19 pandemic and to administer or improve the efficacy of programs addressing the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts; and
(4) Costs associated with addressing administrative needs of recipient governments that were caused or exacerbated by the pandemic.
(4)
Costs associated with addressing administrative needs of recipient governments that were caused or exacerbated by the pandemic.
(4) Capital expenditures. A recipient, other than a Tribal government, must prepare a written justification for certain capital expenditures according to Table 1 of paragraph (b) of this section. Such written justification must include the following elements:
Capital expenditures.
A recipient, other than a Tribal government, must prepare a written justification for certain capital expenditures according to Table 1 of paragraph (b) of this section. Such written justification must include the following elements:
(i) Describe the harm or need to be addressed;
(ii) Explain why a capital expenditure is appropriate; and
(iii) Compare the proposed capital expenditure to at least two alternative capital expenditures and demonstrate why the proposed capital expenditure is superior.
Table 1 to Paragraph (b)
b
)
If a project has total expected
capital expenditures of
and the use is enumerated in (b)(3), then
and the use is not enumerated in (b)(3), then
Less than $1 million
No Written Justification required
No Written Justification required.
Greater than or equal to $1 million, but less than $10 million
Written Justification required but recipients are not required to submit as part of regular reporting to Treasury
Written Justification required and recipients must submit as part of regular reporting to Treasury.
$10 million or more
Written Justification required and recipients must submit as part of regular reporting to Treasury
(c) Providing premium pay to eligible workers. A recipient may use funds to provide premium pay to eligible workers of the recipient who perform essential work or to provide grants to eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work, provided that any premium pay or grants provided under this paragraph (c) must respond to eligible workers performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health emergency. A recipient uses premium pay or grants provided under this paragraph (c) to respond to eligible workers performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health emergency if:
Providing premium pay to eligible workers.
A recipient may use funds to provide premium pay to eligible workers of the recipient who perform essential work or to provide grants to eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work, provided that any premium pay or grants provided under this paragraph (c) must respond to eligible workers performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health emergency. A recipient uses premium pay or grants provided under this paragraph (c) to respond to eligible workers performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health emergency if:
(1) The eligible worker's total wages and remuneration, including the premium pay, is less than or equal to 150 percent of the greater of such eligible worker's residing State's or county's average annual wage for all occupations as defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics;
(2) The eligible worker is not exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act overtime provisions (29 U.S.C. 207); or
(3) The recipient has submitted to the Secretary a written justification that explains how providing premium pay to the eligible worker is responsive to the eligible worker performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health emergency (such as a description of the eligible workers' duties, health, or financial risks faced due to COVID-19, and why the recipient determined that the premium pay was responsive despite the worker's higher income).
(d) Providing government services. A recipient may use funds for the provision of government services up to an amount equal to the greater of:
Providing government services.
A recipient may use funds for the provision of government services up to an amount equal to the greater of:
(1) $10,000,000; or
(2) the amount of the reduction in the recipient's general revenue due to the COVID-19 public health emergency, which equals the sum of the reduction in revenue, calculated as of each date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and according to the formula in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section:
(i) A recipient must make a one-time election to calculate the reduction in its general revenue using information as of either:
(A) December 31, 2020, December 31, 2021, December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2023; or
(B) The last day of each of the recipient's fiscal years ending in 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023.
(ii) A reduction in a recipient's general revenue for each date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) equals:
Max {[Base Year Revenue*
(1 +
Growth Adjustment
)^(
n
t
/12)]−Actual General Revenue;
0}
Where:
(A) Base Year Revenue is the recipient's general revenue for the most recent full fiscal year prior to the COVID-19 public health emergency;
(B) Growth Adjustment is equal to the greater of 5.2 percent (or 0.052) and the recipient's average annual revenue growth over the three full fiscal years prior to the COVID-19 public health emergency;
(C) n equals the number of months elapsed from the end of the base year to the calculation date;
(D) Subscript t denotes the specific calculation date; and
(E) Actual General Revenue is a recipient's actual general revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on each calculation date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, except:
(1) For purposes of all calculation dates on or after April 1, 2022, in the case of any change made after January 6, 2022, to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of decreasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must add to actual general revenue the amount of such decrease in tax revenue;
1
) For purposes of all calculation dates on or after April 1, 2022, in the case of any change made after January 6, 2022, to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of decreasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must add to actual general revenue the amount of such decrease in tax revenue;
(2) For purposes of any calculation date on or after April 1, 2022, in the case of any change made after January 6, 2022, to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that increases any tax (by providing for an increase in a rate, the reduction of a rebate, a deduction, or a credit, or otherwise) or accelerates the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of increasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must subtract from actual general revenue the amount of such increase in tax revenue; and
2
) For purposes of any calculation date on or after April 1, 2022, in the case of any change made after January 6, 2022, to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that increases any tax (by providing for an increase in a rate, the reduction of a rebate, a deduction, or a credit, or otherwise) or accelerates the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of increasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must subtract from actual general revenue the amount of such increase in tax revenue; and
(3) If the recipient makes a one-time election to adjust general revenue to reflect tax changes made during the period beginning on January 27, 2020 and ending on January 6, 2022, for purposes of each calculation date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section:
3
) If the recipient makes a one-time election to adjust general revenue to reflect tax changes made during the period beginning on January 27, 2020 and ending on January 6, 2022, for purposes of each calculation date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section:
(i) In the case of any change made during such prior period to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of decreasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must add to actual general revenue the amount of such decrease in tax revenue; and
i
) In the case of any change made during such prior period to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of decreasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must add to actual general revenue the amount of such decrease in tax revenue; and
(ii) In the case of any change made during such prior period to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that increases any tax (by providing for an increase in a rate, the reduction of a rebate, a deduction, or a credit, or otherwise) or accelerates the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of increasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must subtract from actual general revenue the amount of such increase in tax revenue; and
ii
) In the case of any change made during such prior period to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that increases any tax (by providing for an increase in a rate, the reduction of a rebate, a deduction, or a credit, or otherwise) or accelerates the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of increasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must subtract from actual general revenue the amount of such increase in tax revenue; and
(4) With respect to any calculation date during the period beginning on January 6, 2022, and ending on March 31, 2022, if the recipient makes the election in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the recipient must also make the adjustments referenced in paragraph (d)(3) of this section with respect to any such changes in law, regulation, or administrative interpretation during the period beginning on January 6, 2022, and ending on such calculation date.
4
) With respect to any calculation date during the period beginning on January 6, 2022, and ending on March 31, 2022, if the recipient makes the election in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the recipient must also make the adjustments referenced in paragraph (d)(3) of this section with respect to any such changes in law, regulation, or administrative interpretation during the period beginning on January 6, 2022, and ending on such calculation date.
(e) Making necessary investments in water, sewer, and broadband infrastructure. A recipient may use funds to make the following investments in water, sewer, and broadband infrastructure.
Making necessary investments in water, sewer, and broadband infrastructure.
A recipient may use funds to make the following investments in water, sewer, and broadband infrastructure.
(1) Water and sewer investments—(i) Clean Water State Revolving Fund projects. Projects or activities of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of section 603(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(c));
Water and sewer investments
—(i)
Clean Water State Revolving Fund projects.
Projects or activities of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of section 603(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(c));
(ii) Additional stormwater projects. Projects to manage, reduce, treat, or recapture stormwater or subsurface drainage water regardless of whether such projects would improve water quality if such projects would otherwise meet the eligibility requirements of section 603(c)(5) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(c)(5));
Additional stormwater projects.
Projects to manage, reduce, treat, or recapture stormwater or subsurface drainage water regardless of whether such projects would improve water quality if such projects would otherwise meet the eligibility requirements of section 603(c)(5) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(c)(5));
(iii) Drinking Water State Revolving Fund projects. Projects or activities of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) as implemented by the regulations adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under 40 CFR 35.3520, provided that:
Drinking Water State Revolving Fund projects.
Projects or activities of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) as implemented by the regulations adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under 40 CFR 35.3520, provided that:
(A) The recipient is not required to comply with the limitation under 40 CFR 35.3520(c)(2) to acquisitions of land from willing sellers or the prohibition under 40 CFR 35.3520(e)(6) on uses of funds for certain Tribal projects; and
(B) In the case of lead service line replacement projects, the recipient must replace the full length of the service line and may not replace only a partial portion of the service line.
(iv) Additional lead remediation and household water quality testing. Projects or activities to address lead in drinking water or provide household water quality testing that are within the scope of the programs the EPA is authorized to establish under sections 1459A(b)(2), 1459B(b)(1), 1464(d)(2), and 1465 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a(b)(2), 300j-19b(b)(1), 300j-24(d)(2), and 300j-25), provided that:
Additional lead remediation and household water quality testing.
Projects or activities to address lead in drinking water or provide household water quality testing that are within the scope of the programs the EPA is authorized to establish under sections 1459A(b)(2), 1459B(b)(1), 1464(d)(2), and 1465 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a(b)(2), 300j-19b(b)(1), 300j-24(d)(2), and 300j-25), provided that:
(A) In the case of lead service line replacement projects, the recipient must replace the full length of the service line and may not replace only a partial portion of the service line; and
(B) In the case of projects within the scope of the program the EPA is authorized to establish under section 1459B(b)(1) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, the recipient may determine the income eligibility of homeowners served by lead service line replacement projects in its discretion.
(v) Drinking water projects to support increased population. Projects of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of 40 CFR 35.3520 other than the requirement of 40 CFR 35.3520(b)(1) to address present or prevent future violations of health-based drinking water standards, if the following conditions are met:
Drinking water projects to support increased population.
Projects of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of 40 CFR 35.3520 other than the requirement of 40 CFR 35.3520(b)(1) to address present or prevent future violations of health-based drinking water standards, if the following conditions are met:
(A) The project is needed to support increased population, with need assessed as of the time the project is undertaken;
(B) The project is designed to support no more than a reasonable level of projected increased need, whether due to population growth or otherwise;
(C) The project is a cost-effective means for achieving the desired level of service; and
(D) The project is projected to continue to provide an adequate level of drinking water over its estimated useful life.
(vi) Dams and reservoirs. Rehabilitation of dams and reservoirs if the following conditions are met:
Dams and reservoirs.
Rehabilitation of dams and reservoirs if the following conditions are met:
(A) The project meets the requirements of 40 CFR 35.3520 other than the following requirements:
(1) The prohibition on the rehabilitation of dams and reservoirs in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of 40 CFR 35.3520; and
(1)
The prohibition on the rehabilitation of dams and reservoirs in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of 40 CFR 35.3520; and
(2) The requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of 40 CFR 35.3520 that the project is needed to address present or prevent future violations of health-based drinking water standards, provided that if the dam or reservoir project does not meet this requirement, the project must be needed to support increased population, with need assessed as of the time the project is undertaken, and the project must be projected to continue to provide an adequate level of drinking water over its estimated useful life;
(2)
The requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of 40 CFR 35.3520 that the project is needed to address present or prevent future violations of health-based drinking water standards, provided that if the dam or reservoir project does not meet this requirement, the project must be needed to support increased population, with need assessed as of the time the project is undertaken, and the project must be projected to continue to provide an adequate level of drinking water over its estimated useful life;
(B) The primary purpose of the dam or reservoir is for drinking water supply;
(C) The project is needed for the provision of drinking water supply, with need assessed as of the time the project is initiated;
(D) The project is designed to support no more than a reasonable level of projected increased need, whether due to population growth or otherwise; and
(E) The project is a cost-effective means for achieving the desired level of service.
(vii) Private wells. Rehabilitation of private wells, testing initiatives to identify contaminants in private wells, and treatment activities and remediation projects that address contamination in private wells, if the project meets the requirements of 40 CFR 35.3520 other than the limitation to certain eligible systems under paragraph (a) of 40 CFR 35.3520.
Private wells.
Rehabilitation of private wells, testing initiatives to identify contaminants in private wells, and treatment activities and remediation projects that address contamination in private wells, if the project meets the requirements of 40 CFR 35.3520 other than the limitation to certain eligible systems under paragraph (a) of 40 CFR 35.3520.
(2) Broadband investments—(i) General. Broadband infrastructure if the following conditions are met:
Broadband investments
—(i)
General.
Broadband infrastructure if the following conditions are met:
(A) The broadband infrastructure is designed to provide service to households and businesses with an identified need, as determined by the recipient, for such infrastructure;
(B) The broadband infrastructure is designed to, upon completion:
(1) Reliably meet or exceed symmetrical 100 Mbps download speed and upload speeds; or
1
) Reliably meet or exceed symmetrical 100 Mbps download speed and upload speeds; or
(2) In cases where it is not practicable, because of the excessive cost of the project or geography or topography of the area to be served by the project, to provide service reliably meeting or exceeding symmetrical 100 Mbps download speed and upload speeds:
2
) In cases where it is not practicable, because of the excessive cost of the project or geography or topography of the area to be served by the project, to provide service reliably meeting or exceeding symmetrical 100 Mbps download speed and upload speeds:
(i) Reliably meet or exceed 100 Mbps download speed and between at least 20 Mbps and 100 Mbps upload speed; and
(i)
Reliably meet or exceed 100 Mbps download speed and between at least 20 Mbps and 100 Mbps upload speed; and
(ii) Be scalable to a minimum of 100 Mbps download speed and 100 Mbps upload speed; and
(ii)
Be scalable to a minimum of 100 Mbps download speed and 100 Mbps upload speed; and
(C) The service provider for a completed broadband infrastructure investment project that provides service to households is required, for as long as the SLFRF-funded broadband infrastructure is in use, by the recipient to:
(1) Participate in the Federal Communications Commission's Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) through the lifetime of the ACP; or
1
) Participate in the Federal Communications Commission's Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) through the lifetime of the ACP; or
(2) Otherwise provide access to a broad-based affordability program to low-income consumers in the proposed service area of the broadband infrastructure that provides benefits to households commensurate with those provided under the ACP through the lifetime of the ACP.
2
) Otherwise provide access to a broad-based affordability program to low-income consumers in the proposed service area of the broadband infrastructure that provides benefits to households commensurate with those provided under the ACP through the lifetime of the ACP.
(ii) Cybersecurity infrastructure investments. Cybersecurity infrastructure investments that are designed to improve the reliability and resiliency of new and existing broadband infrastructure. Such investments may include the addition or modernization of network security hardware and software tools designed to strengthen cybersecurity for the end-users of these networks.
Cybersecurity infrastructure investments.
Cybersecurity infrastructure investments that are designed to improve the reliability and resiliency of new and existing broadband infrastructure. Such investments may include the addition or modernization of network security hardware and software tools designed to strengthen cybersecurity for the end-users of these networks.
(f) Meeting the non-Federal matching requirements for Bureau of Reclamation projects. A recipient may use funds to meet the non-Federal matching requirements of any authorized Bureau of Reclamation project.
Meeting the non-Federal matching requirements for Bureau of Reclamation projects.
A recipient may use funds to meet the non-Federal matching requirements of any authorized Bureau of Reclamation project.
(g) Natural Disaster Emergency Relief. Subject to paragraph (g)(3) of this section, a recipient may use funds to provide emergency relief from the physical impacts or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster, including the forms of emergency relief identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, if the use meets the criteria provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
Natural Disaster Emergency Relief.
Subject to paragraph (g)(3) of this section, a recipient may use funds to provide emergency relief from the physical impacts or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster, including the forms of emergency relief identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, if the use meets the criteria provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(1) Identifying emergency relief from the physical or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster. A recipient provides emergency relief from the physical impacts or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster when the recipient:
Identifying emergency relief from the physical or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster.
A recipient provides emergency relief from the physical impacts or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster when the recipient:
(i) Identifies either:
(A) a natural disaster that has occurred or is expected to occur imminently and that has been the subject of an emergency declaration or designation applicable to the recipient's geography and jurisdiction in the form of:
(1) an emergency declaration pursuant to the Stafford Act;
(1)
an emergency declaration pursuant to the Stafford Act;
(2) an emergency declaration by the Governor of a state pursuant to state law;
(2)
an emergency declaration by the Governor of a state pursuant to state law;
(3) an emergency declaration made by a Tribal government; or
(3)
an emergency declaration made by a Tribal government; or
(4) a designation as a natural disaster by the chief executive (or equivalent) of the recipient, provided that the chief executive (or equivalent) documents that the event meets the definition of natural disaster; or
(4)
a designation as a natural disaster by the chief executive (or equivalent) of the recipient, provided that the chief executive (or equivalent) documents that the event meets the definition of natural disaster; or
(B) a natural disaster that is threatened to occur in the future, provided that the recipient documents evidence of historical patterns or predictions of natural disasters that would reasonably demonstrate the likelihood of the future occurrence of a natural disaster in the recipient's jurisdiction; and
(ii) Provides emergency relief that responds to and is related and reasonably proportional to:
(A) the physical or negative economic impacts of the natural disaster identified in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section, or
(B) the potential physical or negative economic impacts of the natural disaster identified in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(2) Enumerated eligible uses. A recipient may use funds to provide emergency relief from
Enumerated eligible uses.
A recipient may use funds to provide emergency relief from
(i) the physical or negative economic impacts of natural disasters identified under paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section by engaging in one of the following activities, provided that the emergency relief is related and reasonably proportional to the physical or negative economic impacts of the natural disaster identified:
(A) Temporary emergency housing, food assistance, and financial assistance for lost wages;
(B) Emergency protective measures, including assistance for emergency access, medical care and transport, emergency operations center related costs, and other activities traditionally undertaken as part of emergency response;
(C) Debris removal activities, including the clearance, removal, and disposal of vegetative debris, construction and demolition debris, sand, mud, silt, gravel, rocks, boulders, white goods, and vehicle and vessel wreckage;
(D) Restoration of public infrastructure damaged by a natural disaster, including roads, bridges, and utilities;
(E) Increased operational costs, including payroll costs and costs for government facilities and government services;
(F) Cash assistance for uninsured or underinsured expenses, and cash assistance serving low-income households; or
(G) Home repairs for uninhabitable primary residences; or
(ii) the potential physical or negative economic impacts of natural disasters identified under paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B) of this section by using funds for mitigation activities, provided that the emergency relief is related and reasonably proportional to the potential physical or negative economic impacts of the natural disaster identified, and provided further that if funds are used for capital expenditures under this paragraph, a recipient, other than a Tribal government, must prepare a written justification for activities under this paragraph (g)(2)(ii) with total capital expenditures of $1 million or greater. Such written justification must include the following elements:
(A) Describe the emergency relief provided by the mitigation activity and why it is needed to lessen or avert the potential impacts of the natural disaster that is threatened to occur in the future;
(B) Explain why the capital expenditure is appropriate to address the need for emergency relief; and
(C) Compare the proposed capital expenditure to at least two alternative capital expenditures and demonstrate why the proposed capital expenditure is superior.
(3) Duplication of benefits. (A) A recipient may not provide financial assistance under this paragraph (g) to a person, business concern, or other entity with respect to disaster losses for which such beneficiary will receive financial assistance under any other program or from insurance or any other source.
Duplication of benefits.
(A) A recipient may not provide financial assistance under this paragraph (g) to a person, business concern, or other entity with respect to disaster losses for which such beneficiary will receive financial assistance under any other program or from insurance or any other source.
(B) A recipient may provide assistance with respect to disaster losses to a person, business concern, or other entity that is or may be entitled to receive assistance for those losses from another source, if such person, business concern, or other entity has not received the other benefits by the time of application for assistance and the person, business concern, or other entity agrees to repay any duplicative assistance to the recipient. A recipient providing assistance with respect to disaster losses shall coordinate with the relevant Regional Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state disaster-assistance administrator. Recipients shall notify subrecipients and contractors that, when providing assistance with respect to disaster losses, those entities are responsible for ensuring that beneficiaries disclose any other assistance received for the same disaster losses prior to receiving assistance under this paragraph (g).
(C) Funds shall be used last in the delivery sequence unless the recipient, in consultation with the appropriate Regional Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency or state disaster-assistance administrator, determines that another sequence is appropriate.
(h) Certain infrastructure projects. A recipient may use funds for Surface Transportation projects as set forth in paragraph (h)(1) of this section and for Title I projects as set forth in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, subject to the requirements set forth in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
Certain infrastructure projects.
A recipient may use funds for Surface Transportation projects as set forth in paragraph (h)(1) of this section and for Title I projects as set forth in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, subject to the requirements set forth in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(1) Surface Transportation projects. A recipient may use funds for Surface Transportation projects in the manner set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.
Surface Transportation projects.
A recipient may use funds for Surface Transportation projects in the manner set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i)(A) A recipient may use funds to expand the scope of, to cover additional costs associated with, or to otherwise supplement funding for a project receiving funding from the Department of Transportation at the time that the funds are obligated and expended for the project.
(B) A recipient may use funds for a Surface Transportation project that is not funded by the Department of Transportation at the time the funds are obligated and expended.
(C) A recipient may use funds to satisfy non-Federal share requirements for a project eligible under the provisions identified in paragraphs (1), (18), (21), and (27) of the definition of “Surface Transportation project” in § 35.3 or to repay a loan provided under the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program under 23 U.S.C. chapter 6.
(ii) The following limitations and requirements apply to funds used for Surface Transportation projects under paragraphs (h)(1)(i)(A) and (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(A) Funds used for Surface Transportation projects eligible under the provisions set forth in paragraphs (20) through (24) of the definition of “Surface Transportation projects” in § 35.3 shall not be used for operating expenses of such a project.
(B) Except as otherwise determined by the Secretary or the head of the Federal agency to which the Secretary has delegated authority, the requirements of titles 23, 40, and 49 of the U.S. Code, and the associated implementing regulations, apply to Surface Transportation projects, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Project eligibility requirements;
1
) Project eligibility requirements;
(2) Project approval requirements, provided that such requirements shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section that meet the following criteria:
2
) Project approval requirements, provided that such requirements shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section that meet the following criteria:
(i) The project qualifies as an “eligible project” under the program described in paragraph (17) of the definition of Surface Transportation project set forth in § 35.3;
i
) The project qualifies as an “eligible project” under the program described in paragraph (17) of the definition of Surface Transportation project set forth in § 35.3;
(ii) The recipient does not use more than $10 million in funds for the project; and
ii
) The recipient does not use more than $10 million in funds for the project; and
(iii) The entire project scope, including for avoidance of doubt any portion of the project funded through other sources, is limited to the actions or activities listed under 23 CFR 771.116(c)(1) through(22), 23 CFR 771.117(c)(1) through(30), and 23 CFR 771.118(c)(1) through(16), provided that the actions or activities do not involve unusual circumstances, as described in 23 CFR 771.116(b), 23 CFR 771.117(b), and 23 CFR 771.118(b).
iii
) The entire project scope, including for avoidance of doubt any portion of the project funded through other sources, is limited to the actions or activities listed under 23 CFR 771.116(c)(1) through(22), 23 CFR 771.117(c)(1) through(30), and 23 CFR 771.118(c)(1) through(16), provided that the actions or activities do not involve unusual circumstances, as described in 23 CFR 771.116(b), 23 CFR 771.117(b), and 23 CFR 771.118(b).
(3) Wage and employee protection requirements, including the requirements set forth at 23 U.S.C. 113 and 49 U.S.C. 5333(a) and (b);
3
) Wage and employee protection requirements, including the requirements set forth at 23 U.S.C. 113 and 49 U.S.C. 5333(a) and (b);
(4) Domestic preference procurement requirements, including the requirements set forth at 23 U.S.C. 313, 49 U.S.C. 5323(j), 49 CFR part 661, and 23 CFR 635.410, provided that such requirements shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section that meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(B)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section;
4
) Domestic preference procurement requirements, including the requirements set forth at 23 U.S.C. 313, 49 U.S.C. 5323(j), 49 CFR part 661, and 23 CFR 635.410, provided that such requirements shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section that meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iii
) of this section;
(5) Project design, planning, construction, operation, maintenance, vehicle weight limit, and toll requirements, provided that the requirement to include Surface Transportation projects in a state transportation improvement program or transportation improvement program shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section except in circumstances when the project is regionally significant and requires action by an office of the Department of Transportation pursuant to 23 CFR 450.218.
5
) Project design, planning, construction, operation, maintenance, vehicle weight limit, and toll requirements, provided that the requirement to include Surface Transportation projects in a state transportation improvement program or transportation improvement program shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section except in circumstances when the project is regionally significant and requires action by an office of the Department of Transportation pursuant to 23 CFR 450.218.
(C) Except as otherwise determined by the Secretary or the head of the Federal agency to which the Secretary has delegated authority, the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and the associated implementing regulations, apply to Surface Transportation projects.
et seq.
), and the associated implementing regulations, apply to Surface Transportation projects.
(D) When a State uses funds for a Surface Transportation project eligible under title 23 of the U.S. Code or that otherwise would be subject to the requirements of title 23, the project must either:
(1) Demonstrate progress in achieving a state of good repair as required by the State's asset management plan under 23 U.S.C. 119(e), or
(1)
Demonstrate progress in achieving a state of good repair as required by the State's asset management plan under 23 U.S.C. 119(e), or
(2) Support the achievement of one or more performance targets of the State established under 23 U.S.C. 150.
(2)
Support the achievement of one or more performance targets of the State established under 23 U.S.C. 150.
(2) Title I projects. A recipient may use funds for Title I projects, subject to the following limitations and requirements:
Title I projects.
A recipient may use funds for Title I projects, subject to the following limitations and requirements:
(i) Except as otherwise determined by the Secretary or the head of the Federal agency to which the Secretary has delegated authority, the requirements of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), and the associated implementing regulations, apply to Title I projects, including:
et seq.
), and the associated implementing regulations, apply to Title I projects, including:
(A) At least 70 percent of funds used for such projects, in the aggregate, must be used for projects that principally benefit low- and moderate-income persons, in accordance with the definitions and requirements set forth at 24 CFR 570.3, 24 CFR 570.200(a)(3), and 24 CFR 570.208(a) for recipients that are not Tribal governments, and at 24 CFR 1003.4 and 1003.208 for Tribal government recipients; provided, however, that Tribal governments may demonstrate that beneficiaries of Title I assistance are “low and moderate income beneficiaries,” as defined at 24 CFR 1003.4, based on an attestation by the Tribal government that these beneficiaries are receiving or are eligible to receive services administered by the Tribal government on the basis of an individual's income.
(B) In the case of recipients that are not Tribal governments, funds used for projects must satisfy at least one of the national objectives as set forth in 24 CFR 570.208.
(C) Not more than 15 percent of funds used for such projects, in the aggregate, may be used for public services activities and projects eligible under 42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(8).
(D) Not more than 20 percent of funds used for such projects, in the aggregate, may be used for planning and administrative costs, as described at 24 CFR 570.200(g), 570.205, and 570.206 with respect to recipients that are not Tribal governments, and as described at 24 CFR 1003.205 and 1003.206 with respect to recipients that are Tribal governments.
(E) In the case of recipients that are not Tribal governments, funds used for such projects must satisfy the requirements set forth at 42 U.S.C. 5310 and 24 CFR 570.603.
(F) Prior to commencing a Title I project, a recipient must comply with the environmental protection measures set forth at 42 U.S.C. 5304(g) and the implementing regulations set forth at 24 CFR 570.604, 24 CFR 1003.605, and 24 CFR part 58, provided that the certification contemplated by 42 U.S.C. 5304(g) shall be submitted to the Secretary and not the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(ii) To the extent a Title I project relates to broadband infrastructure, the requirements of section 60102 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act shall apply.
(3) Requirements applicable to Surface Transportation projects and Title I projects. (i) The total amount of funds that a recipient may use for costs incurred for projects set forth in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section, taken together, shall not exceed the greater of $10,000,000 and 30 percent of the recipient's total award received pursuant to payment or transfer of funds made under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act.
Requirements applicable to Surface Transportation projects and Title I projects.
(i) The total amount of funds that a recipient may use for costs incurred for projects set forth in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section, taken together, shall not exceed the greater of $10,000,000 and 30 percent of the recipient's total award received pursuant to payment or transfer of funds made under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act.
(ii) Funds used for the projects set forth in paragraph (h) of this section must supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, territorial, Tribal, and local government funds (as applicable) that
(A) in the case of non-Federal funds, have been obligated for activities or projects that are eligible as part of any Surface Transportation project or Title I project, as applicable, or
(B) in the case of Federal funds, a Federal agency has committed to a particular project pursuant to an award agreement or otherwise.

§ 35.7   Pensions.

A recipient (other than a Tribal government) may not use funds for deposit into any pension fund.

§ 35.8   Tax.

(a) Restriction. A State or Territory shall not use funds to either directly or indirectly offset a reduction in the net tax revenue of the State or Territory resulting from a covered change during the covered period.
Restriction.
A State or Territory shall not use funds to either directly or indirectly offset a reduction in the net tax revenue of the State or Territory resulting from a covered change during the covered period.
(b) Violation. Treasury will consider a State or Territory to have used funds to offset a reduction in net tax revenue if, during a reporting year:
Violation.
Treasury will consider a State or Territory to have used funds to offset a reduction in net tax revenue if, during a reporting year:
(1) Covered change. The State or Territory has made a covered change that, either based on a reasonable statistical methodology to isolate the impact of the covered change in actual revenue or based on projections that use reasonable assumptions and do not incorporate the effects of macroeconomic growth to reduce or increase the projected impact of the covered change, the State or Territory assesses has had or predicts to have the effect of reducing tax revenue relative to current law;
Covered change.
The State or Territory has made a covered change that, either based on a reasonable statistical methodology to isolate the impact of the covered change in actual revenue or based on projections that use reasonable assumptions and do not incorporate the effects of macroeconomic growth to reduce or increase the projected impact of the covered change, the State or Territory assesses has had or predicts to have the effect of reducing tax revenue relative to current law;
(2) Exceeds the de minimis threshold. The aggregate amount of the measured or predicted reductions in tax revenue caused by covered changes identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in the aggregate, exceeds 1 percent of the State's or Territory's baseline;
Exceeds the de minimis threshold.
The aggregate amount of the measured or predicted reductions in tax revenue caused by covered changes identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in the aggregate, exceeds 1 percent of the State's or Territory's baseline;
(3) Reduction in net tax revenue. The State or Territory reports a reduction in net tax revenue, measured as the difference between actual tax revenue and the State's or Territory's baseline, each measured as of the end of the reporting year; and
Reduction in net tax revenue.
The State or Territory reports a reduction in net tax revenue, measured as the difference between actual tax revenue and the State's or Territory's baseline, each measured as of the end of the reporting year; and
(4) Consideration of other changes. The aggregate amount of measured or predicted reductions in tax revenue caused by covered changes is greater than the sum of the following, in each case, as calculated for the reporting year:
Consideration of other changes.
The aggregate amount of measured or predicted reductions in tax revenue caused by covered changes is greater than the sum of the following, in each case, as calculated for the reporting year:
(i) The aggregate amount of the expected increases in tax revenue caused by one or more covered changes that, either based on a reasonable statistical methodology to isolate the impact of the covered change in actual revenue or based on projections that use reasonable assumptions and do not incorporate the effects of macroeconomic growth to reduce or increase the projected impact of the covered change, the State or Territory assesses has had or predicts to have the effect of increasing tax revenue; and
(ii) Reductions in spending, up to the amount of the State's or Territory's net reduction in total spending, that are in:
(A) Departments, agencies, or authorities in which the State or Territory is not using funds; and
(B) Departments, agencies, or authorities in which the State or Territory is using funds, in an amount equal to the value of the spending cuts in those departments, agencies, or authorities, minus funds used.
(c) Amount and revenue reduction cap. If a State or Territory is considered to be in violation pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the amount used in violation of paragraph (a) of this section is equal to the lesser of:
Amount and revenue reduction cap.
If a State or Territory is considered to be in violation pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the amount used in violation of paragraph (a) of this section is equal to the lesser of:
(1) The reduction in net tax revenue of the State or Territory for the reporting year, measured as the difference between the State's or Territory's baseline and its actual tax revenue, each measured as of the end of the reporting year; and,
(2) The aggregate amount of the reductions in tax revenues caused by covered changes identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, minus the sum of the amounts in identified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

§ 35.9   Compliance with applicable laws.

A recipient must comply with all other applicable Federal statutes, regulations, and executive orders, and a recipient shall provide for compliance with the American Rescue Plan Act, this subpart, and any interpretive guidance by other parties in any agreements it enters into with other parties relating to these funds.

§ 35.10   Recoupment.

(a) Identification of violations—(1) In general. Any amount used in violation of § 35.5, § 35.6, or § 35.7 may be identified at any time prior to December 31, 2026.
Identification of violations
—(1)
In general.
Any amount used in violation of § 35.5, § 35.6, or § 35.7 may be identified at any time prior to December 31, 2026.
(2) Annual reporting of amounts of violations. On an annual basis, a recipient that is a State or territory must calculate and report any amounts used in violation of § 35.8.
Annual reporting of amounts of violations.
On an annual basis, a recipient that is a State or territory must calculate and report any amounts used in violation of § 35.8.
(b) Calculation of amounts subject to recoupment—(1) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Secretary will calculate any amounts subject to recoupment resulting from a violation of § 35.5, § 35.6 or § 35.7 as the amounts used in violation of such restrictions.
Calculation of amounts subject to recoupment
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Secretary will calculate any amounts subject to recoupment resulting from a violation of § 35.5, § 35.6 or § 35.7 as the amounts used in violation of such restrictions.
(2) Violations of § 35.8. The Secretary will calculate any amounts subject to recoupment resulting from a violation of § 35.8, equal to the lesser of:
Violations of § 35.8.
The Secretary will calculate any amounts subject to recoupment resulting from a violation of § 35.8, equal to the lesser of:
(i) The amount set forth in § 35.8(c); and,
(ii) The amount of funds received by such recipient.
(c) Initial notice. If the Secretary calculates an amount subject to recoupment under paragraph (b) of this section, Treasury will provide the recipient an initial written notice of the amount subject to recoupment along with an explanation of such amounts.
Initial notice.
If the Secretary calculates an amount subject to recoupment under paragraph (b) of this section, Treasury will provide the recipient an initial written notice of the amount subject to recoupment along with an explanation of such amounts.
(d) Request for reconsideration. Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, within 60 calendar days of receipt of an initial notice of recoupment provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a recipient may submit a written request to the Secretary requesting reconsideration of any amounts subject to recoupment under paragraph (b) of this section. To request reconsideration of any amounts subject to recoupment, a recipient must submit to the Secretary a written request that includes:
Request for reconsideration.
Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, within 60 calendar days of receipt of an initial notice of recoupment provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a recipient may submit a written request to the Secretary requesting reconsideration of any amounts subject to recoupment under paragraph (b) of this section. To request reconsideration of any amounts subject to recoupment, a recipient must submit to the Secretary a written request that includes:
(1) An explanation of why the recipient believes all or some of the amount should not be subject to recoupment; and
(2) A discussion of supporting reasons, along with any additional information.
(e) Final amount subject to recoupment. Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, within 60 calendar days of receipt of the recipient's request for reconsideration provided pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section or the expiration of the period for requesting reconsideration provided under paragraph (d) of this section, the recipient will be notified of the Secretary's decision to affirm, withdraw, or modify the notice of recoupment. Such notification will include an explanation of the decision, including responses to the recipient's supporting reasons and consideration of additional information provided. A recipient must invoke and exhaust the procedures available under this subpart prior to seeking judicial review of a decision under § 35.10.
Final amount subject to recoupment.
Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, within 60 calendar days of receipt of the recipient's request for reconsideration provided pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section or the expiration of the period for requesting reconsideration provided under paragraph (d) of this section, the recipient will be notified of the Secretary's decision to affirm, withdraw, or modify the notice of recoupment. Such notification will include an explanation of the decision, including responses to the recipient's supporting reasons and consideration of additional information provided. A recipient must invoke and exhaust the procedures available under this subpart prior to seeking judicial review of a decision under § 35.10.
(f) Repayment of funds. Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, a recipient shall repay to the Secretary any amounts subject to recoupment in accordance with instructions provided by the Secretary:
Repayment of funds.
Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, a recipient shall repay to the Secretary any amounts subject to recoupment in accordance with instructions provided by the Secretary:
(1) Within 120 calendar days of receipt of the notice of recoupment provided under paragraph (c) of this section, in the case of a recipient that does not submit a request for reconsideration in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section; or
(2) Within 120 calendar days of receipt of the Secretary's decision under paragraph (e) of this section, in the case of a recipient that submits a request for reconsideration in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
(g) Other remedial actions. Prior to seeking recoupment or taking other appropriate action pursuant to paragraphs (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section, the Secretary may notify the recipient of potential violations and provide the recipient an opportunity for informal consultation and remediation.
Other remedial actions.
Prior to seeking recoupment or taking other appropriate action pursuant to paragraphs (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section, the Secretary may notify the recipient of potential violations and provide the recipient an opportunity for informal consultation and remediation.

§ 35.11   Payments to States.

(a) In general. With respect to any State or Territory that has an unemployment rate as of the date that it submits an initial certification for payment of funds pursuant to section 602(d)(1) of the Social Security Act that is less than two percentage points above its unemployment rate in February 2020, the Secretary will withhold 50 percent of the amount of funds allocated under section 602(b) of the Social Security Act to such State or territory until at least May 10, 2022 and not more than twelve months from the date such initial certification is provided to the Secretary.
In general.
With respect to any State or Territory that has an unemployment rate as of the date that it submits an initial certification for payment of funds pursuant to section 602(d)(1) of the Social Security Act that is less than two percentage points above its unemployment rate in February 2020, the Secretary will withhold 50 percent of the amount of funds allocated under section 602(b) of the Social Security Act to such State or territory until at least May 10, 2022 and not more than twelve months from the date such initial certification is provided to the Secretary.
(b) Payment of withheld amount. In order to receive the amount withheld under paragraph (a) of this section, the State or Territory must submit to the Secretary the following information:
Payment of withheld amount.
In order to receive the amount withheld under paragraph (a) of this section, the State or Territory must submit to the Secretary the following information:
(1) A certification, in the form provided by the Secretary, that such State or Territory requires the payment to carry out the activities specified in section 602(c) of the Social Security Act and will use the payment in compliance with section 602(c) of the Social Security Act; and
(2) Any reports required to be filed by that date pursuant to this part that have not yet been filed.

§ 35.12   Distributions to nonentitlement units of local government and units of general local government.

(a) Nonentitlement units of local government. Each State or Territory that receives a payment from the Secretary pursuant to section 603(b)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act shall distribute the amount of the payment to nonentitlement units of local government in such State or Territory in accordance with the requirements set forth in section 603(b)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act and without offsetting any debt owed by such nonentitlement units of local governments against such payments.
Nonentitlement units of local government.
Each State or Territory that receives a payment from the Secretary pursuant to section 603(b)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act shall distribute the amount of the payment to nonentitlement units of local government in such State or Territory in accordance with the requirements set forth in section 603(b)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act and without offsetting any debt owed by such nonentitlement units of local governments against such payments.
(b) Budget cap. A State or Territory may not make a payment to a nonentitlement unit of local government pursuant to section 603(b)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act and paragraph (a) of this section in excess of the amount equal to 75 percent of the most recent budget for the nonentitlement unit of local government as of January 27, 2020. For purposes of this section 35.12, a nonentitlement unit of local government's most recent budget shall mean the nonentitlement unit of local government's total annual budget, including both operating and capital expenditure budgets, in effect as of January 27, 2020. A State or Territory shall permit a nonentitlement unit of local government without a formal budget as of January 27, 2020, to provide a certification from an authorized officer of the nonentitlement unit of local government of its most recent annual expenditures as of January 27, 2020, and a State or Territory may rely on such certification for purposes of complying with this section 35.12.
Budget cap.
A State or Territory may not make a payment to a nonentitlement unit of local government pursuant to section 603(b)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act and paragraph (a) of this section in excess of the amount equal to 75 percent of the most recent budget for the nonentitlement unit of local government as of January 27, 2020. For purposes of this section 35.12, a nonentitlement unit of local government's most recent budget shall mean the nonentitlement unit of local government's total annual budget, including both operating and capital expenditure budgets, in effect as of January 27, 2020. A State or Territory shall permit a nonentitlement unit of local government without a formal budget as of January 27, 2020, to provide a certification from an authorized officer of the nonentitlement unit of local government of its most recent annual expenditures as of January 27, 2020, and a State or Territory may rely on such certification for purposes of complying with this section 35.12.
(c) Units of general local government. Each State or Territory that receives a payment from the Secretary pursuant to section 603(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Social Security Act, in the case of an amount to be paid to a county that is not a unit of general local government, shall distribute the amount of the payment to units of general local government within such county in accordance with the requirements set forth in section 603(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Social Security Act and without offsetting any debt owed by such units of general local government against such payments.
Units of general local government.
Each State or Territory that receives a payment from the Secretary pursuant to section 603(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Social Security Act, in the case of an amount to be paid to a county that is not a unit of general local government, shall distribute the amount of the payment to units of general local government within such county in accordance with the requirements set forth in section 603(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Social Security Act and without offsetting any debt owed by such units of general local government against such payments.
(d) Additional conditions. A State or Territory may not place additional conditions or requirements on distributions to nonentitlement units of local government or units of general local government beyond those required by section 603 of the Social Security Act or this subpart A.
Additional conditions.
A State or Territory may not place additional conditions or requirements on distributions to nonentitlement units of local government or units of general local government beyond those required by section 603 of the Social Security Act or this subpart A.

Subpart B—Compensation and Capital Distributions


§ 35.20   Purpose, applicability, and general provisions.

(a) Purpose. Pursuant Section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (Act), as added by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Pub. L. 116-260), this subpart establishes restrictions on executive compensation, dividend payments, and share buybacks for recipients of capital investments under the Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program (ECIP or Program), as well as additional criteria for participation in the Program that the Secretary has determined are appropriate in furtherance of the Program goals.
Purpose.
Pursuant Section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (Act), as added by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Pub. L. 116-260), this subpart establishes restrictions on executive compensation, dividend payments, and share buybacks for recipients of capital investments under the Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program (ECIP or Program), as well as additional criteria for participation in the Program that the Secretary has determined are appropriate in furtherance of the Program goals.
(b) Applicability. This subpart applies on a consolidated basis to any insured depository institution, bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or federally insured credit union that issues preferred stock or a subordinated debt instrument to the Department of the Treasury under the Program (an ECIP recipient, as defined in § 35.21 of this subpart). An ECIP recipient must comply with the requirements of this subpart during the ECIP period.
Applicability.
This subpart applies on a consolidated basis to any insured depository institution, bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or federally insured credit union that issues preferred stock or a subordinated debt instrument to the Department of the Treasury under the Program (an ECIP recipient, as defined in § 35.21 of this subpart). An ECIP recipient must comply with the requirements of this subpart during the ECIP period.
(c) Limitation of authority. Nothing in this subpart shall be interpreted to limit the authority of the appropriate Federal banking agency to take action under other provisions of law, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient capital levels, or violations of law or regulation, under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 8 of the Bank Holding Company Act, or section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act, or the Federal Credit Union Act, as may be applicable.
Limitation of authority.
Nothing in this subpart shall be interpreted to limit the authority of the appropriate Federal banking agency to take action under other provisions of law, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient capital levels, or violations of law or regulation, under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 8 of the Bank Holding Company Act, or section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act, or the Federal Credit Union Act, as may be applicable.

§ 35.21   Definitions.

Except as modified in this regulation or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in this regulation have the same meaning as set forth in the relevant statutes. For purposes of this subpart:
Act means the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.).
Act
means the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
).
Appropriate Federal banking agency has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 1813 and also includes the NCUA with respect to a federally insured credit union.
Appropriate Federal banking agency
has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 1813 and also includes the NCUA with respect to a federally insured credit union.
Capital distributions means:
Capital distributions
means:
(1) Dividends, including discretionary dividends, on non-senior securities and any other payments on a share of stock or other equity or equivalent interest;
(2) Payments, including interest payments, on non-senior securities, that the issuer has full discretion to permanently or temporarily suspend without triggering a default;
(3) Redemptions or repurchases of non-senior securities; or
(4) Any similar transaction that the Department of the Treasury determines to be in substance a capital distribution;
(5) Provided, that a “capital distribution” does not include:
(i) Redemptions or repurchases of shares that are part of an employee stock ownership plan for an ECIP recipient that is not publicly traded, provided that the repurchase is required solely by virtue of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
(ii) In the case of federally insured credit unions:
(A) Payments of dividends and interest (as defined by 12 CFR 707.2(h) and (o)) on accounts held by their members; provided that this exclusion does not apply to any extraordinary or special dividend by a credit union; or
(B) Redemptions of membership share interests upon voluntary or involuntary terminations of membership by a credit union or its members, as applicable; and
(iii) Solely in the case of § 35.23(b) (Limit on amount of capital distributions), redemptions or repurchases of non-senior securities if the issuer of the non-senior securities being repurchased or redeemed fully funds the redemption or repurchase by issuing at least a corresponding amount of new non-senior securities that rank equally in liquidation with, receive the same capital treatment as and, if applicable, have a stated maturity date no earlier than the non-senior securities being redeemed or repurchased.
ECIP means the Emergency Capital Investment Program established under Section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended.
ECIP
means the Emergency Capital Investment Program established under Section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended.
ECIP investment means any preferred stock, subordinated debt, or other instrument (including any successor to any such instrument) issued by an ECIP recipient to the Department of the Treasury under the ECIP.
ECIP investment
means any preferred stock, subordinated debt, or other instrument (including any successor to any such instrument) issued by an ECIP recipient to the Department of the Treasury under the ECIP.
ECIP investment agreement means the agreement between an ECIP recipient and the Department of the Treasury with respect to the ECIP investment in that ECIP recipient.
ECIP investment agreement
means the agreement between an ECIP recipient and the Department of the Treasury with respect to the ECIP investment in that ECIP recipient.
ECIP investment date means the date on which an ECIP recipient first issued an ECIP investment.
ECIP investment date
means the date on which an ECIP recipient first issued an ECIP investment.
ECIP period means the period from the ECIP investment date until the earliest of:
ECIP period
means the period from the ECIP investment date until the earliest of:
(1) The date on which the ECIP recipient has fully redeemed or repaid the ECIP investment received under ECIP;
(2) The date on which the investment the ECIP recipient received under the ECIP is no longer held, in full or in part, by the Department of the Treasury or any affiliate thereof; and
(3) Ten years after the ECIP investment date.
ECIP recipient means any entity that has received a capital investment under the ECIP.
ECIP recipient
means any entity that has received a capital investment under the ECIP.
Excessive or luxury expenditures means:
Excessive or luxury expenditures
means:
(1) Excessive expenditures on any of the following to the extent such expenditures are not reasonable expenditures for staff development, reasonable performance incentives, or other similar reasonable measures conducted in the normal course of the ECIP recipient's business operations:
(i) Entertainment or events;
(ii) Office and facility renovations;
(iii) Aviation or other transportation services;
(iv) Tax gross-ups; and
(v) Other similar items, activities, or events for which the ECIP recipient may reasonably anticipate incurring expenses, or reimbursing an employee for incurring expenses;
(2) Provided, that reasonable capital investments in technology, equipment, and similar items that expand the long-term capability of an ECIP recipient to provide products and services to its customers and community are not excessive or luxury expenditures.
Excessive or luxury expenditures policy means written standards applicable to the ECIP recipient and its employees that address the five categories of expenses set forth in the definition of “excessive or luxury expenditures,” and that are reasonably designed to eliminate excessive and luxury expenditures. Such written standards must:
Excessive or luxury expenditures policy
means written standards applicable to the ECIP recipient and its employees that address the five categories of expenses set forth in the definition of “excessive or luxury expenditures,” and that are reasonably designed to eliminate excessive and luxury expenditures. Such written standards must:
(1) Identify the types or categories of expenditures which are prohibited (which may include a threshold expenditure amount per item, activity, or event or a threshold expenditure amount per employee receiving the item or participating in the activity or event);
(2) Identify the types or categories of expenditures for which prior approval is required (which may include a threshold expenditure amount per item, activity, or event or a threshold expenditure amount per employee receiving the item or participating in the activity or event);
(3) Provide reasonable approval procedures for expenditures requiring prior approval;
(4) Require the ECIP recipient to deliver a certification, executed by two senior executive officers (one of which must be its principal executive officer or principal financial officer) certifying that the approval of any expenditure requiring the prior approval of any senior executive officer, any executive officer of a substantially similar level of responsibility, or the ECIP recipient's board of directors (or a committee of such board of directors), was properly obtained with respect to each such expenditure;
(5) Require the prompt internal reporting of violations to an appropriate person or persons identified in this policy; and
(6) Mandate accountability for adherence to the policy.
FDIC means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Federal Reserve Board means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Federal Reserve Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
NCUA means the National Credit Union Administration.
NCUA
means the National Credit Union Administration.
Non-senior security means any equity interest or equivalent interest (including but not limited to membership share interests in the case of a credit union) or any other interest in, or instrument issued by, an ECIP recipient that is pari passu with, or junior to, the ECIP investment with respect to capital distributions or ranking in liquidation, including but not limited to the common stock (or equivalent equity interest) of the ECIP recipient, or any equity interest or equivalent interest or any other interest in or instrument issued by a depository institution holding company of which the ECIP recipient is a subsidiary.
Non-senior security
means any equity interest or equivalent interest (including but not limited to membership share interests in the case of a credit union) or any other interest in, or instrument issued by, an ECIP recipient that is
pari passu
with, or junior to, the ECIP investment with respect to capital distributions or ranking in liquidation, including but not limited to the common stock (or equivalent equity interest) of the ECIP recipient, or any equity interest or equivalent interest or any other interest in or instrument issued by a depository institution holding company of which the ECIP recipient is a subsidiary.
OCC means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
OCC
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Principal executive officer means the chief executive officer of an ECIP recipient (or individual performing a similar function).
Principal executive officer
means the chief executive officer of an ECIP recipient (or individual performing a similar function).
Principal financial officer means the chief financial officer of an ECIP recipient (or individual performing a similar function).
Principal financial officer
means the chief financial officer of an ECIP recipient (or individual performing a similar function).
Senior executive officer means an ECIP recipient's president, any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function, any other officer who performs a policy making function, or any other person who performs similar policy making functions.
Senior executive officer
means an ECIP recipient's president, any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function, any other officer who performs a policy making function, or any other person who performs similar policy making functions.
Severance payment means any payment or benefit provided to an officer or employee of an ECIP recipient in connection with any termination of such officer or employee's employment with the ECIP recipient (including resignation, severance, retirement, or constructive termination), except for payment for services performed or benefits accrued. A severance payment includes cash payments, health care benefits, perquisites, the enhancement or acceleration of any payment or vesting of any payment or benefit, or any other in-kind benefit payable or provided in connection with any termination of an officer or employee of the ECIP recipient.
Severance payment
means any payment or benefit provided to an officer or employee of an ECIP recipient in connection with any termination of such officer or employee's employment with the ECIP recipient (including resignation, severance, retirement, or constructive termination), except for payment for services performed or benefits accrued. A severance payment includes cash payments, health care benefits, perquisites, the enhancement or acceleration of any payment or vesting of any payment or benefit, or any other in-kind benefit payable or provided in connection with any termination of an officer or employee of the ECIP recipient.
Total compensation means all compensation, other than any severance payment, provided by an ECIP recipient to an officer or employee, including salary, wages, bonuses, awards of stock, deferred compensation, and other financial benefits.
Total compensation
means all compensation, other than any severance payment, provided by an ECIP recipient to an officer or employee, including salary, wages, bonuses, awards of stock, deferred compensation, and other financial benefits.

§ 35.22   Restrictions on compensation.

(a) Restriction on executive compensation. An ECIP recipient must ensure that the total compensation paid to its senior executive officers is appropriate and not excessive. Unless informed otherwise by the Department of the Treasury, an ECIP recipient is considered to have satisfied the requirements regarding executive compensation in this section if it, and, if applicable, all insured depository institution subsidiaries of the ECIP recipient, maintains compliance with the following (or any successor requirement, as applicable):
Restriction on executive compensation.
An ECIP recipient must ensure that the total compensation paid to its senior executive officers is appropriate and not excessive. Unless informed otherwise by the Department of the Treasury, an ECIP recipient is considered to have satisfied the requirements regarding executive compensation in this section if it, and, if applicable, all insured depository institution subsidiaries of the ECIP recipient, maintains compliance with the following (or any successor requirement, as applicable):
(1) For an ECIP recipient or subsidiary of an ECIP recipient that is an insured depository institution, except for federally insured credit unions, the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness as issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency for the ECIP recipient or subsidiary (i.e., for national banks and Federal savings associations, 12 CFR part 30, appendix A; state member banks, 12 CFR part 208, appendix D-1; insured state nonmember banks and state savings associations, 12 CFR part 364, appendix A);
i.e.,
for national banks and Federal savings associations, 12 CFR part 30, appendix A; state member banks, 12 CFR part 208, appendix D-1; insured state nonmember banks and state savings associations, 12 CFR part 364, appendix A);
(2) For an ECIP recipient that is a bank holding company, the requirements for corporate practices of bank holding companies as issued by the Federal Reserve Board at 12 CFR 225.4;
(3) For an ECIP recipient that is a savings and loan holding company, the requirements regarding safe and sound operations of savings and loan holding companies as issued by the Federal Reserve Board at 12 CFR 238.8; and
(4) For an ECIP recipient that is a federally insured credit union, the requirements on compensation and benefits for federally insured credit unions as issued by the NCUA at 12 CFR 701.19(a); 12 CFR 701.21(c)(8); 12 CFR 702.203(b)(10); and 12 CFR 702.204(b)(10).
(b) Restriction on severance payments. An ECIP recipient shall not make excessive severance payments to any senior executive officer. Unless informed otherwise by the Department of the Treasury, an ECIP is considered to have satisfied the requirements regarding severance payments in this section if it maintains compliance with the following (or any successor requirement, as applicable):
Restriction on severance payments.
An ECIP recipient shall not make excessive severance payments to any senior executive officer. Unless informed otherwise by the Department of the Treasury, an ECIP is considered to have satisfied the requirements regarding severance payments in this section if it maintains compliance with the following (or any successor requirement, as applicable):
(1) For an ECIP recipient that is an insured depository institution, a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company, the limits and prohibitions to enter into contracts to pay and to make golden parachute and indemnification payments to institution-affiliated parties to the extent applicable to the ECIP recipient, as issued by the FDIC at 12 CFR part 359; and
(2) For an ECIP recipient that is a federally insured credit union, the limits and prohibitions on the ability of federally insured credit unions to enter into contracts to pay and to make golden parachute and indemnification payments to institution-affiliated parties as issued by the NCUA at 12 CFR 750.1.
(c) Excessive or luxury expenditures. (1) Ninety days after an ECIP investment date with respect to an ECIP recipient, the board of directors of the ECIP recipient must adopt an excessive or luxury expenditures policy, provide such policy to the Department of the Treasury and the ECIP recipient's appropriate Federal banking agency, and post the text of such policy on its internet website, if the ECIP recipient maintains an internet website.
Excessive or luxury expenditures.
(1) Ninety days after an ECIP investment date with respect to an ECIP recipient, the board of directors of the ECIP recipient must adopt an excessive or luxury expenditures policy, provide such policy to the Department of the Treasury and the ECIP recipient's appropriate Federal banking agency, and post the text of such policy on its internet website, if the ECIP recipient maintains an internet website.
(2) If, after adopting an excessive or luxury expenditures policy, the board of directors of the ECIP recipient makes any material amendments to such policy, within ninety days of the adoption of the amended policy the board of directors must provide the amended policy to the Department of the Treasury and the ECIP recipient's appropriate Federal banking agency and post the amended policy on its internet website, if the ECIP recipient maintains an internet website.
(3) The ECIP recipient must maintain, and continue the disclosure of any material amendments to, the excessive or luxury expenditures policy during the ECIP period, unless the Department of the Treasury determines that discontinuation of the policy would not be contrary to the public interest.
(d) Material changes in policies or procedures. An ECIP recipient must obtain prior approval from the Department of the Treasury before making any material change to the policies or procedures that it maintains for purposes of compliance with paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. A change to the compensation, severance pay, or excessive or luxury expenditures policies or procedures will be considered material for purposes of this section if the change is likely to have a negative effect on the financial condition of the ECIP recipient, limit the ability of the ECIP recipient to make payments under the terms of an ECIP instrument, or otherwise impair the ECIP recipient's ability to meet its obligations to the Department of the Treasury under the ECIP.
Material changes in policies or procedures.
An ECIP recipient must obtain prior approval from the Department of the Treasury before making any material change to the policies or procedures that it maintains for purposes of compliance with paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. A change to the compensation, severance pay, or excessive or luxury expenditures policies or procedures will be considered material for purposes of this section if the change is likely to have a negative effect on the financial condition of the ECIP recipient, limit the ability of the ECIP recipient to make payments under the terms of an ECIP instrument, or otherwise impair the ECIP recipient's ability to meet its obligations to the Department of the Treasury under the ECIP.
(1) A request to make a material change to compensation, severance pay or excessive luxury expenditures policies or procedures, must be submitted by an ECIP recipient in writing and received by the Department of the Treasury at least thirty days prior to the effective date of the policy change. The request should describe the change, reason for the change, and anticipated financial or other impact of the change on the condition of the ECIP recipient.
(2) The request will be deemed approved thirty days after the ECIP recipient has provided a complete request to the Department of the Treasury, unless, prior to the expiration of the thirty-day period, the Department of the Treasury objects to the proposed change or notifies the ECIP recipient that additional time is required in order to complete review of the proposed change to policy or procedures

§ 35.23   Restrictions on dividends, share buybacks, and other capital distributions.

(a) Restriction on capital distributions due to nonpayment. An ECIP recipient shall not make any capital distribution on a non-senior security, unless:
Restriction on capital distributions due to nonpayment.
An ECIP recipient shall not make any capital distribution on a non-senior security, unless:
(1) If the ECIP investment is in the form of preferred stock, the ECIP recipient has paid in full the dividends for the last completed dividend period on the preferred stock; or
(2) If the ECIP investment is in a form other than preferred stock (including, subordinated debt), the ECIP recipient has paid in full the principal, interest, and other amounts due and payable under the terms of the ECIP investment, and no amount that has been deferred remains unpaid.
(b) Limit on amount of capital distributions. (1) If an ECIP recipient is an insured depository institution, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company, the ECIP recipient shall obtain the approval of the Department of the Treasury prior to making any capital distribution if the total of capital distributions made during the calendar year, including the proposed capital distribution, exceeds its eligible distributable income; provided, however, that any prior approval of a capital distribution by the Department of the Treasury does not supersede any applicable regulatory requirements of the ECIP recipient's appropriate Federal banking agency, or other actions taken by such agency. For purposes of this paragraph, “eligible distributable income” means the sum of the ECIP recipient's reported year-to-date net income as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter, plus net income for the two preceding calendar years, less any dividends or distributions for the year to date as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter and the two preceding calendar years, where each amount is calculated in accordance with the instructions to the Call Report or applicable reporting form.
Limit on amount of capital distributions.
(1) If an ECIP recipient is an insured depository institution, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company, the ECIP recipient shall obtain the approval of the Department of the Treasury prior to making any capital distribution if the total of capital distributions made during the calendar year, including the proposed capital distribution, exceeds its eligible distributable income; provided, however, that any prior approval of a capital distribution by the Department of the Treasury does not supersede any applicable regulatory requirements of the ECIP recipient's appropriate Federal banking agency, or other actions taken by such agency. For purposes of this paragraph, “eligible distributable income” means the sum of the ECIP recipient's reported year-to-date net income as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter, plus net income for the two preceding calendar years, less any dividends or distributions for the year to date as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter and the two preceding calendar years, where each amount is calculated in accordance with the instructions to the Call Report or applicable reporting form.
(2) If the ECIP recipient is federally insured credit union, the ECIP recipient shall obtain the Department of the Treasury's prior approval to make any capital distributions if the distribution would:
(i) In the case of a dividend, be payable from retained earnings (as defined in 12 CFR 702.2(f)) other than undivided earnings; or
(ii) Cause the ECIP recipient's net worth classification to fall below “adequately capitalized” (as defined in 12 CFR 702.102(a)(2)).
(c) Exception for Subchapter S Corporations and other pass-through entities. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, any ECIP recipient that is an S corporation, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1361(a), or other pass-through entity may make capital distributions, to the extent reasonably required to cover its owners' tax obligations in respect to the entity's earnings. Such distributions shall be subject to an annual reconciliation, with any surplus or deficiency to be deducted or added to distributions, as applicable, in the following year. Any tax-related distributions permitted under this paragraph (c) must also comply with any applicable limitations or determinations established by an ECIP recipient's Federal regulators.
Exception for Subchapter S Corporations and other pass-through entities.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, any ECIP recipient that is an S corporation, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1361(a), or other pass-through entity may make capital distributions, to the extent reasonably required to cover its owners' tax obligations in respect to the entity's earnings. Such distributions shall be subject to an annual reconciliation, with any surplus or deficiency to be deducted or added to distributions, as applicable, in the following year. Any tax-related distributions permitted under this paragraph (c) must also comply with any applicable limitations or determinations established by an ECIP recipient's Federal regulators.

§ 35.24   Annual certification.

On an annual basis an ECIP recipient shall, in accordance with the terms and conditions of its ECIP investment agreement, submit to the Department of the Treasury a certification executed by two senior executive officers (one of which must be either its principal executive officer or principal financial officer) that the ECIP recipient is in compliance with each of the excessive compensation, severance pay, and excessive or luxury expenditures requirements and restrictions on capital distributions set forth in §§ 35.22 and 35.23.

§ 35.25   Exemptive relief.

The Department of the Treasury may grant exemptions or waivers from some or all of the restrictions on share buybacks and dividend payments under this part if such exemption or waiver is necessary or appropriate to effectuate the goals of the ECIP or to protect the public interest. Such exemptions or waivers may be subject to such terms and conditions as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Department of the Treasury.

Subpart C—State Small Business Credit Initiative Small Business Owners Demographics Data Collection

[Source:87 FR 13633, Mar. 10, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 13633, Mar. 10, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

§ 35.26   Authority, scope, and purpose.

(a) Authority and scope. This subpart is issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury pursuant to Sections 3007 and 3010 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, as amended by the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (12 U.S.C. 5706, 5709).
Authority and scope.
This subpart is issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury pursuant to Sections 3007 and 3010 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, as amended by the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (12 U.S.C. 5706, 5709).
(b) Purpose. The U.S. Department of the Treasury is collecting demographics-related data regarding those who own or control businesses that receive a loan, investment, other credit or equity support, or technical assistance under the State Small Business Credit Initiative for purposes of implementation, compliance, and understanding program outcomes.
Purpose.
The U.S. Department of the Treasury is collecting demographics-related data regarding those who own or control businesses that receive a loan, investment, other credit or equity support, or technical assistance under the State Small Business Credit Initiative for purposes of implementation, compliance, and understanding program outcomes.

§ 35.27   Definitions.

In this subpart:
(a) Controlling influence over a business means having the power to control, manage, or direct the business. A person is presumed to have a controlling influence over a business if the person is a senior executive officer or senior manager of the business (e.g., Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer), or any other individual who regularly performs similar functions.
Controlling influence over a business
means having the power to control, manage, or direct the business. A person is presumed to have a controlling influence over a business if the person is a senior executive officer or senior manager of the business (e.g., Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer), or any other individual who regularly performs similar functions.
(b) Jurisdiction means:
Jurisdiction
means:
(1) One of the fifty states of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the United States Virgin Islands;
(3) When designated by one of the fifty states of the United States, a political subdivision of that state that the U.S. Department of the Treasury determines has the capacity to participate in the State Small Business Credit Initiative;
(4) Under the circumstances described in 12 U.S.C. 5703(d), a municipality of one of the fifty states of the United States to which the U.S. Department of the Treasury has given a special permission under 12 U.S.C. 5703(d); and
(5) A Tribal government or a group of Tribal governments that jointly apply to be approved by the U.S. Department of Treasury to participate in the State Small Business Credit Initiative as a single participating jurisdiction.
(c) Minority individual means a natural person who identifies as American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; or Hispanic or Latino/a; or one or more than one of these groups.
Minority individual
means a natural person who identifies as American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; or Hispanic or Latino/a; or one or more than one of these groups.
(d) Minority-owned or controlled business means a business that:
Minority-owned or controlled business
means a business that:
(1) If privately owned, 51 percent or more is owned by minority individuals;
(2) If publicly owned, 51 percent or more of the stock is owned by minority individuals;
(3) In the case of a mutual institution, a majority of the board of directors, account holders, and the community which the institution services is predominantly comprised of minority individuals; or
(4) One or more minority individuals have the power to exercise a controlling influence over the business.
(e) Participating jurisdiction means a jurisdiction that has been approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury for participation in the State Small Business Credit Initiative.
Participating jurisdiction
means a jurisdiction that has been approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury for participation in the State Small Business Credit Initiative.
(f) Principal owner of a business means a natural person who directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, owns 25 percent or more of the equity interests of the business. If a trust owns, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, 25 percent or more of the equity interests of the business, the trustee is a principal owner.
Principal owner
of a business means a natural person who directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, owns 25 percent or more of the equity interests of the business. If a trust owns, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, 25 percent or more of the equity interests of the business, the trustee is a principal owner.
(g) Socially and economically disadvantaged individual (SEDI) demographics-related business means a business owned and controlled by individuals who have had their access to credit on reasonable terms diminished compared to others in comparable economic circumstances, due to their:
Socially and economically disadvantaged individual (SEDI) demographics-related business
means a business owned and controlled by individuals who have had their access to credit on reasonable terms diminished compared to others in comparable economic circumstances, due to their:
(1) Membership of a group that has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society;
(2) Gender;
(3) Veteran status;
(4) Limited English proficiency;
(5) Disability;
(6) Long-term residence in an environment isolated from the mainstream of American society;
(7) Membership of a federally or state-recognized Indian Tribe;
(8) Long-term residence in a rural community;
(9) Residence in a U.S. territory;
(10) Residence in a community undergoing economic transitions (including communities impacted by the shift towards a net-zero economy or deindustrialization); or
(11) Membership of an underserved community.
underserved community.
(i) Underserved communities are populations sharing a particular characteristic, as well as geographic communities, that have been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life, as exemplified by the list in the definition of equity in paragraph (g)(11)(ii) of this section; and
Underserved communities
are populations sharing a particular characteristic, as well as geographic communities, that have been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life, as exemplified by the list in the definition of
equity
in paragraph (g)(11)(ii) of this section; and
(ii) Equity is consistent and systematic fair, just, and impartial treatment of all individuals, including individuals who belong to underserved communities that have been denied such treatment, such as Black, Latino, and Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, and other persons of color; members of religious minorities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; and persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.
Equity
is consistent and systematic fair, just, and impartial treatment of all individuals, including individuals who belong to underserved communities that have been denied such treatment, such as Black, Latino, and Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, and other persons of color; members of religious minorities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; and persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.
(12) For purposes of this paragraph (g), a business is “owned and controlled” by applicable individuals:
(i) If privately owned, 51 percent or more is owned by such individuals;
(ii) If publicly owned, 51 percent more or of the stock is owned by such individuals; and
(ii) In the case of a mutual institution, if a majority of the board of directors, account holders, and the community which the institution services is predominantly comprised of such individuals.
(h) Veteran-owned or controlled business means a business that:
Veteran-owned or controlled business
means a business that:
(1) If privately owned, 51 percent or more is owned by veterans;
(2) If publicly owned, 51 percent or more of the stock is owned by veterans;
(3) In the case of a mutual institution, a majority of the board of directors, account holders, and the community which the institution services is predominantly comprised of veterans; or
(4) One or more individuals who are veterans have the power to exercise a controlling influence over the business.
(i) Women-owned or controlled business means a business that:
Women-owned or controlled business
means a business that:
(1) If privately owned, 51 percent or more is owned by females;
(2) If publicly owned, 51 percent or more of the stock is owned by females;
(3) In the case of a mutual institution, a majority of the board of directors, account holders, and the community which the institution services is predominantly comprised of females; or
(4) One or more individuals who are females have the power to exercise a controlling influence over the business.

§ 35.28   Annual report requirements.

By March 31 of each year beginning March 31, 2023, and ending with the report to be submitted on March 31, 2028, each participating jurisdiction shall submit to the U.S. Department of the Treasury an annual report that includes, with respect to the previous calendar year, the following data for each business that receives a loan, investment, other credit or equity support, or technical assistance as part of the State Small Business Credit Initiative. For each business that receives a loan, investment, or other credit or equity support under the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the reported data shall be based on the ownership and control of the business immediately before the consummation of such loan, investment, or other credit or equity support-related transaction. For each business that receives technical assistance under the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the reported data shall be based on the ownership and control of the business at the time it receives such technical assistance.
(a) Self-certified SEDI demographics-related business status. (1) Indicate which one or more of the following categories apply: Self-certified due to membership of a group that has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society; self-certified due to gender; self-certified due to veteran status; self-certified due to limited English proficiency; self-certified due to disability; self-certified due to long-term residence in an environment isolated from the mainstream of American society; self-certified due to membership of a federally or state-recognized Indian Tribe; self-certified due to long-term residence in a rural community; self-certified due to residence in a U.S. territory; self-certified due to residence in a community undergoing economic transitions (including communities impacted by the shift towards a net-zero economy or deindustrialization); self-certified due to membership of an “underserved community” as defined in § 35.27(g)(11)(i); none of the preceding categories are applicable; prefer not to respond; or the business did not answer.
Self-certified SEDI demographics-related business status.
(1) Indicate which one or more of the following categories apply: Self-certified due to membership of a group that has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society; self-certified due to gender; self-certified due to veteran status; self-certified due to limited English proficiency; self-certified due to disability; self-certified due to long-term residence in an environment isolated from the mainstream of American society; self-certified due to membership of a federally or state-recognized Indian Tribe; self-certified due to long-term residence in a rural community; self-certified due to residence in a U.S. territory; self-certified due to residence in a community undergoing economic transitions (including communities impacted by the shift towards a net-zero economy or deindustrialization); self-certified due to membership of an “underserved community” as defined in § 35.27(g)(11)(i); none of the preceding categories are applicable; prefer not to respond; or the business did not answer.
(2) The participating jurisdiction must permit each business to identify all of the categories that apply in the definition of SEDI demographics-related business, and the participating jurisdiction must report to Treasury all categories identified by the business.
(b) Minority-owned or controlled business status. Indicate whether the business is a minority-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
Minority-owned or controlled business status.
Indicate whether the business is a minority-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(c) Women-owned or controlled business status. Indicate whether the business is a women-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
Women-owned or controlled business status.
Indicate whether the business is a women-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(d) Veteran-owned or controlled business status. Indicate whether the business is a veteran-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
Veteran-owned or controlled business status.
Indicate whether the business is a veteran-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(e) Race of principal owners. (1) For each principal owner of the business, indicate which one or more of the following race categories (including the Office of Management and Budget's minimum categories and the relevant disaggregated categories) with which the principal owner identifies: American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Asian disaggregated categories: Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Asian (Other); Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander disaggregated categories: Guamanian or Chamorro, Native Hawaiian, Samoan, Pacific Islander (Other); White; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
Race of principal owners.
(1) For each principal owner of the business, indicate which one or more of the following race categories (including the Office of Management and Budget's minimum categories and the relevant disaggregated categories) with which the principal owner identifies: American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Asian disaggregated categories: Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Asian (Other); Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander disaggregated categories: Guamanian or Chamorro, Native Hawaiian, Samoan, Pacific Islander (Other); White; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(2) The participating jurisdiction must permit each business to identify all of the Office of Management and Budget's minimum categories and disaggregated categories in paragraph (e)(1) of this section with which each principal owner of the business identifies, and the participating jurisdiction must report to Treasury all categories identified by the business.
(f) Ethnicity of principal owners. For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following ethnicity categories the principal owner identifies with: Hispanic or Latino/a; not Hispanic or Latino/a; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
Ethnicity of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following ethnicity categories the principal owner identifies with: Hispanic or Latino/a; not Hispanic or Latino/a; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(g) Middle Eastern or North African Ancestry of principal owners. For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following ancestry categories the principal owner identifies with: Middle Eastern or North African; not Middle Eastern or North African; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
Middle Eastern or North African Ancestry of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following ancestry categories the principal owner identifies with: Middle Eastern or North African; not Middle Eastern or North African; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(h) Gender of principal owners. For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following gender categories the principal owner identifies with: Female; male; nonbinary; prefer to self-describe, prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer. If the “prefer to self-describe” option is chosen, the participating jurisdiction must provide an option for the business to write in the gender and must report what the business writes in.
Gender of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following gender categories the principal owner identifies with: Female; male; nonbinary; prefer to self-describe, prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer. If the “prefer to self-describe” option is chosen, the participating jurisdiction must provide an option for the business to write in the gender and must report what the business writes in.
(i) Sexual orientation of principal owners. For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following sexual orientation categories the principal owner identifies with: Gay or lesbian; bisexual; straight, that is, not gay, lesbian, or bisexual; something else; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
Sexual orientation of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following sexual orientation categories the principal owner identifies with: Gay or lesbian; bisexual; straight, that is, not gay, lesbian, or bisexual; something else; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(j) Veteran status of principal owners. For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following categories the principal owner identifies with: Veteran; non-veteran; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
Veteran status of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following categories the principal owner identifies with: Veteran; non-veteran; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.

§ 35.29   Format.

Participating jurisdictions must submit the information required under § 35.28 using the formats specified from time to time on the U.S. Department of the Treasury's website.

Appendix A to Part 35—Emergency Capital Investment Program Model Excessive or Luxury Expenditures Policy

I. Introduction
A participant in the Emergency Capital Investment Program (ECIP recipient, as defined at 31 CFR 35.21) is required to establish and maintain policies designed to eliminate excessive or luxury expenditures. The term “excessive or luxury expenditures” means excessive expenditures on any of the following to the extent such expenditures are not reasonable expenditures for staff development, reasonable performance incentives, or other similar reasonable measures conducted in the normal course of the ECIP recipient's business operations: (1) Entertainment or events; (2) office and facility renovations; (3) aviation or other transportation services; (4) tax gross-ups; and (5) other similar items, activities, or events for which the ECIP recipient may reasonably anticipate incurring expenses, or reimbursing an employee for incurring expenses.
(1) To facilitate compliance with this requirement, the Department of the Treasury is making available a model excessive or luxury expenditures policy. An ECIP recipient may refer to this model policy for guidance in satisfying the requirement at 31 CFR 35.22(c) to adopt and maintain an excessive or luxury expenditures policy. Alternatively, ECIP recipients may use other forms of, or existing policies relating to, excessive or luxury expenditures, provided that such other forms or policies satisfy all the requirements of the regulation at 31 CFR 35.22(c).
(2) An ECIP recipient's luxury or excessive expenditure policy should be posted on the ECIP recipient's website. Any material amendments to an ECIP recipient's excessive or luxury expenditures policy must made in accordance with the provisions set forth in 31 CFR 35.22(d) (Material changes in policies or procedures). If the ECIP recipient makes any material amendments to this policy, then the ECIP recipient must submit a copy of the amended policy to the Department of the Treasury and post the amended policy on the ECIP recipient's website. ECIP recipients should refer to 31 CFR part 35, subpart B for additional information regarding definitions of terms used in the model policy, disclosure, material changes, certification, and other compliance requirements.
II. Model Excessive or Luxury Expenditures Policy
A. Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to establish parameters and internal controls governing the expenditures of [NAME OF ECIP RECIPIENT] (together with its subsidiaries and controlled affiliates, referred to hereafter as the Organization). Expenditures of the Organization should be customary, prudent, consistent with applicable laws and regulations, and reasonably related to the Organization's business objectives and needs. This policy identifies expenditures that are excessive or luxury expenditures, creates processes that are reasonably designed to eliminate such expenditures, and establishes accountability for compliance. Routine operating expenses, capital expenditures, and other reasonable expenses are not prohibited by this policy.
B. Authority
The Organization has authority to provide compensation and benefits that are reasonable. This policy establishes a prohibition on expenditures that are excessive or luxury expenditures as required by the Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program regulations (31 CFR part 35), and as may be required by other statutes and regulations.
C. Responsibility
This policy is the responsibility of the Organization's board of directors (board). The board has approved this policy and will review compliance with this policy no less frequently than annually, and summary data on excessive or luxury expenditures will be reported to the board as part of the compliance review.
D. Scope
This policy applies to all employees, officers, and directors of the Organization with regard to any expenditure of the Organization. In making any expenditure on behalf of the Organization, employees, officers, and directors should consider whether the expenditure is an excessive or luxury expenditure that is prohibited under this policy.
E. Excessive or Luxury Expenditures
“Excessive or luxury expenditures” means excessive expenditures on any of the following to the extent not reasonable or appropriate expenditures for business development, staff development, reasonable performance incentives, or other similar reasonable measures conducted in the normal course of the Organization's business operations:
(1) Entertainment or events. This category includes fees, dues, tickets costs related to social, athletic, artistic and dining clubs, activities, celebrations or other events, and similar expenditures. Expenditures for charitable contributions and charitable events are not prohibited under this policy. Entertainment or events expenditures in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
Entertainment or events.
This category includes fees, dues, tickets costs related to social, athletic, artistic and dining clubs, activities, celebrations or other events, and similar expenditures. Expenditures for charitable contributions and charitable events are not prohibited under this policy. Entertainment or events expenditures in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
(2) Office and facility renovations. This category includes costs and allowances for office renovation, including expenditures related to furniture, art, office personalization, interior finishing, design and decoration, and similar expenditures. Office and facility renovations expenditures in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
Office and facility renovations.
This category includes costs and allowances for office renovation, including expenditures related to furniture, art, office personalization, interior finishing, design and decoration, and similar expenditures. Office and facility renovations expenditures in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
(3) Aviation or other transportation services. (i) This category includes charter fees, tickets, slip or docking fees, vehicle installment payments, reservation and travel agent expenses, and similar expenditures associated with transportation services (e.g., airline, train, rental cars, or vans). Mileage reimbursable according to current Internal Revenue Service mileage rates is exempt from this policy. Transportation services in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
Aviation or other transportation services.
(i) This category includes charter fees, tickets, slip or docking fees, vehicle installment payments, reservation and travel agent expenses, and similar expenditures associated with transportation services (
e.g.,
airline, train, rental cars, or vans). Mileage reimbursable according to current Internal Revenue Service mileage rates is exempt from this policy. Transportation services in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
(ii) The principal executive officer may establish or delegate to an appropriate executive officer the authority to establish processes for reimbursement of reasonable travel expenditures, which processes must be reviewed by executive management no less frequently than annually.
(4) Tax gross-ups. This category includes any reimbursement of taxes owed with respect to any compensation. This category does not apply to tax equalization agreements for employees subject to tax from a non-U.S. jurisdiction.
Tax gross-ups.
This category includes any reimbursement of taxes owed with respect to any compensation. This category does not apply to tax equalization agreements for employees subject to tax from a non-U.S. jurisdiction.
(5) Other similar items, activities, or events for which the Organization may reasonably anticipate incurring expenses or reimbursing an employee for incurring expenses. (i) Expenditures related to other items not listed in the preceding categories are exempt from this policy in an amount less than $___ per instance, and together with all expenditures permitted under this policy, may not exceed $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual.
Other similar items, activities, or events for which the Organization may reasonably anticipate incurring expenses or reimbursing an employee for incurring expenses.
(i) Expenditures related to other items not listed in the preceding categories are exempt from this policy in an amount less than $___ per instance, and together with all expenditures permitted under this policy, may not exceed $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual.
(ii) For the avoidance of doubt, reasonable capital investments in technology, equipment, and similar items that expand the long-term capability of an ECIP recipient to provide products and services to its customers and community are not excessive or luxury expenditures.
(iii) The principal executive officer may establish or delegate to an appropriate executive officer the authority to establish processes for the evaluation and approval of expenditures in the preceding categories that are not luxury or excessive expenditures and that are not otherwise exempt from this policy. These processes must be reviewed by executive management no less frequently than annually, as well as any additional threshold expenditure amounts per item, activity, or event, or a threshold expenditure amount per employee receiving the item or participating in the activity or event under this policy. Such approvals must be reported to the board of directors (which may be in an appropriate summary form) no less frequently than annually.
F. Exceptions or Violations
(1) Any exception or violation of this policy must be promptly reported to the Organization's (i) principal executive officer, (ii) officer with primary responsibility for the Organization's compliance function, or (iii) officer designated with primary responsibility for overseeing the administration, monitoring, and compliance with this policy. Exceptions and violations must be reported to the board of directors no less frequently than annually, or more frequently as the nature and severity of violation may warrant. All employees, officers, and directors of the Organization must adhere to this policy and will be held accountable for compliance. Any employee or officer who violates this policy may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.
(2) Any employee or officer that is aware of any circumstance that may indicate a violation of this policy is required to report such circumstance to their supervisor or the Organization's principal compliance officer or compliance group. The Organization prohibits retaliation against any employee or officer for making a good faith report of actual or suspected violations of the Organization's code of conduct, laws, regulations, or other Organization policies, including this policy. A finding of retaliation against any such employee or officer may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. Failure to promptly report known violations by others may also be deemed a violation of the Organization's code of conduct.
(3) Employees and officers may ask questions, raise concerns, or report instances of non-compliance with this policy and/or any of the existing underlying relevant policies by contacting the following: [COMPLIANCE HELP LINE OR E-MAIL].
G. Certification
On an annual basis, the ECIP recipient will deliver to the Department of the Treasury a certification, executed by two senior executive officers (one of which must be either the ECIP recipient's principal executive officer or principal financial officer) certifying that (i) the Organization is in compliance with this policy and (ii) the approval of any expenditure requiring the prior approval of any senior executive officer, any executive officer of a substantially similar level of responsibility, or the board of directors (or a committee of such board), was properly obtained with respect to each such expenditure.

PART 50—TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE PROGRAM

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; Title I, Pub. L. 107-297, 116 Stat. 2322, as amended by Pub. L. 109-144, 119 Stat. 2660, Pub. L. 110-160, 121 Stat. 1839, Pub. L. 114-1, 129 Stat. 3, and Pub. L. 116-94, 133 Stat. 2534 (15 U.S.C. 6701 note); Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 601, Title VII (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; Title I, Pub. L. 107-297, 116 Stat. 2322, as amended by Pub. L. 109-144, 119 Stat. 2660, Pub. L. 110-160, 121 Stat. 1839, Pub. L. 114-1, 129 Stat. 3, and Pub. L. 116-94, 133 Stat. 2534 (15 U.S.C. 6701 note); Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 601, Title VII (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
[Source:81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 50.1   Authority, purpose, and scope.

(a) Authority. This part is issued pursuant to authority in Title I of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, Public Law 107-297, 116 Stat. 2322, as amended by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, Public Law 109-144, 119 Stat. 2660, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, Public Law 110-160, 121 Stat. 1839, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015, Public Law 114-1, 129 Stat. 3, and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019, Public Law 116-94, 133 Stat. 2534.
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to authority in Title I of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, Public Law 107-297, 116 Stat. 2322, as amended by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, Public Law 109-144, 119 Stat. 2660, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, Public Law 110-160, 121 Stat. 1839, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015, Public Law 114-1, 129 Stat. 3, and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019, Public Law 116-94, 133 Stat. 2534.
(b) Purpose. This part contains rules prescribed by the Department of the Treasury to implement and administer the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program.
Purpose.
This part contains rules prescribed by the Department of the Treasury to implement and administer the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program.
(c) Scope. This part applies to insurers subject to the Act and their policyholders and claimants.
Scope.
This part applies to insurers subject to the Act and their policyholders and claimants.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.2   Responsible office.

The office responsible for the administration of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act in the Department of the Treasury is the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office within the Federal Insurance Office. The Treasury Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions prescribes the regulations under the Act.

§ 50.3   Mandatory participation in program.

Any entity that meets the definition of an insurer under the Act is required to participate in the Program.

§ 50.4   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:
(a) Act means the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (as amended).
Act
means the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (as amended).
(b) Act of terrorism—(1) In general. The term act of terrorism means any act that is certified by the Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
Act of terrorism
—(1)
In general.
The term
act of terrorism
means any act that is certified by the Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) To be an act of terrorism;
(ii) To be a violent act or an act that is dangerous to human life, property, or infrastructure;
(iii) To have resulted in damage within the United States, or outside of the United States in the case of:
(A) An air carrier (as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102) or a United States flag vessel (or a vessel based principally in the United States, on which United States income tax is paid and whose insurance coverage is subject to regulation in the United States); or
(B) The premises of a United States mission; and
(iv) To have been committed by an individual or individuals as part of an effort to coerce the civilian population of the United States or to influence the policy or affect the conduct of the United States Government by coercion.
(2) Limitations. The Secretary is not authorized to certify an act as an act of terrorism if:
Limitations.
The Secretary is not authorized to certify an act as an act of terrorism if:
(i) The act is committed as part of the course of a war declared by the Congress (except with respect to any coverage for workers' compensation); or
(ii) Property and casualty insurance losses resulting from the act, in the aggregate, do not exceed $5,000,000. For these purposes, property and casualty insurance losses include any amounts subject to payment under a property and casualty insurance policy, even if the policyholder declined to obtain terrorism risk insurance under the policy or is otherwise ultimately responsible for the payment.
(3) Judicial review precluded. The Secretary's certification of an act of terrorism, or determination not to certify an act as an act of terrorism, is final and is not subject to judicial review.
Judicial review precluded.
The Secretary's certification of an act of terrorism, or determination not to certify an act as an act of terrorism, is final and is not subject to judicial review.
(c)(1) Affiliate means, with respect to an insurer, any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the insurer. An affiliate must itself meet the definition of insurer to participate in the Program.
Affiliate
means, with respect to an insurer, any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the insurer. An affiliate must itself meet the definition of insurer to participate in the Program.
(2)(i) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an insurer has control over another insurer for purposes of the Program if:
(A) The insurer directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other insurer;
(B) The insurer controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other insurer; or
(C) The Secretary determines, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that an insurer directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other insurer, even if there is no control as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) or (c)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
(ii) An entity, including any affiliate thereof, does not have control or exercise controlling influence over a reciprocal insurer under this section if, as of January 12, 2015, the entity, including any affiliate thereof, was acting as an attorney-in-fact for the reciprocal insurer, provided that the entity does not, for reasons other than activities it may perform under the attorney-in-fact relationship, have control over the reciprocal insurer as otherwise defined under this section.
(3) An insurer described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section is conclusively deemed to have control.
(4) For purposes of a determination of controlling influence under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section, if an insurer is not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, the following rebuttable presumptions will apply:
(i) If an insurer controls another insurer under the laws of a state, and at least one of the factors listed in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section applies, there is a rebuttable presumption that the insurer that has control under state law exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other insurer for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii) If an insurer provides 25 percent or more of another insurer's capital (in the case of a stock insurer), policyholder surplus (in the case of a mutual insurer), or corporate capital (in the case of other entities that qualify as insurers), and at least one of the factors listed in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section applies, there is a rebuttable presumption that the insurer providing such capital, policyholder surplus, or corporate capital exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the receiving insurer for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(iii) If an insurer, at any time during a calendar year, supplies 25 percent or more of the underwriting capacity for that year to an insurer that is a syndicate consisting of one or more incorporated or individual unincorporated underwriters, and at least one of the factors in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section applies, there is a rebuttable presumption that the insurer exercises a controlling influence over the syndicate for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(iv) If paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section are not applicable, but two or more of the following factors apply to an insurer, with respect to another insurer, there is a rebuttable presumption that the insurer exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other insurer for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section:
(A) The insurer is one of the two largest shareholders of any class of voting stock;
(B) The insurer holds more than 35 percent of the combined debt securities and equity of the other insurer;
(C) The insurer is party to an agreement pursuant to which the insurer possesses a material economic stake in the other insurer resulting from a profit-sharing arrangement, use of common names, facilities or personnel, or the provision of essential services to the other insurer;
(D) The insurer is party to an agreement that enables the insurer to influence a material aspect of the management or policies of the other insurer;
(E) The insurer would have the ability, other than through the holding of revocable proxies, to direct the votes of more than 25 percent of the other insurer's voting stock in the future upon the occurrence of an event;
(F) The insurer has the power to direct the disposition of more than 25 percent of a class of voting stock of the other insurer in a manner other than a widely dispersed or public offering;
(G) The insurer and/or the insurer's representative or nominee constitute more than one member of the other insurer's board of directors; or
(H) The insurer or its nominee or an officer of the insurer serves as the chairman of the board, chairman of the executive committee, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer or in any position with similar policymaking authority in the other insurer.
(5) An insurer that is not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section may request a hearing in which the insurer may rebut a presumption of controlling influence under paragraph (c)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section or otherwise request a determination of controlling influence by presenting and supporting its position through written submissions to Treasury, and in Treasury's discretion, through informal oral presentations, in accordance with the procedure in § 50.7.
(6) An insurer's affiliates for a calendar year, for purposes of subpart H of this part, shall be determined in accordance with the timing requirements laid out in § 50.75 of this part.
(d) Aggregate Federal share of compensation means the aggregate amount paid by Treasury for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses in a calendar year.
Aggregate Federal share of compensation
means the aggregate amount paid by Treasury for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses in a calendar year.
(e) Assessment period means a period, established by Treasury, during which policyholders of property and casualty insurance policies must pay, and insurers must collect, the Federal terrorism policy surcharge for remittance to Treasury.
Assessment period
means a period, established by Treasury, during which policyholders of property and casualty insurance policies must pay, and insurers must collect, the Federal terrorism policy surcharge for remittance to Treasury.
(f) Attorney-in-fact means a person or entity appointed by the subscribers or members of a reciprocal insurer to act for and bind the reciprocal insurer under relevant state law for the benefit of its subscribers or members.
Attorney-in-fact
means a person or entity appointed by the subscribers or members of a reciprocal insurer to act for and bind the reciprocal insurer under relevant state law for the benefit of its subscribers or members.
(g) Captive insurer means an insurer licensed under the captive insurance laws or regulations of any state.
Captive insurer
means an insurer licensed under the captive insurance laws or regulations of any state.
(h) Direct earned premium means direct earned premium for all property and casualty insurance issued by any insurer for insurance against all losses, including losses from an act of terrorism, occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
Direct earned premium
means direct earned premium for all property and casualty insurance issued by any insurer for insurance against all losses, including losses from an act of terrorism, occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
(1) State-licensed or admitted insurers. For a state licensed or admitted insurer that reports to the NAIC, direct earned premium is the premium information for property and casualty insurance reported by the insurer on column 2 of the Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement (commonly known as Statutory Page 14).
State-licensed or admitted insurers.
For a state licensed or admitted insurer that reports to the NAIC, direct earned premium is the premium information for property and casualty insurance reported by the insurer on column 2 of the Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement (commonly known as Statutory Page 14).
(i) Premium information as reported to state regulators through the NAIC should be included in the calculation of direct earned premiums for purposes of the Program only to the extent it reflects premiums for property and casualty insurance issued by the insurer against losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
(ii) Premiums for personal property and casualty lines of insurance (insurance primarily designed to cover personal, family or household risk exposures, with the exception of insurance written to insure 1 to 4 family rental dwellings owned for the business purpose of generating income for the property owner), or premiums for any other insurance coverage that does not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance, should be excluded in the calculation of direct earned premiums for purposes of the Program.
(iii) Personal property and casualty lines of insurance coverage that includes incidental coverage for commercial purposes are primarily personal coverage, and therefore premiums may be fully excluded by an insurer from the calculation of direct earned premium. For purposes of this section, commercial coverage is incidental if less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium is attributable to commercial coverage. Property and casualty insurance against losses occurring at locations other than the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act, or other insurance coverage that does not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance, but that includes incidental coverage for commercial risk exposures at such locations, is primarily not commercial, and therefore premiums for such insurance may also be fully excluded by an insurer from the calculation of direct earned premium. For purposes of this section, property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act is incidental if less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium for the insurance policy is attributable to coverage at such locations. Also for purposes of this section, coverage for commercial risk exposures is incidental if it is combined with coverages that otherwise do not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance and less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium for the insurance policy is attributable to the coverage for commercial risk exposures.
(iv) If an insurance policy covers both commercial and personal property and casualty exposures, insurers may allocate the premiums in accordance with the proportion of risk between commercial and personal components in order to ascertain direct earned premium. If a policy includes insurance coverage that meets the definition of property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act, but also includes other coverage, insurers may allocate the premiums in accordance with the proportion of risk attributable to the components in order to ascertain direct earned premium.
(2) Insurers that do not report to NAIC. An insurer that does not report to the NAIC, but that is licensed or admitted by any state (such as certain farm or county mutual insurers), should use the guidance provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section to assist in ascertaining its direct earned premium.
Insurers that do not report to NAIC.
An insurer that does not report to the NAIC, but that is licensed or admitted by any state (such as certain farm or county mutual insurers), should use the guidance provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section to assist in ascertaining its direct earned premium.
(i) Direct earned premium may be ascertained by adjusting data maintained by such insurer or reported by such insurer to its state regulator to reflect a breakdown of premiums for commercial and personal property and casualty exposure risk as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section and, if necessary, re-stated to reflect the accrual method of determining direct earned premium versus direct premium.
(ii) Such an insurer should consider other types of payments that compensate the insurer for risk of loss (contributions, assessments, etc.) as part of its direct earned premium.
(3) Certain eligible surplus line carrier insurers. An eligible surplus line carrier insurer listed on the NAIC Quarterly Listing of Alien Insurers must ascertain its direct earned premium by pricing separately its premium for insurance that meets the definition of property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
Certain eligible surplus line carrier insurers.
An eligible surplus line carrier insurer listed on the NAIC Quarterly Listing of Alien Insurers must ascertain its direct earned premium by pricing separately its premium for insurance that meets the definition of property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
(4) Federally approved insurers. A federally approved insurer, defined under section 102(6)(A)(iii) of the Act, should use a methodology similar to that specified for eligible surplus line carrier insurers in paragraph (h)(3) of this section to calculate its direct earned premium. Such calculation should be adjusted to reflect the limitations on scope of insurance coverage under the Program (i.e., to the extent of Federal approval of property and casualty insurance in connection with maritime, energy or aviation activities).
Federally approved insurers.
A federally approved insurer, defined under section 102(6)(A)(iii) of the Act, should use a methodology similar to that specified for eligible surplus line carrier insurers in paragraph (h)(3) of this section to calculate its direct earned premium. Such calculation should be adjusted to reflect the limitations on scope of insurance coverage under the Program (
i.e.,
to the extent of Federal approval of property and casualty insurance in connection with maritime, energy or aviation activities).
(i) Direct written premium means the premium information for property and casualty insurance that is included by an insurer in column 1 of the Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement or in an equivalent reporting requirement. The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is not included in amounts reported as direct written premium.
Direct written premium
means the premium information for property and casualty insurance that is included by an insurer in column 1 of the Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement or in an equivalent reporting requirement. The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is not included in amounts reported as direct written premium.
(j) Discretionary recoupment amount means such amount of the aggregate Federal share of compensation in excess of the mandatory recoupment amount that the Secretary has determined will be recouped pursuant to section 103(e)(7)(D) of the Act.
Discretionary recoupment amount
means such amount of the aggregate Federal share of compensation in excess of the mandatory recoupment amount that the Secretary has determined will be recouped pursuant to section 103(e)(7)(D) of the Act.
(k) Federal Insurance Office means the Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Federal Insurance Office
means the Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(l) Federal terrorism policy surcharge means the amount established by Treasury under subpart J of this part that is imposed as a policy surcharge on property and casualty insurance policies, expressed as a percentage of the written premium.
Federal terrorism policy surcharge
means the amount established by Treasury under subpart J of this part that is imposed as a policy surcharge on property and casualty insurance policies, expressed as a percentage of the written premium.
(m) Insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount means an amount for a calendar year as calculated under section 103(e)(6) of the Act.
Insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount
means an amount for a calendar year as calculated under section 103(e)(6) of the Act.
(1) For calendar years beginning with 2015 through 2019, such amount is the lesser of the aggregate amount, for all insurers, of insured losses once there has been a Program Trigger Event during the calendar year and:
(i) For calendar year 2015: $29,500,000,000;
(ii) For calendar year 2016: $31,500,000,000;
(iii) For calendar year 2017: $33,500,000,000;
(iv) For calendar year 2018: $35,500,000,000; and
(v) For calendar year 2019: $37,500,000,000.
(2) For calendar years beginning with 2020 and any calendar year thereafter as may be necessary, such amount is the lesser of the aggregate amount, for all insurers, of insured losses once there has been a Program Trigger Event during the calendar year and the annual average of the sum of insurer deductibles for all insurers for the prior 3 years, to be calculated by taking:
(i) The total amount of direct earned premium reported by insurers to Treasury pursuant to § 50.51 in the three calendar years prior to the calendar year in question, and then dividing that figure by three; and
(ii) Multiplying the resulting three-year average figure by 20%.
(3) For calendar year 2020 and each subsequent calendar year, Treasury shall publish in the Federal Register the insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount no later than December 31 of the prior calendar year.
Federal Register
the insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount no later than December 31 of the prior calendar year.
(n) Insured loss. (1) The term insured loss means any loss resulting from an act of terrorism (including an act of war, in the case of workers' compensation) that is covered by primary or excess property and casualty insurance issued by an insurer if the loss:
Insured loss.
(1) The term insured loss means any loss resulting from an act of terrorism (including an act of war, in the case of workers' compensation) that is covered by primary or excess property and casualty insurance issued by an insurer if the loss:
(i) Occurs within the United States;
(ii) Occurs to an air carrier (as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102), or to a United States flag vessel (or a vessel based principally in the United States, on which United States income tax is paid and whose insurance coverage is subject to regulation in the United States), regardless of where the loss occurs; however, to the extent a loss occurs to such an air carrier or vessel outside the United States, the insured loss does not include losses covered by third party insurance contracts that are separate from the insurance coverage provided to the air carrier or vessel; or
(iii) Occurs at the premises of any United States mission.
(2) The term insured loss includes reasonable loss adjustment expenses, incurred by an insurer in connection with insured losses, that are allocated and identified by claim file in insurer records, including expenses incurred in the investigation, adjustment, and defense of claims, but excluding staff salaries, overhead, and other insurer expenses that would have been incurred notwithstanding the insured loss.
(3) The term insured loss does not include:
(i) Punitive or exemplary damages awarded or paid in connection with the Federal cause of action specified in section 107(a)(1) of the Act. The term “punitive or exemplary damages” means damages that are not compensatory but are an award of money made to a claimant solely to punish or deter; or
(ii) Extra-contractual damages awarded against, or paid by, an insurer; or
(iii) Payments by an insurer in excess of policy limits; or
(iv) Amounts paid by a policyholder as required under the terms and conditions of property and casualty insurance issued by an insurer.
(o) Insurer means any entity, including any affiliate of the entity, that meets the following requirements:
Insurer
means any entity, including any affiliate of the entity, that meets the following requirements:
(1)(i) The entity must fall within at least one of the following categories:
(A) It is licensed or admitted to engage in the business of providing primary or excess insurance in any state (including, but not limited to, state licensed captive insurance companies, state licensed or admitted risk retention groups, and state licensed or admitted farm and county mutuals) and, if a joint underwriting association, pooling arrangement, or other similar entity, then the entity must:
(1) Have gone through a process of being licensed or admitted to engage in the business of providing primary or excess insurance that is administered by the state's insurance regulator, which process generally applies to insurance companies or is similar in scope and content to the process applicable to insurance companies;
1
) Have gone through a process of being licensed or admitted to engage in the business of providing primary or excess insurance that is administered by the state's insurance regulator, which process generally applies to insurance companies or is similar in scope and content to the process applicable to insurance companies;
(2) Be generally subject to State insurance regulation, including financial reporting requirements, applicable to insurance companies within the State; and
2
) Be generally subject to State insurance regulation, including financial reporting requirements, applicable to insurance companies within the State; and
(3) Be managed independently from other insurers participating in the program;
3
) Be managed independently from other insurers participating in the program;
(B) It is not licensed or admitted to engage in the business of providing primary or excess insurance in any state, but is an eligible surplus line carrier listed on the NAIC Quarterly Listing of Alien Insurers;
(C) It is approved or accepted for the purpose of offering property and casualty insurance by a Federal agency in connection with maritime, energy, or aviation activity, but only to the extent of such Federal approval of property and casualty insurance coverage offered by the insurer in connection with maritime, energy, or aviation activity;
(D) It is a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund; or
(E) As determined by the Secretary, it falls within any of the classes or types of captive insurers or other self-insurance arrangements by municipalities and other entities.
(ii) If an entity falls within more than one category described in paragraph (o)(1)(i) of this section, the entity is considered to fall within the first category within which it falls for purposes of the program.
(2) The entity must receive direct earned premium, except in the case of:
(i) State residual market insurance entities and state workers' compensation funds, to the extent provided in subpart D of this part; and
(ii) Other classes or types of captive insurers and other self-insurance arrangements by municipalities and other entities to the extent provided for in subpart E of this part.
(3) The entity must meet any other criteria as prescribed by Treasury.
(p) Insurer deductible means:
Insurer deductible
means:
(1) For an insurer that has had a full year of operations during the calendar year immediately preceding the applicable calendar year, the value of an insurer's direct earned premiums during the immediately preceding calendar year, multiplied by 20 percent; and
(2) For an insurer that has not had a full year of operations during the immediately preceding calendar year, the insurer deductible will be based on data for direct earned premiums for the applicable calendar year multiplied by 20 percent. If the insurer does not have a full year of operations during the applicable calendar year, the direct earned premiums for the applicable calendar year will be annualized to determine the insurer deductible.
(q) Mandatory recoupment amount means the difference between the insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount for a calendar year and the uncompensated insured losses during such calendar year.
Mandatory recoupment amount
means the difference between the insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount for a calendar year and the uncompensated insured losses during such calendar year.
(r) NAIC means the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
NAIC
means the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
(s) Person means any individual, business or nonprofit entity (including those organized in the form of a partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or association), trust or estate, or a State or political subdivision of a state or other governmental unit.
Person
means any individual, business or nonprofit entity (including those organized in the form of a partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or association), trust or estate, or a State or political subdivision of a state or other governmental unit.
(t) Professional liability insurance means insurance coverage for liability arising out of the performance of professional or business duties related to a specific occupation, with coverage being tailored to the needs of the specific occupation. Examples include abstracters, accountants, insurance adjusters, architects, engineers, insurance agents and brokers, lawyers, real estate agents, stockbrokers, and veterinarians. For purposes of this definition, professional liability insurance does not include directors and officers liability insurance.
Professional liability insurance
means insurance coverage for liability arising out of the performance of professional or business duties related to a specific occupation, with coverage being tailored to the needs of the specific occupation. Examples include abstracters, accountants, insurance adjusters, architects, engineers, insurance agents and brokers, lawyers, real estate agents, stockbrokers, and veterinarians. For purposes of this definition, professional liability insurance does not include directors and officers liability insurance.
(u) Program means the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program established by the Act.
Program
means the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program established by the Act.
(v) Program Trigger Event means a certified act of terrorism within a calendar year that results in aggregate industry insured losses, either on its own or in combination with any other certified act(s) of terrorism having previously taken place in the same calendar year, exceeding:
Program Trigger Event
means a certified act of terrorism within a calendar year that results in aggregate industry insured losses, either on its own or in combination with any other certified act(s) of terrorism having previously taken place in the same calendar year, exceeding:
(1) $100,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2015 insured losses;
(2) $120,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2016 insured losses;
(3) $140,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2017 insured losses;
(4) $160,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2018 insured losses;
(5) $180,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2019 insured losses; or
(6) $200,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2020 insured losses and with respect to any calendar year thereafter.
(w) Property and casualty insurance means commercial lines of property and casualty insurance, including excess insurance, workers' compensation insurance, and directors and officers liability insurance, and:
Property and casualty insurance
means commercial lines of property and casualty insurance, including excess insurance, workers' compensation insurance, and directors and officers liability insurance, and:
(1) Means commercial lines within only the following lines of insurance from the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14): Line 1—Fire; Line 2.1—Allied Lines; Line 5.1—Commercial Multiple Peril (non-liability portion); Line 5.2—Commercial Multiple Peril (liability portion); Line 8—Ocean Marine; Line 9—Inland Marine; Line 16—Workers' Compensation; Line 17—Other Liability; Line 18—Products Liability; Line 22—Aircraft (all perils); and Line 27—Boiler and Machinery; a stand-alone cyber liability policy falling within Line 17—Other Liability, is property and casualty insurance, so long as it is not otherwise identified for state reporting purposes as a policy that is not property and casualty insurance, such as professional liability insurance.
(2) Property and casualty insurance does not include:
(i) Federal crop insurance issued or reinsured under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.), or any other type of crop or livestock insurance that is privately issued or reinsured (including crop insurance reported under either Line 2.1—Allied Lines or Line 2.2—Multiple Peril (Crop) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
et seq.
), or any other type of crop or livestock insurance that is privately issued or reinsured (including crop insurance reported under either Line 2.1—Allied Lines or Line 2.2—Multiple Peril (Crop) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(ii) Private mortgage insurance (as defined in section 2 of the Homeowners Protection Act of 1998) (12 U.S.C. 4901) or title insurance;
(iii) Financial guaranty insurance issued by monoline financial guaranty insurance corporations;
(iv) Insurance for medical malpractice;
(v) Health or life insurance, including group life insurance;
(vi) Flood insurance provided under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) or earthquake insurance reported under Line 12 of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
et seq.
) or earthquake insurance reported under Line 12 of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(vii) Reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance;
(viii) Commercial automobile insurance, including insurance reported under Lines 19.3 (Commercial Auto No-Fault (personal injury protection)), 19.4 (Other Commercial Auto Liability) and 21.2 (Commercial Auto Physical Damage) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(ix) Burglary and theft insurance, including insurance reported under Line 26 (Burglary and Theft) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(x) Surety insurance, including insurance reported under Line 24 (Surety) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(xi) Professional liability insurance as defined in paragraph (t) of this section; or
(xii) Farm owners multiple peril insurance, including insurance reported under Line 3 (Farmowners Multiple Peril) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14).
(x) Reciprocal insurer means an insurer organized under relevant state law as a reciprocal or interinsurance exchange.
Reciprocal insurer
means an insurer organized under relevant state law as a reciprocal or interinsurance exchange.
(y) Secretary means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(z) Small insurer means an insurer (or an affiliated group of insurers in the case of affiliates within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section) whose policyholder surplus for the immediately preceding year (as reported on its Annual Statement for state regulatory purposes at Page 3, Line 37, Column 1, or as calculated in similar fashion by participating insurers that do not file an Annual Statement) is less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year and whose direct earned premium for the preceding year is also less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year. An insurer that has not had a full year of operations during the immediately preceding calendar year is a small insurer if its policyholder surplus in the current year is less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year. A captive insurer is not a small insurer, regardless of the size of its policyholder surplus or direct earned premium.
Small insurer
means an insurer (or an affiliated group of insurers in the case of affiliates within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section) whose policyholder surplus for the immediately preceding year (as reported on its Annual Statement for state regulatory purposes at Page 3, Line 37, Column 1, or as calculated in similar fashion by participating insurers that do not file an Annual Statement) is less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year and whose direct earned premium for the preceding year is also less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year. An insurer that has not had a full year of operations during the immediately preceding calendar year is a small insurer if its policyholder surplus in the current year is less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year. A captive insurer is not a small insurer, regardless of the size of its policyholder surplus or direct earned premium.
(aa) State means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, each of the United States Virgin Islands, and any territory or possession of the United States.
State
means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, each of the United States Virgin Islands, and any territory or possession of the United States.
(bb) Surcharge means the Federal terrorism policy surcharge as defined in paragraph (l) of this section.
Surcharge
means the Federal terrorism policy surcharge as defined in paragraph (l) of this section.
(cc) Surcharge effective date means the date established by Treasury that begins the assessment period.
Surcharge effective date
means the date established by Treasury that begins the assessment period.
(dd) Treasury means the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Treasury
means the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(ee) Uncompensated insured losses means the aggregate amount of insured losses of all insurers in a calendar year, once there has been a Program Trigger Event, that is not compensated by the Federal Government because such losses:
Uncompensated insured losses
means the aggregate amount of insured losses of all insurers in a calendar year, once there has been a Program Trigger Event, that is not compensated by the Federal Government because such losses:
(1) Are within the insurer deductibles of insurers, or
(2) Are within the portions of losses in excess of insurer deductibles that are not compensated through payments made as a result of claims for the Federal share of compensation.
(ff) United States means the several states, and includes the territorial sea and the continental shelf of the United States, as those terms are defined in the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (18 U.S.C. 2280 and 2281).
United States
means the several states, and includes the territorial sea and the continental shelf of the United States, as those terms are defined in the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (18 U.S.C. 2280 and 2281).
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 62452, Nov. 15, 2019; 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.5   Rule of construction for dates.

Unless otherwise expressly provided in the regulation, any date in these regulations is intended to be applied so that the day begins at 12:01 a.m. and ends at midnight on that date.

§ 50.6   Special rules for Interim Guidance safe harbors.

(a) An insurer will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of the Act to the extent the insurer reasonably relied on Interim Guidance prior to the effective date of applicable regulations.
(b) For purposes of this section, any Interim Guidance will be posted by Treasury at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.7   Procedure for requesting determinations of controlling influence.

(a) An insurer or insurers not having control over another insurer under § 50.4(c)(2)(i) or (ii) may make a written submission to Treasury to rebut a presumption of controlling influence under § 50.4(c)(4)(i) through (iv) or otherwise to request a determination of controlling influence. Such submissions shall be made to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office, Department of the Treasury, Room 1410, 1500 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20220. The submission should be entitled, “Controlling Influence Submission,” and should provide the full name and address of the submitting insurer(s) and the name, title, address and telephone number of the designated contact person(s) for such insurer(s).
(b) Treasury will review submissions and determine whether Treasury needs additional written or orally presented information. In its discretion, Treasury may schedule a date, time, and place for an oral presentation by the insurer(s).
(c) An insurer or insurers must provide all relevant facts and circumstances concerning the relationship(s) between or among the affected insurers and the control factors in § 50.4(c)(4)(i) through (iv); and must explain in detail any basis for why the insurer believes that no controlling influence exists (if a presumption is being rebutted) in light of the particular facts and circumstances, as well as the Act's language, structure and purpose. Any confidential business or trade secret information submitted to Treasury should be clearly marked. Treasury will handle any subsequent request for information designated by an insurer as confidential business or trade secret information in accordance with Treasury's Freedom of Information Act regulations at 31 CFR part 1.
(d) Treasury will review and consider the insurer submission and other relevant facts and circumstances. Unless otherwise extended by Treasury, within 60 days after receipt of a complete submission, including any additional information requested by Treasury, and including any oral presentation, Treasury will issue a final determination of whether one insurer has a controlling influence over another insurer for purposes of the Program. The determination shall set forth Treasury's basis for its determination.
(Approved by the Office of Management & Budget under control number 1505-0190)

§ 50.8   Procedure for requesting general interpretations of statute.

Persons actually or potentially affected by the Act or regulations in this Part may request an interpretation of the Act or regulations by writing to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office, Room 1410, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20220, giving a detailed explanation of the facts and circumstances and the reason why an interpretation is needed. A requester should segregate and mark any confidential business or trade secret information clearly. Treasury in its discretion will provide written responses to requests for interpretation. Treasury reserves the right to decline to provide a response in any case. Except in the case of any confidential business or trade secret information, Treasury will make written requests for interpretations and responses publicly available at the Treasury Department Library, on the Treasury Web site, or through other means as soon as practicable after the response has been provided. Treasury will handle any subsequent request for information that had been designated by a requester as confidential business or trade secret information in accordance with Treasury's Freedom of Information Act regulations at 31 CFR part 1.

Subpart B—Disclosures as Conditions for Federal Payment


§ 50.10   General disclosure requirements.

(a) Content of disclosure. As a condition for Federal payments under section 103(b) of the Act, the Act requires that an insurer provide clear and conspicuous disclosure to the policyholder of:
Content of disclosure.
As a condition for Federal payments under section 103(b) of the Act, the Act requires that an insurer provide clear and conspicuous disclosure to the policyholder of:
(1) The premium charged for insured losses covered by the Program; and
(2) The Federal share of compensation for insured losses under the Program.
(b) Form and timing of disclosure. The disclosure required by the Act must be made on a separate line item in the policy, at the time of offer and of renewal of the policy.
Form and timing of disclosure.
The disclosure required by the Act must be made on a separate line item in the policy, at the time of offer and of renewal of the policy.

§ 50.11   Definition.

For purposes of this Subpart, unless the context indicates otherwise, the term “disclosure” or “disclosures” refers to the disclosure described in section 103(b)(2) of the Act and § 50.10. The term “cap disclosure” refers to the disclosure required by section 103(b)(3) of the Act and § 50.15.

§ 50.12   Clear and conspicuous disclosure.

(a) General. Whether a disclosure is clear and conspicuous depends on the totality of the facts and circumstances of the disclosure. See § 50.16 for model forms.
General.
Whether a disclosure is clear and conspicuous depends on the totality of the facts and circumstances of the disclosure. See § 50.16 for model forms.
(b) Description of premium. An insurer may describe the premium charged for insured losses covered by the Program as a portion or percentage of a policy premium, if consistent with standard business practice and provided that the amount of policy premium or the method of determining the policy premium is also stated. An insurer may not describe the premium in a manner that is misleading in the context of the Program, such as by characterizing the premium as a “surcharge.”
Description of premium.
An insurer may describe the premium charged for insured losses covered by the Program as a portion or percentage of a policy premium, if consistent with standard business practice and provided that the amount of policy premium or the method of determining the policy premium is also stated. An insurer may not describe the premium in a manner that is misleading in the context of the Program, such as by characterizing the premium as a “surcharge.”
(c) Method of disclosure. Subject to § 50.10(b), an insurer may provide disclosures using normal business practices, including forms and methods of communication used to communicate similar policyholder information to policyholders.
Method of disclosure.
Subject to § 50.10(b), an insurer may provide disclosures using normal business practices, including forms and methods of communication used to communicate similar policyholder information to policyholders.
(d) Use of producer. If an insurer normally communicates with a policyholder through an insurance producer or other intermediary, an insurer may provide disclosures through such producer or other intermediary. If an insurer elects to make the disclosures through an insurance producer or other intermediary, the insurer remains responsible for ensuring that the disclosures are provided by the insurance producer or other intermediary to policyholders in accordance with the Act.
Use of producer.
If an insurer normally communicates with a policyholder through an insurance producer or other intermediary, an insurer may provide disclosures through such producer or other intermediary. If an insurer elects to make the disclosures through an insurance producer or other intermediary, the insurer remains responsible for ensuring that the disclosures are provided by the insurance producer or other intermediary to policyholders in accordance with the Act.
(e) Demonstration of compliance. An insurer may demonstrate that it has satisfied the requirement to provide clear and conspicuous disclosure as described in § 50.10 through use of appropriate systems and normal business practices that demonstrate a practice of compliance.
Demonstration of compliance.
An insurer may demonstrate that it has satisfied the requirement to provide clear and conspicuous disclosure as described in § 50.10 through use of appropriate systems and normal business practices that demonstrate a practice of compliance.
(f) Certification of compliance. An insurer must certify that it has complied with the requirement to provide disclosure to the policyholder on all policies that form the basis for any claim that is submitted by an insurer for Federal payment under the Program.
Certification of compliance.
An insurer must certify that it has complied with the requirement to provide disclosure to the policyholder on all policies that form the basis for any claim that is submitted by an insurer for Federal payment under the Program.

§ 50.13   Offer and renewal.

An insurer is deemed to be in compliance with the requirement of providing disclosure “at the time of offer and of renewal of the policy” under § 50.10(b) if the insurer makes the disclosure no later than the time the insurer first formally offers to provide insurance coverage or renew a policy for a current policyholder.

§ 50.14   Separate line item.

An insurer is deemed to be in compliance with the requirement of providing disclosure on a “separate line item in the policy” under § 50.10(b) if the insurer makes the disclosure:
(a) On the declarations page of the policy;
(b) Elsewhere within the policy itself; or
(c) In any rider or endorsement, or other document that is made a part of the policy.

§ 50.15   Cap disclosure.

(a) General. Under section 103(e)(2) of the Act, if the aggregate insured losses exceed $100,000,000,000 during any calendar year, the Secretary shall not make any payment for any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000, and no insurer that has met its insurer deductible shall be liable for the payment of any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000.
General.
Under section 103(e)(2) of the Act, if the aggregate insured losses exceed $100,000,000,000 during any calendar year, the Secretary shall not make any payment for any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000, and no insurer that has met its insurer deductible shall be liable for the payment of any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000.
(b) Other requirements. As a condition for Federal payments under section 103(b) of the Act, an insurer must provide clear and conspicuous disclosure to the policyholder of the existence of the $100,000,000,000 cap under section 103(e)(2). The cap disclosure must be made at the time of offer, purchase, and renewal of the policy.
Other requirements.
As a condition for Federal payments under section 103(b) of the Act, an insurer must provide clear and conspicuous disclosure to the policyholder of the existence of the $100,000,000,000 cap under section 103(e)(2). The cap disclosure must be made at the time of offer, purchase, and renewal of the policy.
(c) Offer, purchase, and renewal. An insurer is deemed to be in compliance with the requirement of providing disclosure “at the time of offer, purchase, and renewal of the policy” under § 50.15(b) if the insurer:
Offer, purchase, and renewal.
An insurer is deemed to be in compliance with the requirement of providing disclosure “at the time of offer, purchase, and renewal of the policy” under § 50.15(b) if the insurer:
(1) Makes the disclosure no later than the time the insurer first formally offers to provide insurance coverage or renew a policy for a current policyholder; and
(2) If terrorism risk coverage is purchased, the insurer makes clear and conspicuous reference back to that disclosure, as well as the final terms of terrorism insurance coverage, at the time the transaction is completed.
(d) Other applicable rules. The cap disclosure is covered by the rules in § 50.12(a), (c), (d), (e), and (f) (relating to clear and conspicuous disclosure).
Other applicable rules.
The cap disclosure is covered by the rules in § 50.12(a), (c), (d), (e), and (f) (relating to clear and conspicuous disclosure).

§ 50.16   Use of model forms.

(a) General. An insurer that is required to make the disclosure under § 50.10(b) or § 50.15(b) is deemed to be in compliance with the disclosure requirements if the insurer uses NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 or NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2, as appropriate.
General.
An insurer that is required to make the disclosure under § 50.10(b) or § 50.15(b) is deemed to be in compliance with the disclosure requirements if the insurer uses NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 or NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2, as appropriate.
(b) Not exclusive means of compliance. An insurer is not required to use NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 or NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2 to satisfy the disclosure requirements. An insurer may use other means to comply with the disclosure requirements, as long as the disclosures comport with the requirements of the Act.
Not exclusive means of compliance.
An insurer is not required to use NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 or NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2 to satisfy the disclosure requirements. An insurer may use other means to comply with the disclosure requirements, as long as the disclosures comport with the requirements of the Act.
(c) Definitions. For purposes of this section, references to NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 and NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2 refer to such forms as revised in March 2020, or as subsequently modified by the NAIC, provided Treasury has stated that usage by insurers of the subsequently modified forms is deemed to satisfy the disclosure requirements of the Act and the insurer uses the most current forms, so approved by Treasury, that are available at the time of disclosure. These forms may be found on the Treasury website at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, references to NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 and NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2 refer to such forms as revised in March 2020, or as subsequently modified by the NAIC, provided Treasury has stated that usage by insurers of the subsequently modified forms is deemed to satisfy the disclosure requirements of the Act and the insurer uses the most current forms, so approved by Treasury, that are available at the time of disclosure. These forms may be found on the Treasury website at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.17   General disclosure requirements for State residual market insurance entities and State workers' compensation funds.

(a) Residual market mechanism disclosure. A state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund may provide the disclosures required by this subpart B to policyholders using normal business practices, including forms and methods of communication used to communicate similar information to policyholders. The disclosures may be made by the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund itself, the individual insurers that participate in the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund, or its servicing carriers. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the disclosure requirements have been met rests with the insurer filing a claim under the Program.
Residual market mechanism disclosure.
A state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund may provide the disclosures required by this subpart B to policyholders using normal business practices, including forms and methods of communication used to communicate similar information to policyholders. The disclosures may be made by the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund itself, the individual insurers that participate in the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund, or its servicing carriers. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the disclosure requirements have been met rests with the insurer filing a claim under the Program.
(b) Other requirements. Except as provided in this section, all other disclosure requirements set out in this subpart B apply to state residual insurance market entities and state workers' compensation funds.
Other requirements.
Except as provided in this section, all other disclosure requirements set out in this subpart B apply to state residual insurance market entities and state workers' compensation funds.

Subpart C—Mandatory Availability


§ 50.20   General mandatory availability requirements.

(a) General requirements. Under section 103(c) of the Act, an insurer must:
General requirements.
Under section 103(c) of the Act, an insurer must:
(1) Make available, in all of its property and casualty insurance policies, coverage for insured losses; and
(2) Make available property and casualty insurance coverage for insured losses that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism.
(b) Compliance through 2027. Under section 108(a) of the Act, an insurer must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section through calendar year 2027.
Compliance through 2027.
Under section 108(a) of the Act, an insurer must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section through calendar year 2027.
(c) Beyond 2027. Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section and § 50.22(a), property and casualty insurance coverage for insured losses does not have to be made available beyond December 31, 2027, even if the policy period of insurance coverage for losses from events other than acts of terrorism extends beyond that date.
Beyond 2027.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section and § 50.22(a), property and casualty insurance coverage for insured losses does not have to be made available beyond December 31, 2027, even if the policy period of insurance coverage for losses from events other than acts of terrorism extends beyond that date.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.21   Make available.

(a) General. The requirement to make available coverage as provided in § 50.20 applies at the time an insurer makes the initial offer of coverage as well as at the time an insurer makes an initial offer of renewal of an existing policy.
General.
The requirement to make available coverage as provided in § 50.20 applies at the time an insurer makes the initial offer of coverage as well as at the time an insurer makes an initial offer of renewal of an existing policy.
(b) Offer consistent with definition of act of terrorism. An insurer must make available coverage for insured losses in a policy of property and casualty insurance consistent with the definition of an act of terrorism as defined in § 50.4(b).
Offer consistent with definition of act of terrorism.
An insurer must make available coverage for insured losses in a policy of property and casualty insurance consistent with the definition of an act of terrorism as defined in § 50.4(b).
(c) Changes negotiated subsequent to initial offer. If an insurer satisfies the requirement to make available coverage as described in § 50.20 by first making an offer with coverage for insured losses that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism, which the policyholder or prospective policyholder declines, the insurer may negotiate with the policyholder or prospective policyholder an option of partial coverage for insured losses at a lower amount of coverage if permitted by any applicable state law. An insurer is not required by the Act to offer partial coverage if the policyholder or prospective policyholder declines full coverage. See § 50.23.
Changes negotiated subsequent to initial offer.
If an insurer satisfies the requirement to make available coverage as described in § 50.20 by first making an offer with coverage for insured losses that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism, which the policyholder or prospective policyholder declines, the insurer may negotiate with the policyholder or prospective policyholder an option of partial coverage for insured losses at a lower amount of coverage if permitted by any applicable state law. An insurer is not required by the Act to offer partial coverage if the policyholder or prospective policyholder declines full coverage. See § 50.23.
(d) Demonstrations of compliance. If an insurer makes an offer of insurance but no contract of insurance is concluded, the insurer may demonstrate that it has satisfied the requirement to make available coverage as described in § 50.20 through use of appropriate systems and normal business practices that demonstrate a practice of compliance.
Demonstrations of compliance.
If an insurer makes an offer of insurance but no contract of insurance is concluded, the insurer may demonstrate that it has satisfied the requirement to make available coverage as described in § 50.20 through use of appropriate systems and normal business practices that demonstrate a practice of compliance.

§ 50.22   No material difference from other coverage.

(a) Terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations. As provided in § 50.20(a)(2), an insurer must offer coverage for insured losses arising from an act of terrorism that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations (including deductibles) applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism. For purposes of this requirement, “terms” excludes price.
Terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations.
As provided in § 50.20(a)(2), an insurer must offer coverage for insured losses arising from an act of terrorism that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations (including deductibles) applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism. For purposes of this requirement, “terms” excludes price.
(b) Limitations on types of risk. An insurer is not required to cover risks that it typically excludes or does not write to satisfy the requirement to make available coverage for losses resulting from an act of terrorism that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism. For example, if an insurer does not cover all types of risks, either because the insurer is outside of direct state regulatory oversight, or because a state permits certain exclusions for certain types of losses, such as nuclear, biological, or chemical events, then the insurer is not required to make such coverage available.
Limitations on types of risk.
An insurer is not required to cover risks that it typically excludes or does not write to satisfy the requirement to make available coverage for losses resulting from an act of terrorism that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism. For example, if an insurer does not cover all types of risks, either because the insurer is outside of direct state regulatory oversight, or because a state permits certain exclusions for certain types of losses, such as nuclear, biological, or chemical events, then the insurer is not required to make such coverage available.

§ 50.23   Applicability of State law requirements.

(a) General. After satisfying the requirement to make available coverage for insured losses that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism, if coverage is rejected an insurer may then offer coverage that is on different terms, amounts, or coverage limitations, as long as such an offer does not violate any applicable state law requirements.
General.
After satisfying the requirement to make available coverage for insured losses that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism, if coverage is rejected an insurer may then offer coverage that is on different terms, amounts, or coverage limitations, as long as such an offer does not violate any applicable state law requirements.
(b) Examples. (1) If an insurer subject to state regulation first makes available coverage in accordance with § 50.20 and the state has a requirement that an insurer offer full coverage without any exclusion, then the requirement would continue to apply and the insurer may not subsequently offer less than full coverage or coverage with exclusions.
Examples.
(1) If an insurer subject to state regulation first makes available coverage in accordance with § 50.20 and the state has a requirement that an insurer offer full coverage without any exclusion, then the requirement would continue to apply and the insurer may not subsequently offer less than full coverage or coverage with exclusions.
(2) If an insurer subject to state regulation first makes available coverage in accordance with § 50.20 and the state permits certain exclusions or allows for other limitations, or an insurance policy is not governed by state law requirements, then the insurer may subsequently offer limited coverage or coverage with exclusions.

Subpart D—State Residual Market Insurance Entities; State Workers' Compensation Funds


§ 50.30   General participation requirements.

(a) Insurers. As defined in § 50.4(o), all state residual market insurance entities and state workers' compensation funds are insurers under the Program even if such entities do not receive direct earned premiums.
Insurers.
As defined in § 50.4(o), all state residual market insurance entities and state workers' compensation funds are insurers under the Program even if such entities do not receive direct earned premiums.
(b) Mandatory participation. State residual market insurance entities and State workers' compensation funds are mandatory participants in the Program subject to the rules issued in this Subpart.
Mandatory participation.
State residual market insurance entities and State workers' compensation funds are mandatory participants in the Program subject to the rules issued in this Subpart.
(c) Identification. Treasury maintains a list of state residual market insurance entities and state workers' compensation funds at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program. Procedures for providing comments and updates to that list are posted with the list.
Identification.
Treasury maintains a list of state residual market insurance entities and state workers' compensation funds at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
Procedures for providing comments and updates to that list are posted with the list.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.31   Entities that do not share profits and losses with private sector insurers.

(a) Treatment. A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund that does not share profits and losses with a private sector insurer is deemed to be a separate insurer under the Program.
Treatment.
A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund that does not share profits and losses with a private sector insurer is deemed to be a separate insurer under the Program.
(b) Premium calculation. A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund that is deemed to be a separate insurer should follow the guidelines specified in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2) for the purposes of calculating the appropriate measure of direct earned premium.
Premium calculation.
A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund that is deemed to be a separate insurer should follow the guidelines specified in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2) for the purposes of calculating the appropriate measure of direct earned premium.

§ 50.32   Entities that share profits and losses with private sector insurers.

(a) Treatment. A State residual market insurance entity or a State workers' compensation fund that shares profits and losses with a private sector insurer is deemed not to be a separate insurer under the Program.
Treatment.
A State residual market insurance entity or a State workers' compensation fund that shares profits and losses with a private sector insurer is deemed not to be a separate insurer under the Program.
(b) Premium and loss calculation. A state residual market insurance entity or a State workers' compensation fund that is deemed not to be a separate insurer should continue to report, in accordance with normal business practices, to each participant insurer its share of premium income and insured losses, which shall then be included respectively in the participant insurer's direct earned premium or insured loss calculations.
Premium and loss calculation.
A state residual market insurance entity or a State workers' compensation fund that is deemed not to be a separate insurer should continue to report, in accordance with normal business practices, to each participant insurer its share of premium income and insured losses, which shall then be included respectively in the participant insurer's direct earned premium or insured loss calculations.

§ 50.33   Allocation of premium income associated with entities that do share profits and losses with private sector insurers.

(a) Servicing carriers. For purposes of this subpart, a servicing carrier is an insurer that enters into an agreement to place and service insurance contracts for a state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund and to cede premiums associated with such insurance contracts to the State residual market insurance entity or State workers' compensation fund. Premiums written by a servicing carrier on behalf of a state residual market insurance entity or State workers' compensation fund that are ceded to such an entity or fund shall not be included as direct earned premium (as described in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2)) of the servicing carrier.
Servicing carriers.
For purposes of this subpart, a servicing carrier is an insurer that enters into an agreement to place and service insurance contracts for a state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund and to cede premiums associated with such insurance contracts to the State residual market insurance entity or State workers' compensation fund. Premiums written by a servicing carrier on behalf of a state residual market insurance entity or State workers' compensation fund that are ceded to such an entity or fund shall not be included as direct earned premium (as described in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2)) of the servicing carrier.
(b) Participant insurers. For purposes of this Subpart, a participant insurer is an insurer that shares in the profits and losses of a state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund. Premium income that is distributed to or assumed by participant insurers in a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund (whether directly or as quota share insurers of risks written by servicing carriers), shall be included in direct earned premium (as described in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2)) of the participant insurer.
Participant insurers.
For purposes of this Subpart, a participant insurer is an insurer that shares in the profits and losses of a state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund. Premium income that is distributed to or assumed by participant insurers in a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund (whether directly or as quota share insurers of risks written by servicing carriers), shall be included in direct earned premium (as described in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2)) of the participant insurer.

Subpart E [Reserved]


Subpart F—Data Collection


§ 50.50   General.

Treasury may request from insurers such data and information as may be reasonably required in support of Treasury's administration of the Program.

§ 50.51   Annual data reporting.

(a) General. No later than May 15 of each calendar year, all insurers shall provide specified data and information respecting their Program participation.
General.
No later than May 15 of each calendar year, all insurers shall provide specified data and information respecting their Program participation.
(b) Scope. Except as otherwise provided by Treasury, the information to be provided shall address: the lines of property and casualty insurance subject to the Program, the premiums earned for terrorism risk insurance within those lines and for those lines generally, the geographical location of exposures covered under terrorism risk insurance, the pricing of terrorism risk insurance, the take-up rate for terrorism risk insurance, the amount of private reinsurance obtained by participating insurers in connection with such policies, and other matters concerning the Program as may be identified by Treasury.
Scope.
Except as otherwise provided by Treasury, the information to be provided shall address: the lines of property and casualty insurance subject to the Program, the premiums earned for terrorism risk insurance within those lines and for those lines generally, the geographical location of exposures covered under terrorism risk insurance, the pricing of terrorism risk insurance, the take-up rate for terrorism risk insurance, the amount of private reinsurance obtained by participating insurers in connection with such policies, and other matters concerning the Program as may be identified by Treasury.
(c) Method of reporting. (1) Treasury will promulgate forms defining the specific data and information that each insurer must submit and make these forms available on its Web site. Treasury may adopt different data reporting forms for different types of insurers that participate in the Program, which modify the requested information by each different category of participating insurer based upon the manner and scope of the participation of those insurers in the Program. Each insurer shall submit the required data and information by electronic submission through the forms and data portal(s) identified on Treasury's Web site. All data and information provided as part of such electronic submission shall be certified by the insurer as a full and true statement of the information provided to the best of its knowledge, information and belief.
Method of reporting.
(1) Treasury will promulgate forms defining the specific data and information that each insurer must submit and make these forms available on its Web site. Treasury may adopt different data reporting forms for different types of insurers that participate in the Program, which modify the requested information by each different category of participating insurer based upon the manner and scope of the participation of those insurers in the Program. Each insurer shall submit the required data and information by electronic submission through the forms and data portal(s) identified on Treasury's Web site. All data and information provided as part of such electronic submission shall be certified by the insurer as a full and true statement of the information provided to the best of its knowledge, information and belief.
(2) The data and information required to be provided under this subsection may be modified annually by Treasury. Any modification shall be made during the prior calendar year, and Treasury shall provide insurers at least 90 days before requiring collection of any newly specified data or information.
(d) Supplemental requests. Treasury may issue supplemental requests, to some or all participating insurers, in connection with the annual data request provided for under this section, to the extent Treasury determines that it requires additional or clarifying information in order to analyze the effectiveness of the Program. Insurers shall respond to any such supplemental requests as may be made within the timeframe and in the manner specified by Treasury.
Supplemental requests.
Treasury may issue supplemental requests, to some or all participating insurers, in connection with the annual data request provided for under this section, to the extent Treasury determines that it requires additional or clarifying information in order to analyze the effectiveness of the Program. Insurers shall respond to any such supplemental requests as may be made within the timeframe and in the manner specified by Treasury.
(e) Small insurer exception. The Secretary may exempt a small insurer that meets the definition in § 50.4(z) from any or all data calls under this section, or may modify the requests as applicable to such small insurer.
Small insurer exception.
The Secretary may exempt a small insurer that meets the definition in § 50.4(z) from any or all data calls under this section, or may modify the requests as applicable to such small insurer.

§ 50.52   Small insurer data.

(a) General. The Secretary may collect information relating to small insurers, as defined in § 50.4(z), in order to conduct a study of small insurers participating in the Program, and identify any competitive challenges small insurers face in the terrorism risk insurance marketplace.
General.
The Secretary may collect information relating to small insurers, as defined in § 50.4(z), in order to conduct a study of small insurers participating in the Program, and identify any competitive challenges small insurers face in the terrorism risk insurance marketplace.
(b) Scope. Information collected concerning small insurers may include information necessary for Treasury to identify:
Scope.
Information collected concerning small insurers may include information necessary for Treasury to identify:
(1) Changes to the market share, premium volume, and policyholder surplus of small insurers relative to large insurers;
(2) How the property and casualty insurance market for terrorism risk differs between small and large insurers, and whether such a difference exists within other perils;
(3) The impact on small insurers of the Program's mandatory availability requirement under section 103(c) of the Act;
(4) The effect on small insurers of increasing the trigger amount for the Program under section 103(e)(1)(B) of the Act;
(5) The availability and cost of private reinsurance for small insurers; and
(6) The impact that state workers compensation laws have on small insurers and workers compensation carriers in the terrorism risk insurance marketplace.

§ 50.53   Collection of claims data.

(a) General. Subsequent to any certification by the Secretary of an act of terrorism, insurers shall report to Treasury information respecting insured losses arising from the act of terrorism.
General.
Subsequent to any certification by the Secretary of an act of terrorism, insurers shall report to Treasury information respecting insured losses arising from the act of terrorism.
(b) Contents of periodic reporting. Reporting under this subsection shall be by a form prescribed by Treasury and made available on the Treasury Web site, which provides basic information about each claim established by an insurer that involves or potentially involves an insured loss. Information to be reported for any claims by or against a policyholder shall identify paid and reserved amounts associated with the claim. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the form required by this subsection shall be submitted by a single insurer designated within the affiliated group, which shall report on a consolidated basis. Data and information reported under this subsection will include:
Contents of periodic reporting.
Reporting under this subsection shall be by a form prescribed by Treasury and made available on the Treasury Web site, which provides basic information about each claim established by an insurer that involves or potentially involves an insured loss. Information to be reported for any claims by or against a policyholder shall identify paid and reserved amounts associated with the claim. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the form required by this subsection shall be submitted by a single insurer designated within the affiliated group, which shall report on a consolidated basis. Data and information reported under this subsection will include:
(1) A listing of each claim by name of insured, catastrophe code, line of business, and in the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the particular insurer or insurers within the group associated with each claim;
(2) Amounts paid, both loss and loss adjustment expenses, in connection with the claim as of the effective date of the report; and
(3) Amounts reserved, both loss and loss adjustment expenses, in connection with the claim as of the effective date of the report.
(c) Timing of reporting. To the extent that an insurer has established one or more claims that it believes involve insured losses arising from an act of terrorism, the insurer shall submit its first report within 60 days of establishing the first of such claims. An updated report shall be submitted each month thereafter, reporting data as of the prior month, until all claims arising from the act of terrorism have been resolved.
Timing of reporting.
To the extent that an insurer has established one or more claims that it believes involve insured losses arising from an act of terrorism, the insurer shall submit its first report within 60 days of establishing the first of such claims. An updated report shall be submitted each month thereafter, reporting data as of the prior month, until all claims arising from the act of terrorism have been resolved.
(d) Interrelationship with other reporting requirements. The reporting requirements under this subsection are independent of the Initial Notice of Deductible Erosion, Initial Certification of Loss, and Supplementary Certifications of Loss requirements in subpart H.
Interrelationship with other reporting requirements.
The reporting requirements under this subsection are independent of the Initial Notice of Deductible Erosion, Initial Certification of Loss, and Supplementary Certifications of Loss requirements in subpart H.
(e) Other sources of information. Subsequent to any certification of an act of terrorism, Treasury may also seek information respecting loss estimates and projections from one or more organizations that are not participants in the Program, such as state insurance regulators, insurance modeling organizations, rating agencies, insurance brokers and producers, and insurance data aggregators. A data request may also be directed to insurers identified in connection with such inquiries. An insurer subject to such a data call shall respond to this request within the time frame specified in the request.
Other sources of information.
Subsequent to any certification of an act of terrorism, Treasury may also seek information respecting loss estimates and projections from one or more organizations that are not participants in the Program, such as state insurance regulators, insurance modeling organizations, rating agencies, insurance brokers and producers, and insurance data aggregators. A data request may also be directed to insurers identified in connection with such inquiries. An insurer subject to such a data call shall respond to this request within the time frame specified in the request.

§ 50.54   Handling of data.

(a) General. All nonpublic information submitted to the Secretary under subparts F and G of this part shall be considered proprietary information and shall:
General.
All nonpublic information submitted to the Secretary under subparts F and G of this part shall be considered proprietary information and shall:
(1) Be handled and stored by Treasury in an appropriately secure manner;
(2) Be considered, where appropriate, to be trade secrets or commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential; and
(3) Not be publicly released in any unaggregated form in which a consumer, policyholder, or insurer is identifiable.
(b) Use of insurance statistical aggregator. To the extent Treasury utilizes an insurance statistical aggregator in connection with any data collection under subparts F and G, such insurance statistical aggregator shall keep any nonpublic information that it collects confidential, consistent with the requirements of this section.
Use of insurance statistical aggregator.
To the extent Treasury utilizes an insurance statistical aggregator in connection with any data collection under subparts F and G, such insurance statistical aggregator shall keep any nonpublic information that it collects confidential, consistent with the requirements of this section.
(c) Confidentiality. (1) The submission of any non-publicly available data and information to the Secretary under subparts F and G of this part, and the sharing of any non-publicly available data with or by the Secretary among other Federal agencies, the state insurance regulatory authorities, or any other entities shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege or immunity arising under Federal or state law (including the rules of any Federal or state court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject.
Confidentiality.
(1) The submission of any non-publicly available data and information to the Secretary under subparts F and G of this part, and the sharing of any non-publicly available data with or by the Secretary among other Federal agencies, the state insurance regulatory authorities, or any other entities shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege or immunity arising under Federal or state law (including the rules of any Federal or state court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject.
(2) Any requirement under Federal or state law to the extent otherwise applicable, or any requirement pursuant to a written agreement in effect between the original source of any non-publicly available data or information and the source of such data or information to the Secretary, regarding privacy or confidentiality of any data or information in the possession of the source to the Secretary, shall continue to apply to such data or information after the data or information has been provided pursuant to this subpart.
(3) Any data or information obtained by the Secretary under subparts F or G of this part may be made available to state insurance regulatory authorities, individually or collectively through an information-sharing agreement that:
(i) Shall comply with applicable Federal law; and
(ii) Shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege or immunity under Federal or state law (including any privilege referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the rules of any Federal or State court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject.
(4) Section 552 of title 5, United States Code, including any exceptions thereunder, shall apply to any data or information submitted under this Subpart by an insurer or affiliate of an insurer.

Subpart G—Certification


§ 50.60   Certification.

(a) Certification decision. The Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is responsible for determining whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.
Certification decision.
The Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is responsible for determining whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.
(b) Timeline for eligibility. An act is eligible for certification as an act of terrorism at the end of the following timeline:
Timeline for eligibility.
An act is eligible for certification as an act of terrorism at the end of the following timeline:
(1) The Secretary commences review of whether an act satisfies the definition in § 50.4(b);
(2) Within 30 days of the Secretary commencing review, Treasury publishes the notice required by § 50.61(a). During such review, the schedule of public notifications in § 50.61(b) shall apply, as appropriate;
(3) The Secretary's review finds that the act satisfies the elements for certification under § 50.4(b)(1)(i) through (iv), and that it is not otherwise precluded from certification by § 50.4(b)(2); and
(4) Within 30 days or as soon as otherwise practicable after the review identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section concludes that the act satisfies the necessary criteria, the Secretary consults with the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Homeland Security pursuant to section 102(1)(A) of the Act.
(c) Other consultation. Nothing in this section shall prevent the Secretary from consulting and coordinating with the Attorney General of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or any other government official prior to the consultation identified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
Other consultation.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the Secretary from consulting and coordinating with the Attorney General of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or any other government official prior to the consultation identified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(d) Finality. Any decision by the Secretary to certify, or determination not to certify, an act as an act of terrorism under this subpart shall be final, and shall not be subject to judicial review.
Finality.
Any decision by the Secretary to certify, or determination not to certify, an act as an act of terrorism under this subpart shall be final, and shall not be subject to judicial review.
(e) Nondelegation. The Secretary may not delegate or designate to any other officer, employee, or person, the determination of whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.
Nondelegation.
The Secretary may not delegate or designate to any other officer, employee, or person, the determination of whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.

§ 50.61   Public communication.

(a) Initial notification. After the Secretary commences review of whether an act may satisfy the definition in § 50.4(b), Treasury shall publish a notice in the Federal Register within 30 days of the Secretary commencing review notifying the public that the act is under review for certification as an act of terrorism. Treasury may also announce that an act is not under review for certification.
Initial notification.
After the Secretary commences review of whether an act may satisfy the definition in § 50.4(b), Treasury shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
within 30 days of the Secretary commencing review notifying the public that the act is under review for certification as an act of terrorism. Treasury may also announce that an act is not under review for certification.
(b) Update notification. Not later than 30 days following the publication of a notice under paragraph (a) of this section that an act is under review for certification, and not later than every 60 days thereafter until the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall publish a notice in the Federal Register notifying the public whether the act is still under review for certification as an act of terrorism.
Update notification.
Not later than 30 days following the publication of a notice under paragraph (a) of this section that an act is under review for certification, and not later than every 60 days thereafter until the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
notifying the public whether the act is still under review for certification as an act of terrorism.
(c) Contents of notification. Nothing in this section shall require Treasury to provide any information other than whether the act is under review for certification as an act of terrorism (or is no longer under such review) or shall limit Treasury from providing further information of relevance.
Contents of notification.
Nothing in this section shall require Treasury to provide any information other than whether the act is under review for certification as an act of terrorism (or is no longer under such review) or shall limit Treasury from providing further information of relevance.
(d) Rules of construction. Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the Secretary from certifying or determining not to certify an act as an act of terrorism before notifying the public that the act is under review for certification. If, in the discretion of the Secretary, circumstances relating to an act render timely notification under this section by Treasury impracticable, Treasury shall provide the notification as soon as practicable, in a manner the Secretary determines is appropriate.
Rules of construction.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the Secretary from certifying or determining not to certify an act as an act of terrorism before notifying the public that the act is under review for certification. If, in the discretion of the Secretary, circumstances relating to an act render timely notification under this section by Treasury impracticable, Treasury shall provide the notification as soon as practicable, in a manner the Secretary determines is appropriate.
(e) Nonbinding decision. A notification made under this section shall not be construed to be a final determination by the Secretary of whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.
Nonbinding decision.
A notification made under this section shall not be construed to be a final determination by the Secretary of whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.

§ 50.62   Certification data collection.

(a) General. (1) The Secretary, when evaluating an act for certification as an act of terrorism, may at any time direct one or more insurers to submit information regarding projected and actual losses in connection with an act and any other information the Secretary determines appropriate. The information sought by the Secretary shall be specified in the data request, and any insurer subject to the data request shall respond to the request within the time frame specified by the Secretary at the time of the request. The data requested may include actual loss reserves established by insurers in connection with the act under consideration, loss estimates generated by insurers in connection with the act under consideration which have not yet been established as actual loss reserves, and information respecting an insurer's property and casualty exposures in a particular geographic area associated with the act under consideration.
General.
(1) The Secretary, when evaluating an act for certification as an act of terrorism, may at any time direct one or more insurers to submit information regarding projected and actual losses in connection with an act and any other information the Secretary determines appropriate. The information sought by the Secretary shall be specified in the data request, and any insurer subject to the data request shall respond to the request within the time frame specified by the Secretary at the time of the request. The data requested may include actual loss reserves established by insurers in connection with the act under consideration, loss estimates generated by insurers in connection with the act under consideration which have not yet been established as actual loss reserves, and information respecting an insurer's property and casualty exposures in a particular geographic area associated with the act under consideration.
(2) An insurer not required by Treasury to submit information under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may voluntarily submit information to the Secretary as specified in public notifications issued by Treasury.
(b) Other sources of information. The Secretary may request information with respect to loss estimates and likely affected insurers from organizations, including state insurance regulators, insurance modeling organizations, rating agencies, insurance brokers and producers, and insurance data aggregators.
Other sources of information.
The Secretary may request information with respect to loss estimates and likely affected insurers from organizations, including state insurance regulators, insurance modeling organizations, rating agencies, insurance brokers and producers, and insurance data aggregators.

§ 50.63   Notification of certification determination.

(a) Public notification. Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall publish a statement and submit a notice to the Federal Register notifying the public of the Secretary's decision.
Public notification.
Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall publish a statement and submit a notice to the
Federal Register
notifying the public of the Secretary's decision.
(b) Insurance supervisor notification. Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall notify in writing any relevant supervisory officials of the Secretary's decision.
Insurance supervisor notification.
Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall notify in writing any relevant supervisory officials of the Secretary's decision.
(c) Congressional notification. Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall notify in writing the President of the U.S. Senate and the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives of the Secretary's decision.
Congressional notification.
Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall notify in writing the President of the U.S. Senate and the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives of the Secretary's decision.
(d) Rule of construction. If, in the discretion of the Secretary, circumstances relating to an act render timely notification by Treasury under this section impracticable, Treasury shall provide the notification as soon as practicable, in a manner the Secretary determines is appropriate.
Rule of construction.
If, in the discretion of the Secretary, circumstances relating to an act render timely notification by Treasury under this section impracticable, Treasury shall provide the notification as soon as practicable, in a manner the Secretary determines is appropriate.

Subpart H—Claims Procedures


§ 50.70   Federal share of compensation.

(a) General. (1) Treasury will pay the Federal share of compensation for insured losses as provided in section 103 of the Act once a Certification of Loss required by § 50.73 is deemed sufficient. The Federal share of compensation under the Program shall be:
General.
(1) Treasury will pay the Federal share of compensation for insured losses as provided in section 103 of the Act once a Certification of Loss required by § 50.73 is deemed sufficient. The Federal share of compensation under the Program shall be:
(i) 85 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2015;
(ii) 84 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2016;
(iii) 83 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2017;
(iv) 82 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2018;
(v) 81 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2019; and
(vi) 80 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2020 and any calendar year thereafter.
(2) The percentages in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are subject to any adjustments described in § 50.71 and to the cap of $100 billion as provided in section 103(e)(2) of the Act.
(b) Program Trigger amounts. Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section or anything in this subpart to the contrary, Federal compensation will not be paid by Treasury unless the aggregate industry insured losses resulting from one or more certified acts of terrorism exceed the following amounts:
Program Trigger amounts.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section or anything in this subpart to the contrary, Federal compensation will not be paid by Treasury unless the aggregate industry insured losses resulting from one or more certified acts of terrorism exceed the following amounts:
(1) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2015: $100 million;
(2) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2016: $120 million;
(3) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2017: $140 million;
(4) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2018: $160 million;
(5) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2019: $180 million;
(6) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2020 and any calendar year thereafter: $200 million.
(c) Conditions for payment of Federal share. Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, Treasury shall pay the appropriate amount of the Federal share of compensation for an insured loss to an insurer upon a determination that:
Conditions for payment of Federal share.
Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, Treasury shall pay the appropriate amount of the Federal share of compensation for an insured loss to an insurer upon a determination that:
(1) The insurer is an entity, including an affiliate thereof, that meets the requirements of § 50.4(o);
(2) The insurer's insured losses, as defined in § 50.4(n) and limited by paragraph (d) of this section (including the allocated dollar value of the insurer's proportionate share of insured losses from a state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund as described in § 50.33), have exceeded its insurer deductible as defined in § 50.4(p);
(3) The insurer has paid or is prepared to pay an insured loss, based on a filed claim for the insured loss;
(4) Neither the insurer's claim for Federal payment nor any underlying claim for an insured loss is fraudulent, collusive, made in bad faith, dishonest or otherwise designed to circumvent the purposes of the Act and regulations;
(5) The insurer has provided a clear and conspicuous disclosure as required by §§ 50.10 through 50.14 and a cap disclosure as required by § 50.15;
(6) The insurer offered coverage for insured losses and the offer was accepted by the insured prior to the act which results in the insured loss;
(7) The insurer took all steps reasonably necessary to properly and carefully investigate the insured loss and otherwise processed the insured loss using practices appropriate for the business of insurance;
(8) The insured loss is within the scope of coverage issued by the insurer under the terms and conditions of one or more policies for commercial property and casualty insurance as defined in § 50.4(w); and
(9) The procedures specified in this Subpart have been followed and all conditions for payment have been met.
(d) Adjustments. Treasury may subsequently adjust, including requiring repayment of, any payment made under paragraph (c) of this section in accordance with its authority under the Act.
Adjustments.
Treasury may subsequently adjust, including requiring repayment of, any payment made under paragraph (c) of this section in accordance with its authority under the Act.
(e) Suspension of payment for other insured losses. Upon a determination by Treasury that an insurer has failed to meet any of the requirements for payment specified in paragraph (c) of this section for a particular insured loss, Treasury may suspend payment of the Federal share of compensation for all other insured losses of the insurer pending investigation and audit of the insurer's insured losses.
Suspension of payment for other insured losses.
Upon a determination by Treasury that an insurer has failed to meet any of the requirements for payment specified in paragraph (c) of this section for a particular insured loss, Treasury may suspend payment of the Federal share of compensation for all other insured losses of the insurer pending investigation and audit of the insurer's insured losses.
(f) Aggregate industry losses. Treasury will determine the amount of aggregate industry insured losses resulting from a certified act of terrorism. If aggregate industry insured losses in a calendar year resulting from one or more certified acts of terrorism exceed the applicable Program Trigger amounts specified in paragraph (b) of this section, Treasury will publish a document in the Federal Register of a Program Trigger Event.
Aggregate industry losses.
Treasury will determine the amount of aggregate industry insured losses resulting from a certified act of terrorism. If aggregate industry insured losses in a calendar year resulting from one or more certified acts of terrorism exceed the applicable Program Trigger amounts specified in paragraph (b) of this section, Treasury will publish a document in the
Federal Register
of a Program Trigger Event.

§ 50.71   Adjustments to the Federal share of compensation.

(a) Aggregate amount of insured losses. The aggregate amount of insured losses of an insurer in a calendar year used to calculate the Federal share of compensation shall be reduced by any amounts recovered by the insurer as salvage or subrogation for its insured losses in the calendar year.
Aggregate amount of insured losses.
The aggregate amount of insured losses of an insurer in a calendar year used to calculate the Federal share of compensation shall be reduced by any amounts recovered by the insurer as salvage or subrogation for its insured losses in the calendar year.
(b) Amount of Federal share of compensation. The Federal share of compensation shall be adjusted as follows:
Amount of Federal share of compensation.
The Federal share of compensation shall be adjusted as follows:
(1) No excess recoveries. For any calendar year, the sum of the Federal share of compensation paid by Treasury to an insurer and the insurer's recoveries for insured losses from other sources shall not be greater than the insurer's aggregate amount of insured losses for acts of terrorism in that calendar year. Amounts recovered for insured losses in excess of an insurer's aggregate amount of insured losses for acts of terrorism in a calendar year shall be repaid to Treasury within 45 days after the end of the month in which total recoveries of the insurer, from all sources, become excess. For purposes of this paragraph, amounts recovered from a reinsurer pursuant to an agreement whereby the reinsurer's right to any excess recovery has priority over the rights of Treasury shall not be considered a recovery subject to repayment to Treasury.
No excess recoveries.
For any calendar year, the sum of the Federal share of compensation paid by Treasury to an insurer and the insurer's recoveries for insured losses from other sources shall not be greater than the insurer's aggregate amount of insured losses for acts of terrorism in that calendar year. Amounts recovered for insured losses in excess of an insurer's aggregate amount of insured losses for acts of terrorism in a calendar year shall be repaid to Treasury within 45 days after the end of the month in which total recoveries of the insurer, from all sources, become excess. For purposes of this paragraph, amounts recovered from a reinsurer pursuant to an agreement whereby the reinsurer's right to any excess recovery has priority over the rights of Treasury shall not be considered a recovery subject to repayment to Treasury.
(2) Reduction of amount payable. The Federal share of compensation for insured losses under the Program shall be reduced by the amount of other compensation provided by other Federal programs to an insured or a third party to the extent such other compensation duplicates the insurance indemnification for those insured losses.
Reduction of amount payable.
The Federal share of compensation for insured losses under the Program shall be reduced by the amount of other compensation provided by other Federal programs to an insured or a third party to the extent such other compensation duplicates the insurance indemnification for those insured losses.
(i) Other Federal program compensation. For purposes of this section, compensation provided by other Federal programs for insured losses means compensation that is provided by Federal programs established for the purpose of compensating persons for losses in the event of emergencies, disasters, acts of terrorism, or similar events. Compensation provided by Federal programs for insured losses excludes benefit or entitlement payments, such as those made under the Social Security Act, under laws administered by the Secretary of Veteran Affairs, railroad retirement benefit payments, and other similar types of benefit payments.
Other Federal program compensation.
For purposes of this section, compensation provided by other Federal programs for insured losses means compensation that is provided by Federal programs established for the purpose of compensating persons for losses in the event of emergencies, disasters, acts of terrorism, or similar events. Compensation provided by Federal programs for insured losses excludes benefit or entitlement payments, such as those made under the Social Security Act, under laws administered by the Secretary of Veteran Affairs, railroad retirement benefit payments, and other similar types of benefit payments.
(ii) Insurer due diligence. With respect to any underlying claim for insured losses, each insurer shall inquire of all involved policyholders, insureds, and claimants whether the person receiving insurance proceeds for an insured loss has received, expects to receive, or is entitled to receive compensation from another Federal program for the insured loss, and if so, the source and the amount of the compensation received or expected. The response, source, and such amounts shall be reported with each underlying claim on the form specified in § 50.73(b)(1).
Insurer due diligence.
With respect to any underlying claim for insured losses, each insurer shall inquire of all involved policyholders, insureds, and claimants whether the person receiving insurance proceeds for an insured loss has received, expects to receive, or is entitled to receive compensation from another Federal program for the insured loss, and if so, the source and the amount of the compensation received or expected. The response, source, and such amounts shall be reported with each underlying claim on the form specified in § 50.73(b)(1).

§ 50.72   Notice of deductible erosion.

Each insurer shall submit to Treasury a Notice on a form prescribed by Treasury whenever the insurer's aggregate insured losses (including reserves for “incurred but not reported” losses) within a calendar year exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the insurer's deductible as specified in § 50.4(p). Insurers are advised that the form for the Notice of Deductible Erosion will include an initial estimate of aggregate insured losses for the calendar year, the amount of the insurer deductible, and an estimate of the Federal share of compensation for the insurer's aggregate insured losses. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the Notice will include the name and address of a single designated insurer within the affiliated group that will serve as the single point of contact for the purpose of providing loss and compliance certifications as required in § 50.73 and for receiving, disbursing, and distributing payments of the Federal share of compensation in accordance with § 50.74. An insurer, at its option, may elect to include with its Notice of Deductible Erosion the certification of direct earned premium required by § 50.73(b)(3).

§ 50.73   Loss certifications.

(a) General. When an insurer has paid aggregate insured losses that exceed its insurer deductible for a calendar year, the insurer may make claim upon Treasury for the payment of the Federal share of compensation for its insured losses. The insurer shall file an Initial Certification of Loss, on a form prescribed by Treasury, and thereafter such Supplementary Certifications of Loss, on a form prescribed by Treasury, as may be necessary to receive payment for the Federal share of compensation for its insured losses.
General.
When an insurer has paid aggregate insured losses that exceed its insurer deductible for a calendar year, the insurer may make claim upon Treasury for the payment of the Federal share of compensation for its insured losses. The insurer shall file an Initial Certification of Loss, on a form prescribed by Treasury, and thereafter such Supplementary Certifications of Loss, on a form prescribed by Treasury, as may be necessary to receive payment for the Federal share of compensation for its insured losses.
(b) Initial certification of loss. An insurer shall use its best efforts to file with the Program the Initial Certification of Loss within 45 days following the last calendar day of the month when an insurer has paid aggregate insured losses that exceed its insurer deductible. The Initial Certification of Loss will include the following:
Initial certification of loss.
An insurer shall use its best efforts to file with the Program the Initial Certification of Loss within 45 days following the last calendar day of the month when an insurer has paid aggregate insured losses that exceed its insurer deductible. The Initial Certification of Loss will include the following:
(1) Basic information, on a form prescribed by Treasury, about each insured loss paid (or to be paid pursuant to § 50.73(b)(2)(i)) by the insurer. The form will include:
(i) A listing of each insured loss paid (or to be paid pursuant to § 50.73(b)(2)(i)) by the insurer by catastrophe code and line of business;
(ii) The total amount of reinsurance recovered from other sources;
(iii) A calculation of the aggregate insured losses sustained by the insurer above its insurer deductible for the calendar year; and
(iv) The amount the insurer claims as the Federal share of compensation for its aggregate insured losses.
(2) A certification that the insurer is in compliance with the provisions of section 103(b) of the Act and this part, including certifications that:
(i) The underlying insured losses reported pursuant to § 50.73(b)(1) either: Have been paid by the insurer; or will be paid by the insurer upon receipt of an advance payment of the Federal share of compensation as soon as possible, consistent with the insurer's normal business practices, but not longer than five business days after receipt of the Federal share of compensation;
(ii) The underlying claims for insured losses were filed by persons who suffered an insured loss, or by persons acting on behalf of such persons;
(iii) The underlying claims for insured losses were processed in accordance with appropriate business practices and the procedures specified in this subpart;
(iv) The insurer has complied with the disclosure requirements of §§ 50.10 through 50.14, and the cap disclosure requirement of § 50.15, for each underlying insured loss that is included in the amount of the insurer's aggregate insured losses; and
(v) The insurer has complied with the mandatory availability requirements of subpart C of this part.
(3) A certification of the amount of the insurer's direct earned premium, together with the calculation of its insurer deductible (provided this certification was not submitted previously with the Notice of Deductible Erosion).
(4) A certification that the insurer will disburse payment of the Federal share of compensation in accordance with this Subpart.
(5) A certification that if Treasury has determined a Pro Rata Loss Percentage (PRLP) (see § 50.112), the insurer has complied with applying the PRLP to insured loss payments, where required.
Pro Rata
Loss Percentage (PRLP) (see § 50.112), the insurer has complied with applying the PRLP to insured loss payments, where required.
(c) Supplementary certifications of loss. If the total amount of the Federal share of compensation due an insurer for insured losses under the Act has not been determined at the time an Initial Certification of Loss has been filed, the insurer shall file monthly, or on a schedule otherwise determined by Treasury, Supplementary Certifications of Loss updating the amount of the Federal share of compensation due for the insurer's insured losses. Supplementary Certifications of Loss will include the following:
Supplementary certifications of loss.
If the total amount of the Federal share of compensation due an insurer for insured losses under the Act has not been determined at the time an Initial Certification of Loss has been filed, the insurer shall file monthly, or on a schedule otherwise determined by Treasury, Supplementary Certifications of Loss updating the amount of the Federal share of compensation due for the insurer's insured losses. Supplementary Certifications of Loss will include the following:
(1) A form as described in § 50.73(b)(1); and
(2) A certification as described in § 50.73(b)(2).
(d) Supplementary information. In addition to the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, Treasury may require such additional supporting documentation as required to ascertain the Federal share of compensation for the insured losses of any insurer.
Supplementary information.
In addition to the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, Treasury may require such additional supporting documentation as required to ascertain the Federal share of compensation for the insured losses of any insurer.
(e) State Residual Market Insurance Entities and State Workers' Compensation Funds. A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund described in § 50.32 shall provide the Certifications of Loss described in § 50.73(b) and (c) for all of its insured losses to each participating insurer at the time it provides the allocated dollar value of the participating insurer's proportionate share of insured losses. In addition, at such time the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund shall provide the certification described in § 50.73(b)(2) to Treasury. Participating insurers shall treat the allocated dollar value of their proportionate share of insured losses from a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund as an insured loss for the purpose of their own reporting to Treasury in seeking the Federal share of compensation.
State Residual Market Insurance Entities and State Workers' Compensation Funds.
A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund described in § 50.32 shall provide the Certifications of Loss described in § 50.73(b) and (c) for all of its insured losses to each participating insurer at the time it provides the allocated dollar value of the participating insurer's proportionate share of insured losses. In addition, at such time the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund shall provide the certification described in § 50.73(b)(2) to Treasury. Participating insurers shall treat the allocated dollar value of their proportionate share of insured losses from a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund as an insured loss for the purpose of their own reporting to Treasury in seeking the Federal share of compensation.

§ 50.74   Payment of Federal share of compensation.

(a) Timing. Treasury will promptly pay to an insurer the Federal share of compensation due the insurer for its insured losses. Payment shall be made in such installments and on such conditions as determined by the Treasury to be appropriate. Any overpayments by Treasury of the Federal share of compensation will be offset from future payments to the insurer or returned to Treasury within 45 days.
Timing.
Treasury will promptly pay to an insurer the Federal share of compensation due the insurer for its insured losses. Payment shall be made in such installments and on such conditions as determined by the Treasury to be appropriate. Any overpayments by Treasury of the Federal share of compensation will be offset from future payments to the insurer or returned to Treasury within 45 days.
(b) Payment process. Payment of the Federal Share of Compensation for insured losses will be made to the insurer designated on the Notice of Deductible Erosion required by § 50.72. An insurer that requests payment of the Federal Share of Compensation for insured losses must receive payment through electronic funds transfer. The insurer must establish either an account for reimbursement as described in paragraph (c) of this section (if the insurer only seeks reimbursement) or a segregated account as described in paragraph (d) of this section (if the insurer seeks advance payments or a combination of advance payments and reimbursement). Applicable procedures will be posted at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program or otherwise will be made publicly available.
Payment process.
Payment of the Federal Share of Compensation for insured losses will be made to the insurer designated on the Notice of Deductible Erosion required by § 50.72. An insurer that requests payment of the Federal Share of Compensation for insured losses must receive payment through electronic funds transfer. The insurer must establish either an account for reimbursement as described in paragraph (c) of this section (if the insurer only seeks reimbursement) or a segregated account as described in paragraph (d) of this section (if the insurer seeks advance payments or a combination of advance payments and reimbursement). Applicable procedures will be posted at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program
or otherwise will be made publicly available.
(c) Account for reimbursement. An insurer shall designate an account for the receipt of reimbursement of the Federal share of compensation at an institution eligible to receive payments through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network.
Account for reimbursement.
An insurer shall designate an account for the receipt of reimbursement of the Federal share of compensation at an institution eligible to receive payments through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network.
(d) Segregated account for advance payments. An insurer that seeks advance payments of the Federal share of compensation as certified according to § 50.73(b)(2)(i) shall establish a segregated account into which Treasury will make advance payments as well as reimbursements to the insurer.
Segregated account for advance payments.
An insurer that seeks advance payments of the Federal share of compensation as certified according to § 50.73(b)(2)(i) shall establish a segregated account into which Treasury will make advance payments as well as reimbursements to the insurer.
(1) Definition of segregated account. For purposes of this section, a segregated account is an interest-bearing separate account established by an insurer at a financial institution eligible to receive payments through the ACH network. Such an account is limited to the purposes of:
Definition of segregated account.
For purposes of this section, a segregated account is an interest-bearing separate account established by an insurer at a financial institution eligible to receive payments through the ACH network. Such an account is limited to the purposes of:
(i) Receiving payments of the Federal share of compensation;
(ii) Disbursing payments to insureds and claimants; and
(iii) Transferring payments to the insurer or affiliated insurers for insured losses reported as already paid.
(2) Remittance of interest. All interest earned on advance payments in the segregated account must be remitted at least quarterly to Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service or as otherwise prescribed in applicable procedures.
Remittance of interest.
All interest earned on advance payments in the segregated account must be remitted at least quarterly to Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service or as otherwise prescribed in applicable procedures.
(e) Denial or withholding of advance payment. Treasury may deny or withhold advance payments of the Federal share of compensation to an insurer if Treasury determines that the insurer has not properly disbursed previous advances of the Federal share of compensation or otherwise has not complied with the requirements for advance payment as provided in this Subpart.
Denial or withholding of advance payment.
Treasury may deny or withhold advance payments of the Federal share of compensation to an insurer if Treasury determines that the insurer has not properly disbursed previous advances of the Federal share of compensation or otherwise has not complied with the requirements for advance payment as provided in this Subpart.
(f) Affiliated group. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, Treasury will make payment of the Federal share of compensation for the insured losses of the affiliated group to the insurer designated in the Notice of Deductible Erosion to receive payment on behalf of the affiliated group. The designated insurer receiving payment from Treasury must distribute payment to affiliated insurers in a manner that ensures that each insurer in the affiliated group is compensated for its share of insured losses, taking into account a reasonable and fair allocation of the group deductible among affiliated insurers. Upon payment of the Federal share of compensation to the designated insurer, Treasury's payment obligation to the insurers in the affiliated group with respect to any insured losses covered is discharged to the extent of the payment.
Affiliated group.
In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, Treasury will make payment of the Federal share of compensation for the insured losses of the affiliated group to the insurer designated in the Notice of Deductible Erosion to receive payment on behalf of the affiliated group. The designated insurer receiving payment from Treasury must distribute payment to affiliated insurers in a manner that ensures that each insurer in the affiliated group is compensated for its share of insured losses, taking into account a reasonable and fair allocation of the group deductible among affiliated insurers. Upon payment of the Federal share of compensation to the designated insurer, Treasury's payment obligation to the insurers in the affiliated group with respect to any insured losses covered is discharged to the extent of the payment.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.75   Determination of affiliations.

For the purposes of this subpart, an insurer's affiliates for any calendar year shall be determined by the circumstances existing on the date of the act which is the Program Trigger Event for that calendar year.

§ 50.76   Final netting.

(a) General. Pursuant to section 103(e)(4) of the Act, the Secretary shall have sole discretion to determine the time at which claims relating to any insured loss or act of terrorism shall become final.
General.
Pursuant to section 103(e)(4) of the Act, the Secretary shall have sole discretion to determine the time at which claims relating to any insured loss or act of terrorism shall become final.
(b) Final Netting Date. The Secretary may determine a Final Netting Date for a calendar year, which for purposes of this part is the date on or before which an insurer must report to Treasury on the insurer's Certifications of Loss (both Initial Certification of Loss and any Supplemental Certifications of Loss) all insured losses that have been reported by its policyholders for the calendar year.
Final Netting Date.
The Secretary may determine a Final Netting Date for a calendar year, which for purposes of this part is the date on or before which an insurer must report to Treasury on the insurer's Certifications of Loss (both Initial Certification of Loss and any Supplemental Certifications of Loss) all insured losses that have been reported by its policyholders for the calendar year.
(1) Criteria for Final Netting Date. The establishment of a Final Netting Date will be based on factors and considerations including:
Criteria for Final Netting Date.
The establishment of a Final Netting Date will be based on factors and considerations including:
(i) Amounts of case reserves reported by insurers to Treasury for open underlying insured losses;
(ii) The rate at which claims for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses are being made by insurers to Treasury;
(iii) The rate at which new underlying insured losses are being added by insurers to their Supplementary Certifications of Loss and reported;
(iv) The predominant lines of business for which underlying insured losses are being reported;
(v) Tort and contract statutes of limitations relevant to insured losses and the manner in which they are being applied by the Federal courts;
(vi) Common business practices;
(vii) Issues that are delaying final resolution of insured losses;
(viii) The application of the liability limitations and procedures under the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 441 et seq.) that may affect final resolution of insured losses;
et seq.
) that may affect final resolution of insured losses;
(ix) Issues related to the cap on annual liability for insurer losses, including whether a projection that the cap on annual liability will be reached in connection with any calendar year indicates that no Final Netting Date should be set for that calendar year;
(x) Treasury's claims administration costs; and
(xi) [Reserved]
(xii) Such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate to take into account.
(2) Notice of Final Netting Date. Treasury shall announce and publish in the Federal Register notice of a proposed Final Netting Date and its application to a specific calendar year, and will solicit comments from the public regarding the appropriateness of the proposed Final Netting Date. After receipt and evaluation of comments respecting its proposed Final Netting Date, Treasury will publish in the Federal Register a Final Netting Date, which is at least 180 days after the date of publication. The Secretary's determination of a Final Netting Date is final and not subject to judicial review.
Notice of Final Netting Date.
Treasury shall announce and publish in the
Federal Register
notice of a proposed Final Netting Date and its application to a specific calendar year, and will solicit comments from the public regarding the appropriateness of the proposed Final Netting Date. After receipt and evaluation of comments respecting its proposed Final Netting Date, Treasury will publish in the
Federal Register
a Final Netting Date, which is at least 180 days after the date of publication. The Secretary's determination of a Final Netting Date is final and not subject to judicial review.
(c) Post-Final Netting Date claims. After the Final Netting Date, insurers may only make further claims for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses by submission of Supplemental Certifications of Loss with updated information on underlying insured losses previously reported to Treasury. Such updated information may reflect a decision by a court of competent jurisdiction concerning a limitation of liability under the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002. In the case of workers' compensation losses, the insurer may provide updated information based on the number of workers' compensation claimants previously reported. An insurer may not report any new underlying insured losses, or increased workers' compensation loss amounts based on an increase in the number of workers' compensation claimants, to Treasury after a Final Netting Date, except as provided in this section.
Post-Final Netting Date claims.
After the Final Netting Date, insurers may only make further claims for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses by submission of Supplemental Certifications of Loss with updated information on underlying insured losses previously reported to Treasury. Such updated information may reflect a decision by a court of competent jurisdiction concerning a limitation of liability under the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002. In the case of workers' compensation losses, the insurer may provide updated information based on the number of workers' compensation claimants previously reported. An insurer may not report any new underlying insured losses, or increased workers' compensation loss amounts based on an increase in the number of workers' compensation claimants, to Treasury after a Final Netting Date, except as provided in this section.
(d) Commutation. A commutation is the payment by Treasury of a lump sum present value of future payments to an insurer in lieu of making payments in the future, as provided in this section.
Commutation.
A commutation is the payment by Treasury of a lump sum present value of future payments to an insurer in lieu of making payments in the future, as provided in this section.
(1) In lieu of continued submission of Supplemental Certifications of Loss after the Final Netting Date as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, Treasury may require, or consider an insurer's request for, a commutation of an insurer's future claims for the Federal share of compensation based on estimates for the underlying insured losses reported to Treasury on or before the Final Netting Date. The payment by Treasury of a final commuted amount to an insurer will discharge Treasury from all future liabilities to the insurer for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses for the applicable calendar year. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the requirements of § 50.74(f) apply, and payment of the final commuted amount to the designated insurer of the affiliated group discharges Treasury's payment obligation to the insurers in the affiliated group for insured losses for the applicable calendar year.
(2) If future claims are to be commuted, Treasury may require additional information from the insurer, including an insurer's justification for a final payment amount with necessary actuarial factors and methodology, and pertinent information regarding the insurer's business relationships and other reinsurance recoverables. Insurers will be required to justify discount and other factors from which final payment amounts are derived. If Treasury notifies an insurer of a requirement to submit additional information to inform its commutation decision, the insurer will be provided (depending upon the complexity of the material sought) no less than 90 days from the date of notification to submit material required in the notice. If the insurer fails to provide the requested information, it will forfeit the right to future payments from Treasury. Treasury will evaluate such information in order to determine a final payment amount or (if applicable) an amount to be repaid to Treasury. Treasury may determine that it will not consider commutation until it has completed an audit of an insurer's insured losses pursuant to the authority set forth in subpart I of these regulations.
(3) Payments of commuted amounts are not considered to be advance payments requiring a segregated account as described in § 50.74(d).
(4) Notwithstanding § 50.70(d), a payment by Treasury of a final commuted amount to an insurer is final unless:
(i) Treasury is put on notice that an insurer's claim was fraudulent or that other conditions for Federal payment were not met, in which case the insurer will be required to repay amounts that were not due; or
(ii) The exception in paragraph (e) of this section applies, in which case Treasury may make additional payments for insured losses, but only under the conditions described in paragraph (e).
(e) Exception. If within one year after the Final Netting Date, and regardless of commutation, an insurer has additional underlying reported insured losses that, in the absence of a Final Netting Date, would result in an increase of the Federal share of compensation to that insurer by 20% of the total amount already paid to that insurer, the insurer may request Treasury to allow those underlying insured losses to be submitted as part of a certification of loss. Under such circumstances and provided that all other conditions for payment have been met, Treasury may reopen or extend the insurer's claim for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses for the pertinent calendar year.
Exception.
If within one year after the Final Netting Date, and regardless of commutation, an insurer has additional underlying reported insured losses that, in the absence of a Final Netting Date, would result in an increase of the Federal share of compensation to that insurer by 20% of the total amount already paid to that insurer, the insurer may request Treasury to allow those underlying insured losses to be submitted as part of a certification of loss. Under such circumstances and provided that all other conditions for payment have been met, Treasury may reopen or extend the insurer's claim for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses for the pertinent calendar year.

Subpart I—Audit and Investigative Procedures


§ 50.80   Audit authority.

The Secretary of the Treasury, or an authorized representative, shall have, upon reasonable notice, access to all books, documents, papers and records of an insurer that are pertinent to amounts paid to the insurer as the Federal share of compensation for insured losses, or pertinent to any Federal terrorism policy surcharge that is imposed pursuant to subpart J of this part, for the purposes of investigation, confirmation, audit, and examination.

§ 50.81   Recordkeeping.

(a) Each insurer that seeks payment of a Federal share of compensation under subpart H of this part shall retain such records as are necessary to fully disclose all material matters pertinent to insured losses and the Federal share of compensation sought under the Program, including, but not limited to, records regarding premiums and insured losses for all commercial property and casualty insurance issued by the insurer and information relating to any adjustment in the amount of the Federal share of compensation payable. Insurers shall maintain detailed records for not less than five (5) years from the termination dates of all reinsurance agreements involving property and casualty insurance subject to the Act. Records relating to premiums shall be retained and available for review for not less than three (3) years following the conclusion of the policy year. Records relating to underlying claims shall be retained for not less than five (5) years following the final adjustment of the claim.
(b) Each insurer that collects a Federal terrorism policy surcharge as required by subpart J of this part shall retain records related to such surcharge, including records of the property and casualty insurance premiums subject to the surcharge, the amount of the surcharge imposed on each policy, aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharges collected, and aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharges remitted to Treasury during each assessment period. Such records shall be retained and kept available for review for not less than three (3) years following the conclusion of the assessment period or settlement of accounts with Treasury, whichever is later.

§ 50.82   Civil penalties.

(a) General. The Secretary may assess a civil monetary penalty, in an amount not exceeding the amount specified under § 50.83, against any insurer that the Secretary determines, on the record after opportunity for a hearing:
General.
The Secretary may assess a civil monetary penalty, in an amount not exceeding the amount specified under § 50.83, against any insurer that the Secretary determines, on the record after opportunity for a hearing:
(1) Has failed to charge, collect, or remit the Federal terrorism policy surcharge under subpart J;
(2) Has intentionally provided to Treasury erroneous information regarding premium or loss amounts;
(3) Submits to Treasury fraudulent claims under the Program for insured losses;
(4) Has failed to provide any disclosures or other information required by Treasury; or
(5) Has otherwise failed to comply with provisions of the Act or these regulations.
(b) Recovery of amount in dispute. A penalty under this section for any failure to pay, charge, collect, or remit amounts in accordance with the Act or under these regulations shall be in addition to any such amounts recovered by Treasury.
Recovery of amount in dispute.
A penalty under this section for any failure to pay, charge, collect, or remit amounts in accordance with the Act or under these regulations shall be in addition to any such amounts recovered by Treasury.
(c) Procedure. Treasury shall notify in writing any insurer that it believes has committed one or more of the acts identified in paragraph (a) of this section. In that notification, Treasury shall identify the act or acts that it believes has been violated, and its basis for that belief, and shall set a schedule for further proceedings which shall include:
Procedure.
Treasury shall notify in writing any insurer that it believes has committed one or more of the acts identified in paragraph (a) of this section. In that notification, Treasury shall identify the act or acts that it believes has been violated, and its basis for that belief, and shall set a schedule for further proceedings which shall include:
(1) The opportunity for a written submission by the insurer that provides all relevant facts and circumstances concerning the alleged conduct, including any information that the insurer wishes Treasury to consider in connection with the alleged conduct; and
(2) A hearing on the record, unless waived by the insurer, during which Treasury and the insurer may present further information respecting the conduct in question.
(d) Other remedies preserved. Treasury's assessment and collection of a civil monetary penalty under this section shall be in addition and without prejudice to any other civil remedies or criminal penalties that may arise on account of the conduct in question under any other laws or regulations of the United States.
Other remedies preserved.
Treasury's assessment and collection of a civil monetary penalty under this section shall be in addition and without prejudice to any other civil remedies or criminal penalties that may arise on account of the conduct in question under any other laws or regulations of the United States.

§ 50.83   Adjustment of civil monetary penalty amount.

(a) Inflation adjustment. Any penalty under the Act and these regulations may not exceed the greater of $1,741,100 and, in the case of any failure to pay, charge, collect or remit amounts in accordance with the Act or these regulations such amount in dispute.
Inflation adjustment.
Any penalty under the Act and these regulations may not exceed the greater of $1,741,100 and, in the case of any failure to pay, charge, collect or remit amounts in accordance with the Act or these regulations such amount in dispute.
(b) Annual adjustment. The maximum penalty amount that may be assessed under this section will be adjusted in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, by January 15 of each year and the updated amount will be posted in the Federal Register and on the Treasury website at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
Annual adjustment.
The maximum penalty amount that may be assessed under this section will be adjusted in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, by January 15 of each year and the updated amount will be posted in the
Federal Register
and on the Treasury website at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021; 88 FR 16887, Mar. 21, 2023; 89 FR 4820, Jan. 25, 2024; 90 FR 25484, June 17, 2025]]

Subpart J—Recoupment and Surcharge Procedures


§ 50.90   Mandatory and discretionary recoupment.

(a) Pursuant to section 103(e) of the Act, the Secretary shall impose, and insurers shall collect, such Federal terrorism policy surcharges as needed to recover 140 percent of the mandatory recoupment amount for any calendar year.
(b) In the Secretary's discretion, the Secretary may recover any portion of the aggregate Federal share of compensation that exceeds the mandatory recoupment amount through a Federal terrorism policy surcharge based on the factors set forth in section 103(e)(7)(D) of the Act.
(c) If the Secretary imposes a federal terrorism policy surcharge as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, then the required amounts, based upon the extent to which payments for the Federal Share of Compensation have been made by the collection deadlines in section 103(e)(7)(E) of the Act, shall be collected in accordance with such deadlines:
(1) For any act of terrorism that occurs on or before December 31, 2022, the Secretary shall collect all required amounts by September 30, 2024;
(2) For any act of terrorism that occurs between January 1, 2023 and December 31, 2023, the Secretary shall collect 35% of any required amounts by September 30, 2024, and the remainder by September 30, 2029; and
(3) For any act of terrorism that occurs on or after January 1, 2024, the Secretary shall collect all required amounts by September 30, 2029.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30541, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.91   Determination of recoupment amounts.

(a) If payments for the Federal share of compensation have been made for a calendar year, and Treasury determines that insured loss information is sufficiently developed and credible to serve as a basis for calculating recoupment amounts, Treasury will make an initial determination of any mandatory or discretionary recoupment amounts for that calendar year.
(b)(1) Within 90 days after certification of an act of terrorism, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register an estimate of aggregate insured losses which shall be used as the basis for initially determining whether mandatory recoupment will be required.
Federal Register
an estimate of aggregate insured losses which shall be used as the basis for initially determining whether mandatory recoupment will be required.
(2) If at any time Treasury projects that payments for the Federal share of compensation will be made for a calendar year, and that in order to meet the collection timing requirements of section 103(e)(7)(E) of the Act it is necessary to use an estimate of such payments as a basis for calculating recoupment amounts, Treasury will make an initial determination of any mandatory recoupment amounts for that calendar year.
(c) Following the initial determination of recoupment amounts for a calendar year, Treasury will recalculate any mandatory or discretionary recoupment amount as necessary and appropriate, and at least annually, until a final recoupment amount for the calendar year is determined. Treasury will compare any recalculated recoupment amount to amounts already remitted and/or to be remitted to Treasury for a Federal terrorism policy surcharge previously established to determine whether any additional amount will be recouped by Treasury.
(d) For the purpose of determining initial or recalculated recoupment amounts, Treasury may issue a data call to insurers for insurer deductible and insured loss information by calendar year. Treasury's determination of the aggregate amount of insured losses from Program Trigger Events of all insurers for a calendar year will be based on the amounts reported in response to a data call and any other information Treasury in its discretion considers appropriate. Submission of data in response to a data call shall be on a form promulgated by Treasury.

§ 50.92   Establishment of Federal terrorism policy surcharge.

(a) Treasury will establish the Federal terrorism policy surcharge based on the following factors and considerations:
(1) In the case of a mandatory recoupment amount, the requirement to collect 140 percent of that amount;
(2) The total dollar amount to be recouped as a percentage of the latest available annual aggregate industry direct written premium information;
(3) The adjustment factors for terrorism loss risk-spreading premiums described in section 103(e)(8)(D) of the Act;
(4) The annual 3 percent limitation on terrorism loss risk-spreading premiums collected on a discretionary basis as provided in section 103(e)(8)(C) of the Act;
(5) A preferred minimum initial assessment period of one full year and subsequent extension periods in full year increments;
(6) The collection timing requirements of section 103(e)(8)(E) of the Act;
(7) The likelihood that the amount of the Federal terrorism policy surcharge may result in the collection of an aggregate recoupment amount in excess of the planned recoupment amount; and
(8) Such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate to take into account.
(b) The Federal terrorism policy surcharge shall be the obligation of the policyholder and is payable to the insurer with the premium for a property and casualty insurance policy in effect during the assessment period established by Treasury. See § 50.94(c).

§ 50.93   Notification of recoupment.

(a) Treasury will provide notifications of recoupment through publication of notices in the Federal Register or in another manner Treasury deems appropriate, based upon the circumstances of the certified act(s) of terrorism under consideration.
Federal Register
or in another manner Treasury deems appropriate, based upon the circumstances of the certified act(s) of terrorism under consideration.
(b) Treasury will provide reasonable advance notice to insurers of any initial Federal terrorism policy surcharge effective date. This effective date shall be January 1 of the calendar year following publication of the notice, unless such date would not provide for sufficient notice of implementation while meeting the collection timing requirements of section 103(e)(8)(E) of the Act.
(c) Treasury will provide reasonable advance notice to insurers of any modification or cessation of the Federal terrorism policy surcharge.
(d) Treasury will provide notification to insurers annually as to the continuation of the Federal terrorism policy surcharge.

§ 50.94   Collecting the surcharge.

(a) Insurers shall collect a Federal terrorism policy surcharge from policyholders as required by Treasury.
(b) Policies subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge are those for which direct written premium is reported on commercial lines of business on the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement (commonly known as Statutory Page 14) as provided in § 50.4(w)(1), or equivalently reported.
(c) For policies subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge, the surcharge shall be imposed and collected on a written premium basis for policies that become effective or renew during the assessment period. All new, renewal, mid-term, and audit premiums for a policy term are subject to the surcharge in effect on the policy term effective date. Notwithstanding this paragraph, if the premium for a policy term that would otherwise be subject to the surcharge is revised after the end of the reporting period described in § 50.95(e), then any additional premium attributable to such revision is not subject to the Surcharge. For purposes of this subpart:
(1) Written premium basis means the premium amount charged a policyholder by an insurer for property and casualty insurance, including all premiums, policy expense constants and fees defined as premium pursuant to the Statements of Statutory Accounting Principles established by the NAIC, as adopted by the state for which the premium will be reported.
(2) In the case of a policy providing multiple insurance coverages, if an insurer cannot identify the premium amount charged a policyholder specifically for property and casualty insurance under the policy, then:
(i) If the insurer estimates that the portion of the premium amount charged for coverage other than property and casualty insurance is de minimis to the total premium for the policy, the insurer may impose and collect from the policyholder a surcharge amount based on the total premium for the policy, but
de minimis
to the total premium for the policy, the insurer may impose and collect from the policyholder a surcharge amount based on the total premium for the policy, but
(ii) If the insurer estimates that the portion of the premium amount charged for coverage other than property and casualty insurance is not de minimis, the insurer shall impose and collect from the policyholder a Surcharge amount based on a reasonable estimate of the premium amount for the property and casualty insurance coverage under the policy.
de minimis,
the insurer shall impose and collect from the policyholder a Surcharge amount based on a reasonable estimate of the premium amount for the property and casualty insurance coverage under the policy.
(3) The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is not considered premium.
(d) A policyholder must pay the applicable Federal terrorism policy surcharge when due. The insurer shall have such rights and remedies to enforce the collection of the surcharge that are the equivalent to those that exist under applicable state or other law for nonpayment of premium.
(e) When an insurer returns an unearned premium, or otherwise refunds premium to a policyholder, it shall also return any Federal terrorism policy surcharge collected that is attributable to the refunded unearned premium. Notwithstanding this paragraph, if the written premium for a policy is revised and refunded after the end of the reporting period described in § 50.95(e), then the insurer is not required to refund any Surcharge that is attributable to the refunded premium.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, if the expense of collecting the Federal terrorism policy surcharge from all policyholders of an insurer during an assessment period exceeds the amount of the Surcharges anticipated to be collected, such insurer may satisfy its obligation to collect by omitting actual collection and instead remitting to Treasury the amount otherwise due.
(g) The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is repayment of Federal financial assistance in an amount required by law. No fee or commission shall be charged on the Federal terrorism policy surcharge.

§ 50.95   Remitting the surcharge.

(a) Each insurer shall report direct written premium and Federal terrorism policy surcharges to Treasury on a monthly and annual basis during the assessment period. Reporting will be on a form prescribed by Treasury and will be due according to the following schedule:
(1) Monthly: From the beginning of the assessment period through November, on the last business day of the calendar month following the month for which premium is reported, and
Monthly:
From the beginning of the assessment period through November, on the last business day of the calendar month following the month for which premium is reported, and
(2) Annually: March 1 for the prior calendar year.
Annually:
March 1 for the prior calendar year.
(b) The monthly statements provided to Treasury will include the following:
(1) Cumulative calendar year direct written premium adjusted for premium not subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge, summarized by policy year.
(2) The aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount calculated by applying the established surcharge percentage to the insurer's adjusted direct written premium by policy year.
(3) Insurer certification of the submission.
(c) The annual statements to be provided to Treasury will include the following:
(1) Direct written premium, adjusted for premium not subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge, summarized by policy year and by commercial line of insurance as specified in § 50.4(w).
(2) The aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount calculated by applying the established surcharge percentage to the insurer's adjusted direct written premium by policy year.
(3) In the case of an insurer that has chosen not to collect the Federal terrorism policy surcharge from its policyholders as provided in § 50.94(f), a certification that the expense of collecting the Surcharge during the assessment period would have exceeded the amount of the surcharges collected over the assessment period.
(4) Insurer certification of the submission.
(d) The calculated aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount, as described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section, shall be remitted to Treasury upon submission of each monthly and annual statement. Through its submitted statements, an insurer obtains credit for a refund of any Federal terrorism policy surcharge previously remitted to Treasury that was subsequently returned by the insurer to a policyholder as attributable to refunded premium under § 50.94(e). A negative calculated amount in a monthly or annual statement indicates payment from Treasury is due to the insurer.
(e) Reporting shall continue for the one-year period following the end of the assessment period established by Treasury, unless otherwise permitted by Treasury.

§ 50.96   Insurer responsibility.

Notwithstanding § 50.4(o), for purposes of the collection, reporting and remittance of Federal terrorism policy surcharges to Treasury, the definition of insurer shall not include any affiliate of the insurer.

Subpart K—Federal Cause of Action; Approval of Settlements


§ 50.100   Federal cause of action and remedy.

(a) General. If the Secretary certifies an act as an act of terrorism pursuant to subpart G of this part, there shall exist a Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death arising out of or resulting from such act of terrorism, pursuant to section 107 of the Act, which shall be the exclusive cause of action and remedy for claims for property damage, personal injury, or death arising out of or relating to such act of terrorism, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
General.
If the Secretary certifies an act as an act of terrorism pursuant to subpart G of this part, there shall exist a Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death arising out of or resulting from such act of terrorism, pursuant to section 107 of the Act, which shall be the exclusive cause of action and remedy for claims for property damage, personal injury, or death arising out of or relating to such act of terrorism, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) Jurisdiction. For each determination described in paragraph (a) of this section, not later than 90 days after the Secretary certifies an act as an act of terrorism, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation shall designate a single district court or, if necessary, multiple district courts of the United States that shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over all actions for any claim (including any claim for loss of property, personal injury, or death) relating to or arising out of an act of terrorism subject to section 107 of the Act.
Jurisdiction.
For each determination described in paragraph (a) of this section, not later than 90 days after the Secretary certifies an act as an act of terrorism, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation shall designate a single district court or, if necessary, multiple district courts of the United States that shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over all actions for any claim (including any claim for loss of property, personal injury, or death) relating to or arising out of an act of terrorism subject to section 107 of the Act.
(c) Effective period. The exclusive Federal cause of action and remedy described in paragraph (a) of this section shall exist only for causes of action for property damage, personal injury, or death that arise out of or result from acts of terrorism during the effective period of the Program.
Effective period.
The exclusive Federal cause of action and remedy described in paragraph (a) of this section shall exist only for causes of action for property damage, personal injury, or death that arise out of or result from acts of terrorism during the effective period of the Program.
(d) Rights not affected. Nothing in section 107 of the Act or this subpart shall in any way:
Rights not affected.
Nothing in section 107 of the Act or this subpart shall in any way:
(1) Limit the liability of any government, organization, or person who knowingly participates in, conspires to commit, aids and abets, or commits any act of terrorism;
(2) Affect any party's contractual right to arbitrate a dispute; or
(3) Affect any provision of the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (Pub. L. 107-42; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note).

§ 50.101   State causes of action preempted.

All State causes of action of any kind for property damage, personal injury, or death arising out of or resulting from an act of terrorism that are otherwise available under state law are preempted, except that, pursuant to section 107(b) of the Act, nothing in this section shall limit in any way the liability of any government, organization, or person who knowingly participates in, conspires to commit, aids and abets, or commits the act of terrorism certified by the Secretary.

§ 50.102   Advance approval of settlements.

(a) Mandatory submission of settlements for advance approval. Pursuant to section 107(a)(6) of the Act, an insurer shall submit to Treasury for advance approval any proposed agreement to settle or compromise any Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death, asserted by a third-party or parties against an insured, involving an insured loss, all or part of the payment of which the insurer intends to include in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the insurer deductible or the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses under the Program, when:
Mandatory submission of settlements for advance approval.
Pursuant to section 107(a)(6) of the Act, an insurer shall submit to Treasury for advance approval any proposed agreement to settle or compromise any Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death, asserted by a third-party or parties against an insured, involving an insured loss, all or part of the payment of which the insurer intends to include in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the insurer deductible or the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses under the Program, when:
(1) Any portion of the proposed settlement amount that is attributable to an insured loss or losses involving personal injury or death in the aggregate is $2 million or more per third-party claimant, regardless of the number of causes of action or insured losses being settled; or
(2) Any portion of the proposed settlement amount that is attributable to an insured loss or losses involving property damage (including loss of use) in the aggregate is $10 million or more per third-party claimant, regardless of the number of causes of action or insured losses being settled.
(b) Discretionary review of other settlements. Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, Treasury may require that an insurer submit for review and advance approval any proposed agreement to settle or compromise any Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death, asserted by a third-party or parties against an insured, involving an insured loss, all or part of the payment of which the insurer intends to include in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the insurer deductible or the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses where the settlement amounts are below the applicable monetary thresholds identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
Discretionary review of other settlements.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, Treasury may require that an insurer submit for review and advance approval any proposed agreement to settle or compromise any Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death, asserted by a third-party or parties against an insured, involving an insured loss, all or part of the payment of which the insurer intends to include in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the insurer deductible or the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses where the settlement amounts are below the applicable monetary thresholds identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) Factors. In determining whether to approve a proposed settlement, Treasury will consider the nature of the loss, the facts and circumstances surrounding the loss, and other factors such as whether:
Factors.
In determining whether to approve a proposed settlement, Treasury will consider the nature of the loss, the facts and circumstances surrounding the loss, and other factors such as whether:
(1) The proposed settlement compensates for a third-party's loss, the liability for which is an insured loss under the terms and conditions of the underlying commercial property and casualty insurance policy, as certified by the insurer pursuant to § 50.103(d)(2);
(2) Any amount of the proposed settlement is attributable to punitive or exemplary damages intended to punish or deter (whether or not specifically so described as such damages);
(3) The settlement amount offsets amounts received from the United States pursuant to any other Federal program;
(4) The settlement amount does not include any items such as fees and expenses of attorneys, experts, and other professionals that have caused the insured losses under the underlying commercial property and casualty insurance policy to be overstated; and
(5) Any other criteria that Treasury may consider appropriate, depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the settlement, including the information contained in § 50.103.
(d) Settlement without seeking advance approval or despite disapproval. If an insurer settles a cause of action or agrees to the settlement of a cause of action without submitting the proposed settlement for Treasury's advance approval in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and in accordance with § 50.103 or despite Treasury's disapproval of the proposed settlement, the insurer will not be entitled to include the paid settlement amount (or portion of the settlement amount, to the extent partially disapproved) in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses, unless the insurer can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of Treasury, extenuating circumstances.
Settlement without seeking advance approval or despite disapproval.
If an insurer settles a cause of action or agrees to the settlement of a cause of action without submitting the proposed settlement for Treasury's advance approval in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and in accordance with § 50.103 or despite Treasury's disapproval of the proposed settlement, the insurer will not be entitled to include the paid settlement amount (or portion of the settlement amount, to the extent partially disapproved) in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses, unless the insurer can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of Treasury, extenuating circumstances.

§ 50.103   Procedure for requesting approval of proposed settlements.

(a) Submission of notice. Insurers must request advance approval of a proposed settlement by submitting a notice of the proposed settlement and other required information in writing to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office or its designated representative. The address where notices are to be submitted will be available at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program following any certification of an act of terrorism pursuant to section 102(1) of the Act.
Submission of notice.
Insurers must request advance approval of a proposed settlement by submitting a notice of the proposed settlement and other required information in writing to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office or its designated representative. The address where notices are to be submitted will be available at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program
following any certification of an act of terrorism pursuant to section 102(1) of the Act.
(b) Complete notice. Treasury will review requests for advance approval and determine whether additional information is needed to complete the notice.
Complete notice.
Treasury will review requests for advance approval and determine whether additional information is needed to complete the notice.
(c) Treasury response or deemed approval. Within 30 days after Treasury's receipt of a complete notice, or as extended in writing by Treasury, Treasury may issue a written response and indicate its partial or full approval or rejection of the proposed settlement. If Treasury does not issue a response within 30 days after Treasury's receipt of a complete notice, unless extended in writing by Treasury, the request for advance approval is deemed approved by Treasury. Any settlement is still subject to review under the claim procedures pursuant to § 50.80.
Treasury response or deemed approval.
Within 30 days after Treasury's receipt of a complete notice, or as extended in writing by Treasury, Treasury may issue a written response and indicate its partial or full approval or rejection of the proposed settlement. If Treasury does not issue a response within 30 days after Treasury's receipt of a complete notice, unless extended in writing by Treasury, the request for advance approval is deemed approved by Treasury. Any settlement is still subject to review under the claim procedures pursuant to § 50.80.
(d) Notice format. A notice of a proposed settlement should be entitled, “Notice of Proposed Settlement—Request for Approval,” and should provide the full name and address of the submitting insurer and the name, title, address, and telephone number of the designated contact person. An insurer must provide all relevant information, including the following, as applicable:
Notice format.
A notice of a proposed settlement should be entitled, “Notice of Proposed Settlement—Request for Approval,” and should provide the full name and address of the submitting insurer and the name, title, address, and telephone number of the designated contact person. An insurer must provide all relevant information, including the following, as applicable:
(1) A brief description of the claim against the insured, the amount of the claim, the operative policy terms, and defenses to coverage;
(2) A certification by the insurer that the settlement is for a third-party's loss, the liability for which is an insured loss under the terms and conditions of the underlying commercial property and casualty insurance policy;
(3) A brief description of all damages allegedly sustained and an itemized statement of all damages by category (i.e., actual, economic and non-economic loss, punitive damages, etc.);
i.e.,
actual, economic and non-economic loss, punitive damages, etc.);
(4) A statement from the insurer or its attorney in support of the settlement;
(5) The total dollar amount of the proposed settlement and the amount of the proposed settlement which is an insured loss;
(6) Indication as to whether the settlement was negotiated by counsel;
(7) The amount to be paid that will compensate for any items such as fees and expenses of attorneys, experts, and other professionals for their services and expenses related to the insured loss and/or settlement and the net amount to be received by the third-party after such payment;
(8) The amount(s) received from the United States pursuant to any other Federal program(s) for compensation of insured losses related to an act of terrorism;
(9) The proposed terms of the written settlement agreement, including release language and subrogation terms;
(10) Other relevant agreements, including:
(i) Admissions of liability or insurance coverage;
(ii) Determinations of the number of occurrences under a commercial property and casualty insurance policy;
(iii) The allocation of paid amounts or amounts to be paid to certain policies, or to a specific policy, coverage and/or aggregate limits;
(iv) Any other agreement that may affect the payment or amount of the Federal share of compensation to be paid to the insurer; and
(v) Any other relevant agreement requested by Treasury.
(11) A statement indicating whether the proposed settlement has been approved by the Federal court or is subject to such approval and whether such approval is expected or likely; and
(12) Such other information that is related to the insured loss as may be requested by Treasury that it deems necessary to evaluate the proposed settlement.
[[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30541, June 9, 2021]]

§ 50.104   Subrogation.

An insurer shall not waive its rights of subrogation under its property and casualty insurance policy with respect to any losses the payment of which the insurer intends to include in its insurer deductible or the aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses and shall, unless upon request the United States agrees in writing to forbear from exercising such right, preserve the subrogation right of the United States as provided by section 107(c) of the Act by not taking any action that would prejudice the subrogation right of the United States.

Subpart L—Cap on Annual Liability


§ 50.110   Cap on annual liability.

Pursuant to section 103 of the Act, if the aggregate insured losses exceed $100,000,000,000 during a calendar year:
(a) The Secretary shall not make any payment for any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000;
(b) An insurer that has met its insurer deductible shall not be liable for the payment of any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000; and
(c) The Secretary shall determine the pro rata share of insured losses to be paid by each insurer that incurs insured losses under the Program.
pro rata
share of insured losses to be paid by each insurer that incurs insured losses under the Program.

§ 50.111   Notice to Congress.

Pursuant to section 103(e)(3) of the Act, the Secretary shall provide an initial notice to Congress within 15 days of the certification of an act of terrorism, stating whether the Secretary estimates that aggregate insured losses will exceed $100,000,000,000 for the calendar year in which the event occurs. Such initial estimate may be based on insured loss amounts as compiled by insurance industry statistical organizations, data previously collected by the Secretary, and any other information the Secretary in his or her discretion considers appropriate. The Secretary shall also notify Congress if estimated or actual aggregate insured losses exceed $100,000,000,000 during any calendar year.

§ 50.112   Determination of

pro rata
share.
(a) Pro rata loss percentage (PRLP) is the percentage determined by the Secretary to be applied by an insurer against the amount that would otherwise be paid by the insurer under the terms and conditions of an insurance policy providing property and casualty insurance under the Program if there were no cap on annual liability under section 103(e)(2)(A) of the Act.
Pro rata loss percentage (PRLP)
is the percentage determined by the Secretary to be applied by an insurer against the amount that would otherwise be paid by the insurer under the terms and conditions of an insurance policy providing property and casualty insurance under the Program if there were no cap on annual liability under section 103(e)(2)(A) of the Act.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, if Treasury estimates that aggregate insured losses may exceed the cap on annual liability for a calendar year, then Treasury will determine a PRLP. The PRLP applies to insured loss payments by insurers for insured losses incurred in the subject calendar year, as specified in § 50.113, from the effective date of the PRLP, as established by Treasury, until such time as Treasury provides notice that the PRLP is revised. Treasury will determine the PRLP based on the following considerations:
(1) Estimates of insured losses from insurance industry statistical organizations;
(2) Any data calls issued by Treasury (see § 50.114);
(3) Expected reliability and accuracy of insured loss estimates and likelihood that insured loss estimates could increase;
(4) Estimates of insured losses and expenses not included in available statistical reporting;
(5) Such other factors as the Secretary considers important.
(c) Treasury shall provide notice of the determination of the PRLP through publication in the Federal Register, or in another manner Treasury deems appropriate, based upon the circumstances of the act of terrorism under consideration.
Federal Register,
or in another manner Treasury deems appropriate, based upon the circumstances of the act of terrorism under consideration.
(d) As appropriate, Treasury will determine any revision to a PRLP based on the same considerations listed in paragraph (b) of this section, and will provide notice for its application to insured loss payments.
(e) If Treasury estimates based on an initial act of terrorism or subsequent act of terrorism within a calendar year that aggregate insured losses may exceed the cap on annual liability, but an appropriate PRLP cannot yet be determined, Treasury will provide notification advising insurers of this circumstance and, after consulting with the relevant state authorities, may initiate the action described in either paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Hiatus in payments. Call a hiatus in insurer loss payments for insured losses of up to two weeks. In such a circumstance, Treasury will determine a PRLP as quickly as possible. The PRLP, as later determined, will be effective retroactively as of the start of the hiatus. Any insured losses submitted in support of an insurer's claim for the Federal share of compensation will be reviewed for the insurer's compliance with pro rata payments in accordance with the effective date of the PRLP.
Hiatus in payments.
Call a hiatus in insurer loss payments for insured losses of up to two weeks. In such a circumstance, Treasury will determine a PRLP as quickly as possible. The PRLP, as later determined, will be effective retroactively as of the start of the hiatus. Any insured losses submitted in support of an insurer's claim for the Federal share of compensation will be reviewed for the insurer's compliance with
pro rata
payments in accordance with the effective date of the PRLP.
(2) Determine an interim PRLP. (i) An interim PRLP is an amount determined without the availability of information necessary for consideration of all factors listed in § 50.112(b). It is a conservatively low percentage amount determined in order to facilitate initial partial claim payments by insurers after an act of terrorism and prior to the time that information becomes available to determine a PRLP based on consideration of the factors listed in § 50.112(b).
Determine an interim PRLP.
(i) An interim PRLP is an amount determined without the availability of information necessary for consideration of all factors listed in § 50.112(b). It is a conservatively low percentage amount determined in order to facilitate initial partial claim payments by insurers after an act of terrorism and prior to the time that information becomes available to determine a PRLP based on consideration of the factors listed in § 50.112(b).
(ii) In such a circumstance, Treasury will determine a PRLP to replace the interim PRLP as quickly as possible. The PRLP, as later determined, will be effective retroactively as of the effective date of the interim PRLP. Any insured losses submitted in support of an insurer's claim for the Federal share of compensation will be reviewed for the insurer's compliance with pro rata payments in accordance with the effective date of the interim PRLP, or as later replaced by the PRLP as appropriate.
pro rata
payments in accordance with the effective date of the interim PRLP, or as later replaced by the PRLP as appropriate.

§ 50.113   Application of

pro rata
share.
An insurer shall apply the PRLP to determine the pro rata share of each insured loss to be paid by the insurer on all insured losses in the absence of an agreement on a complete and final settlement as evidenced by a signed settlement agreement or other means reviewable by a third party as of the effective date established by Treasury. Payments based on the application of the PRLP and determination of the pro rata share satisfy the insurer's liability for payment under the Program. Application of the PRLP and the determination of the pro rata share are the exclusive means for calculating the amount of insured losses for Program purposes. The pro rata share is subject to the following:
pro rata
share of each insured loss to be paid by the insurer on all insured losses in the absence of an agreement on a complete and final settlement as evidenced by a signed settlement agreement or other means reviewable by a third party as of the effective date established by Treasury. Payments based on the application of the PRLP and determination of the
pro rata
share satisfy the insurer's liability for payment under the Program. Application of the PRLP and the determination of the
pro rata
share are the exclusive means for calculating the amount of insured losses for Program purposes. The
pro rata
share is subject to the following:
(a) The pro rata share is determined based on the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid.
pro rata
share is determined based on the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid.
(b) All policies. If partial payments have already been made as of the effective date of the PRLP, then the pro rata share for that loss is the greater of the amount already paid as of the effective date of the PRLP or the amount computed by applying the PRLP to the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid.
All policies.
If partial payments have already been made as of the effective date of the PRLP, then the
pro rata
share for that loss is the greater of the amount already paid as of the effective date of the PRLP or the amount computed by applying the PRLP to the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid.
(c) Certain workers' compensation insurance policies. If an insurer's payments under a workers' compensation policy cumulatively exceed the amount computed by applying the PRLP to the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid because such estimated or actual final settlement amount is reduced from a previous estimate, then the insurer may request a review and adjustment by Treasury in the calculation of the Federal share of compensation. In requesting such a review, the insurer must submit information to supplement its Certification of Loss demonstrating a reasonable estimate invalidated by unexpected conditions differing from prior assumptions including, but not limited to, an explanation and the basis for the prior assumptions.
Certain workers' compensation insurance policies.
If an insurer's payments under a workers' compensation policy cumulatively exceed the amount computed by applying the PRLP to the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid because such estimated or actual final settlement amount is reduced from a previous estimate, then the insurer may request a review and adjustment by Treasury in the calculation of the Federal share of compensation. In requesting such a review, the insurer must submit information to supplement its Certification of Loss demonstrating a reasonable estimate invalidated by unexpected conditions differing from prior assumptions including, but not limited to, an explanation and the basis for the prior assumptions.
(d) If an insurer has not yet made payments in excess of its insurer deductible, the rules in this paragraph apply.
(1) If the insurer estimates that it will exceed its insurer deductible making payments based on the application of the PRLP to its insured losses, then the insurer shall apply the PRLP as of the effective date specified in § 50.112(b).
(2)(i) If the insurer estimates that it will not exceed its insurer deductible making payments based on the application of the PRLP to its insured losses, then the insurer may make payments on the same basis as prior to the effective date of the PRLP. The insurer may also make payments on the basis of applying some other pro rata amount it determines that is greater than the PRLP, where the insurer estimates that application of such other pro rata amount will result in it not exceeding its insurer deductible. The insurer remains liable for losses in accordance with § 50.115(c).
pro rata
amount it determines that is greater than the PRLP, where the insurer estimates that application of such other
pro rata
amount will result in it not exceeding its insurer deductible. The insurer remains liable for losses in accordance with § 50.115(c).
(ii) If an insurer estimates that it will not exceed its insurer deductible and has made payments on the basis provided in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, but thereafter reaches its insurer deductible, then the insurer shall apply the PRLP to any remaining insured losses. When such an insurer submits a claim for the Federal share of compensation, the amount of the insurer's losses will be deemed to be the amount it would have paid if it had applied the PRLP as of the effective date, and the Federal share of compensation will be calculated on that amount. However, an insurer may request an exception if it can demonstrate that its estimate was invalidated as a result of insured losses from a subsequent act of terrorism.

§ 50.114   Data call authority.

For the purpose of determining initial or recalculated PRLPs, Treasury may issue a data call to insurers for insured loss information, seeking information in addition to any information provided to Treasury under subparts F and H of this part.

§ 50.115   Final amount.

(a) Treasury shall determine if, as a final proration, remaining insured loss payments, as well as adjustments to previous insured loss payments, can be made by insurers based on an adjusted PLRP, and aggregate insured losses still remain within the cap on annual liability. In such a circumstance, Treasury will notify insurers as to the final PRLP and its application to insured losses.
(b) If paragraph (a) of this section applies, Treasury may require, as part of the insurer submission for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses, a supplementary explanation regarding how additional payments will be provided on previously settled insured losses.
(c) An insurer that has prorated its insured losses, but that has not met its insurer deductible, remains liable for loss payments that in the aggregate bring the insurer's total insured loss payments up to an amount equal to the lesser of its insured losses without proration or its insurer deductible.

Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance


CHAPTER I—MONETARY OFFICES, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


PARTS 51-55 [RESERVED]


PART 56—DOMESTIC GOLD AND SILVER OPERATIONS SALE OF SILVER

[Authority:Sec. 209, 79 Stat. 257; 31 U.S.C. 405a-1.]
Authority:
Sec. 209, 79 Stat. 257; 31 U.S.C. 405a-1.

§ 56.1   Conditions upon which silver will be sold.

The General Services Administration, as agent for the Treasury Department, will conduct periodic sales of silver as agreed upon between GSA and the Treasury Department. Sales will be under competitive bidding procedures established by agreement between GSA and the Treasury Department. Details of the bidding and selling procedures are obtainable by telephone or by writing to General Services Administration, Property Management and Disposal Service, Industry Materials Division, Metals Project, Washington, DC 20405.
[[32 FR 13380, Sept. 22, 1967]]

§ 56.2   Sales price.

Sales of silver will be at prices offered through the competitive bidding procedures referred to in § 56.1, and accepted by the GSA.
[[32 FR 13380, Sept. 22, 1967]]

PART 82—5-CENT AND ONE-CENT COIN REGULATIONS

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 5111(d).]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 5111(d).
[Source:72 FR 61055, Oct. 29, 2007, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
72 FR 61055, Oct. 29, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

§ 82.1   Prohibitions.

Except as specifically authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury (or designee) or as otherwise provided in this part, no person shall export, melt, or treat:
(a) Any 5-cent coin of the United States; or
(b) Any one-cent coin of the United States.

§ 82.2   Exceptions.

(a) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the exportation of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins of the United States shall not apply to:
(1) The exportation in any one shipment of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins having an aggregate face value of not more than $100 that are to be legitimately used as money or for numismatic purposes. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to authorize export for the purpose of sale or resale of coins for melting or treatment by any person.
(2) The exportation of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins carried on an individual, or in the personal effects of an individual, departing from a place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, when the aggregate face value is not more than $5, or when the aggregate face value is not more than $25 and it is clear that the purpose for exporting such coins is for legitimate personal numismatic, amusement, or recreational use.
(b) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the treatment of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins shall not apply to the treatment of these coins for educational, amusement, novelty, jewelry, and similar purposes as long as the volumes treated and the nature of the treatment makes it clear that such treatment is not intended as a means by which to profit solely from the value of the metal content of the coins.
(c) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the exportation, melting, or treatment of 5-cent and one-cent coins of the United States shall not apply to coins exported, melted, or treated incidental to the recycling of other materials so long as—
(1) Such 5-cent and one-cent coins were not added to the other materials for their metallurgical value;
(2) The volumes of the 5-cent coins and one-cent coins, relative to the volumes of the other materials recycled, makes it clear that the presence of such coins is merely incidental; and
(3) The separation of the 5-cent and one-cent coins from the other materials would be impracticable or cost prohibitive.
(d) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the exportation, melting, or treatment of 5-cent coins shall not apply to 5-cent coins inscribed with the years 1942, 1943, 1944, or 1945 that are composed of an alloy comprising copper, silver and manganese.
(e) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the exportation of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins shall not apply to 5-cent coins and one-cent coins exported by a Federal Reserve Bank or a domestic depository institution, or to a foreign central bank, when the exportation of such 5-cent coins and one-cent coins is for use as circulating money.
(f)(1) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against exportation, melting, or treatment of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins of the United States shall not apply to coins exported, melted, or treated under a written license issued by the Secretary of the Treasury (or designee).
(2) Applications for licenses should be transmitted to the Director, United States Mint, 801 9th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20220.

§ 82.3   Definitions.

(a) 5-cent coin of the United States means a 5-cent coin minted and issued by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5112(a)(5).
5-cent coin of the United States
means a 5-cent coin minted and issued by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5112(a)(5).
(b) One-cent coin of the United States means a one-cent coin minted and issued by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5112(a)(6).
One-cent coin of the United States
means a one-cent coin minted and issued by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5112(a)(6).
(c) Export means to remove, send, ship, or carry, or to take any action with the intent to facilitate a person's removing, sending, shipping, or carrying, from the United States or any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof, to any place outside of the United States or to any place not subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
Export
means to remove, send, ship, or carry, or to take any action with the intent to facilitate a person's removing, sending, shipping, or carrying, from the United States or any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof, to any place outside of the United States or to any place not subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
(d) Person means any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, but does not include an agency of the Government of the United States.
Person
means any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, but does not include an agency of the Government of the United States.
(e) Treat or treatment means to smelt, refine, or otherwise treat by heating, or by a chemical, electrical, or mechanical process.
Treat
or
treatment
means to smelt, refine, or otherwise treat by heating, or by a chemical, electrical, or mechanical process.

§ 82.4   Penalties.

(a) Any person who exports, melts, or treats 5-cent coins or one-cent coins of the United States in violation of § 82.1 shall be subject to the penalties specified in 31 U.S.C. 5111(d), including a fine of not more than $10,000 and/or imprisonment of not more than 5 years.
(b) In addition to the penalties prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 5111(d), a person violating the prohibitions of this part may be subject to other penalties provided by law, including 18 U.S.C. 1001(a).

PART 91—REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT IN OR ON THE BUREAU OF THE MINT BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301, by delegation from the Administrator of General Services, 35 FR 14426, and Treasury Department Order 177-25 (Revision 2), 38 FR 21947.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, by delegation from the Administrator of General Services, 35 FR 14426, and Treasury Department Order 177-25 (Revision 2), 38 FR 21947.
[Source:34 FR 503, Jan. 14, 1969, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
34 FR 503, Jan. 14, 1969, unless otherwise noted.

§ 91.1   Authority.

The regulations in this part governing conduct in and on the Bureau of the Mint buildings and grounds located as follows: U.S. Mint, Colfax, and Delaware Streets, Denver, Colorado; U.S. Bullion Depository, Fort Knox, Kentucky; U.S. Assay Office, 32 Old Slip New York, New York; U.S. Mint, 5th and Arch Streets, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; U.S. Assay Office, 155 Hermann Street, and the Old U.S. Mint Building, 88 Fifth Street, San Francisco, California; and U.S. Bullion Depository, West Point, New York; are promulgated pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury, including 5 U.S.C. 301, and that vested in him by delegation from the Administrator of General Services, 38 FR 20650 (1973), and in accordance with the authority vested in the Director of the Mint by Treasury Department Order No. 177-25 Revision 2), dated August 8, 1973, 38 FR 21947 (1973).
[[38 FR 24897, Sept. 11, 1973]]

§ 91.2   Applicability.

The regulations in this part apply to the buildings and grounds of the Bureau of the Mint located as follows: U.S. Mint, Colfax and Delaware Streets, Denver, Colorado; U.S. Bullion Depository, Fort Knox, Kentucky; U.S. Assay Office, 32 Old Slip, New York, New York; U.S. Mint, Fifth and Arch Streets, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; U.S. Assay Office, 155 Hermann Street, and the Old U.S. Mint Building, 88 Fifth Street, San Francisco, California; and U.S. Bullion Depository, West Point, New York; and to all persons entering in or on such property. Unless otherwise stated herein, the Bureau of the Mint buildings and grounds shall be referred to in these regulations as the “property”.
[[38 FR 24897, Sept. 11, 1973]]

§ 91.3   Recording presence.

Except as otherwise ordered, the property shall be closed to the public during other than normal working hours. The property shall also be closed to the public when, in the opinion of the senior supervising official of any Bureau of the Mint establishment covered by these regulations, or his delegate, an emergency situation exists, and at such other times as may be necessary for the orderly conduct of the Government's business. Admission to the property during periods when such property is closed to the public will be limited to authorized individuals who will be required to sign the register and/or display identification documents when requested by the guard.

§ 91.4   Preservation of property.

It shall be unlawful for any person without proper authority to wilfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property or any part thereof or any furnishings therein.

§ 91.5   Compliance with signs and directions.

Persons in and on the property shall comply with the instructions of uniformed Bureau of the Mint guards (U.S. Special Policemen), other authorized officials, and official signs of a prohibitory or directory nature.

§ 91.6   Nuisances.

The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, unwarranted loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or things, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. The throwing of any articles of any kind in, upon, or from the property and climbing upon any part thereof, is prohibited. The entry, without specific permission, upon any part of the property to which the public does not customarily have access, is prohibited.

§ 91.7   Gambling.

(a) Participating in games for money or other property, the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, the selling or purchasing of numbers tickets, or any other gambling in or on the property, is prohibited.
(b) Possession in or on the property of any numbers slip or ticket, record, notation, receipt, or other writing of a type ordinarily used in any illegal form of gambling such as a tip sheet or dream book, unless explained to the satisfaction of the head of the bureau or his delegate, shall be prima facie evidence that there is participation in an illegal form of gambling in or on such property.
[[34 FR 503, Jan. 14, 1969, as amended at 36 FR 3523, Feb. 26, 1971]]

§ 91.8   Alcoholic beverages, narcotics, hallucinogenic and dangerous drugs.

Entering or being on the property, or operating a motor vehicle thereon by a person under the influence of alcoholic beverages, narcotics, hallucinogenic or dangerous drugs is prohibited. The use of any narcotic, hallucinogenic or dangerous drug in or on the property is prohibited. The use of alcoholic beverages in or on the property is prohibited except on occasions and on property upon which the Director of the Mint has for appropriate official uses granted and exemption permit in writing.
[[38 FR 24898, Sept. 11, 1973]]

§ 91.9   Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.

The unauthorized soliciting of alms and contributions, the commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts, in or on the property, is prohibited. This rule does not apply to Bureau of the Mint concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval from the Director of the Mint, or the delegate of the Director.

§ 91.10   Photographs.

The taking of photographs on the property is prohibited, without the written permission of the Director of the Mint.

§ 91.11   Dogs and other animals.

Dogs and other animals, except seeing-eye dogs, shall not be brought upon the property for other than official purposes.

§ 91.12   Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.

(a) Drivers of all vehicles in or on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of guards and all posted traffic signs.
(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants in or on the property is prohibited.
(c) Parking in or on the property is not allowed without a permit or specific authority. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons or continuously in excess of 8 hours without permission, or contrary to the direction of a uniformed Bureau of the Mint guard, or of posted signs, is prohibited.
(d) This paragraph may be supplemented from time to time with the approval of the Director of the Mint, or the delegate of the Director, by the issuance and posting of such specific traffic directives as may be required and when so issued and posted such directives shall have the same force and effect as if made a part hereof.

§ 91.13   Weapons and explosives.

No person while on the property shall carry firearms, other dangerous or deadly weapons, or explosives, either openly or concealed, except for official purposes.

§ 91.14   Penalties and other law.

Whoever shall be found guilty of violating any of the regulations in this part while on the property is subject to a fine of not more than $50, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both (40 U.S.C. 318c). Nothing contained in the regulations in this part shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal laws or regulations or those of any State or municipality applicable to the property referred to in § 91.2 and governed by the regulations in this part.

PART 92—UNITED STATES MINT OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301, 31 U.S.C. 321 and 333.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 31 U.S.C. 321 and 333.
[Source:47 FR 56353, Dec. 16, 1982, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
47 FR 56353, Dec. 16, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Numismatic Operations


§ 92.1   Manufacture of medals.

With the approval of the Director of the Mint, dies for medals of a national character designated by Congress may be executed at the Philadelphia Mint, and struck in such field office of the Mints and Assay Offices as the Director shall designate.

§ 92.2   Sale of “list” medals.

Medals on the regular Mint list, when available, are sold to the public at a charge sufficient to cover their cost, and to include mailing cost when mailed. Copies of the list of medals available for sale and their selling prices may be obtained from the Director of the Mint, Washington, DC.

§ 92.3   Manufacture and sale of “proof” coins.

“Proof” coins, i.e., coins prepared from blanks specially polished and struck, are made as authorized by the Director of the Mint and are sold at a price sufficient to cover their face value plus the additional expense of their manufacture and sale. Their manufacture and issuance are contingent upon the demands of regular operations. Information concerning availability and price may be obtained from the Director of the Mint, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220.
i.e.
, coins prepared from blanks specially polished and struck, are made as authorized by the Director of the Mint and are sold at a price sufficient to cover their face value plus the additional expense of their manufacture and sale. Their manufacture and issuance are contingent upon the demands of regular operations. Information concerning availability and price may be obtained from the Director of the Mint, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220.

§ 92.4   Uncirculated Mint Sets.

Uncirculated Mint Sets, i.e., specially packaged coin sets containing one coin of each denomination struck at the Mints at Philadelphia and Denver, and the Assay Office at San Francisco, will be made as authorized by the Director of the Mint and will be sold at a price sufficient to cover their face value plus the additional expense of their processing and sale. Their manufacture and issuance are contingent upon demands of regular operations. Information concerning availability and price may be obtained from the Director of the Mint, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220.
i.e.
, specially packaged coin sets containing one coin of each denomination struck at the Mints at Philadelphia and Denver, and the Assay Office at San Francisco, will be made as authorized by the Director of the Mint and will be sold at a price sufficient to cover their face value plus the additional expense of their processing and sale. Their manufacture and issuance are contingent upon demands of regular operations. Information concerning availability and price may be obtained from the Director of the Mint, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220.

Subpart B—Availability of Records


§ 92.5   Procedure governing availability of Bureau of the Mint records.

(a) Regulations of the Office of the Secretary adopted. The regulations on the Disclosure of Records of the Office of the Secretary and other bureaus and offices of the Department issued under 5 U.S.C. 301 and 552 and published as part 1 of this title, 32 FR No. 127, July 1, 1967, except for § 1.7 of this title entitled “Appeal,” shall govern the availability of Bureau of the Mint records.
Regulations of the Office of the Secretary adopted.
The regulations on the Disclosure of Records of the Office of the Secretary and other bureaus and offices of the Department issued under 5 U.S.C. 301 and 552 and published as part 1 of this title, 32 FR No. 127, July 1, 1967, except for § 1.7 of this title entitled “Appeal,” shall govern the availability of Bureau of the Mint records.
(b) Determination of availability. The Director of the Mint delegates authority to the following Mint officials to determine, in accordance with part 1 of this title, which of the records or information requested is available, subject to the appeal provided in § 92.6: The Deputy Director of the Mint, Division Heads in the Office of the Director, and the Superintendent or Officer in Charge of the field office where the record is located.
Determination of availability.
The Director of the Mint delegates authority to the following Mint officials to determine, in accordance with part 1 of this title, which of the records or information requested is available, subject to the appeal provided in § 92.6: The Deputy Director of the Mint, Division Heads in the Office of the Director, and the Superintendent or Officer in Charge of the field office where the record is located.
(c) Requests for identifiable records. A written request for an identifiable record shall be addressed to the Director of the Mint, Washington, DC 20220. A request presented in person shall be made in the public reading room of the Treasury Department, 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC, or in such other office designated by the Director of the Mint.
Requests for identifiable records.
A written request for an identifiable record shall be addressed to the Director of the Mint, Washington, DC 20220. A request presented in person shall be made in the public reading room of the Treasury Department, 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC, or in such other office designated by the Director of the Mint.

§ 92.6   Appeal.

Any person denied access to records requested under § 92.5 may file an appeal to the Director of the Mint within 30 days after notification of such denial. The appeal shall provide the name and address of the appellant, the identification of the record denied, and the date of the original request and its denial.

Subpart C—Assessment of Civil Penalties for Misuse of Words, Letters, Symbols, or Emblems of the United States Mint

[Source:72 FR 60776, Oct. 26, 2007, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
72 FR 60776, Oct. 26, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

§ 92.11   Purpose.

(a) The procedures in this subpart implement the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 333(c), which authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to assess a civil penalty against any person who has misused the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges of the United States Mint in violation of 31 U.S.C. 333(a).
(b) The procedures in this subpart do not apply to the extent that the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the United States Mint, or their authorized designees have specifically granted to the person express permission, in writing, to manufacture, produce, sell, possess, or use the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges in a contract, agreement, license, letter, memorandum, or similar document.
(c) The procedures in this subpart are limited to actions initiated by the United States Mint to enforce the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 333. The procedures herein do not affect the provisions of 31 CFR part 27. Therefore, this subpart shall not be construed as the exclusive means for the Secretary of the Treasury to enforce 31 U.S.C. 333 insofar as a covered misuse affects the United States Mint.

§ 92.12   Definitions.

(a) Assessing official means the Director of the United States Mint or his designee.
Assessing official
means the Director of the United States Mint or his designee.
(b) Examining official means an employee of the United States Mint appointed by the Director of the United States Mint (or an employee of the Treasury Department appointed by the Director of the United States Mint with the concurrence of the head of that employee's organization), to administer the procedures in this subpart in a particular case and to propose findings and recommendations in that case to the assessing official. The examining official must be:
Examining official
means an employee of the United States Mint appointed by the Director of the United States Mint (or an employee of the Treasury Department appointed by the Director of the United States Mint with the concurrence of the head of that employee's organization), to administer the procedures in this subpart in a particular case and to propose findings and recommendations in that case to the assessing official. The examining official must be:
(1) An employee of the Treasury Department in the grade of GS-15 or higher; and
(2) Capable of examining the matter without actual or apparent conflict of interest.
(c) Broadcast or telecast means widespread dissemination by electronic transmission or method, whether audio and/or visual.
Broadcast
or
telecast
means widespread dissemination by electronic transmission or method, whether audio and/or visual.
(d) Civil penalty means a civil monetary penalty
Civil penalty
means a civil monetary penalty
(e) Date of offense means the later of:
Date of offense
means the later of:
(1) The date that the misuse occurred;
(2) The date that the misuse had the effect of conveying the false impression that the activity was associated with or approved, endorsed, sponsored or authorized by the United States Mint or its officers or employees; or
(3) If the violation is a continuing one, the date on which the misuse of the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges protected by 31 U.S.C. 333 or the procedures in this subpart last occurred.
(f) Days means calendar days, unless otherwise stated.
Days
means calendar days, unless otherwise stated.
(g) Person means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, company, business, firm, manufacturer, or any other organization, entity, or institution.
Person
means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, company, business, firm, manufacturer, or any other organization, entity, or institution.
(h) Respondent means a person named in an Initial Notice of Assessment.
Respondent
means a person named in an Initial Notice of Assessment.
(i) Symbol means any design or graphic used by the United States Mint or the Treasury Department to represent themselves or their products. A design or graphic may include
Symbol
means any design or graphic used by the United States Mint or the Treasury Department to represent themselves or their products. A design or graphic may include
(1) A trademark, designation of origin, or mark of identification, or
(2) A stylized depiction comprising letters, words, or numbers.

§ 92.13   Assessment of civil penalties.

(a) General rule. The assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person when the following two conditions are met:
General rule.
The assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person when the following two conditions are met:
(1) That person uses in connection with, or as a part of, any advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product, whether alone or with other words, letters, symbols, or emblems—
(i) The words “Department of the Treasury,” “United States Mint,” or “U.S. Mint”;
(ii) The titles “Secretary of the Treasury,” “Treasurer of the United States,” “Director of the United States Mint,” or “Director of the U.S. Mint”;
(iii) The abbreviations or initials of any entity or title referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section;
(iv) Any symbol, emblem, seal, or badge of an entity referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section (including the design of any envelope, stationery, or identification card used by such an entity); or
(v) Any colorable imitation of any such words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges; and
(2) That person's use is in a manner that could reasonably be interpreted or construed as conveying the false impression that such advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product is in any manner approved, endorsed, sponsored, authorized by, or associated with the United States Mint, or any officer, or employee thereof.
(b) Disclaimers. Any determination of whether a person has violated the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be made without regard to any use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government or any particular agency or instrumentality thereof.
Disclaimers.
Any determination of whether a person has violated the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be made without regard to any use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government or any particular agency or instrumentality thereof.
(c) Civil penalty. The assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of a civil penalty shall not exceed $5,000 for each and every use of any material in violation of paragraph (a) of this section, except that such penalty shall not exceed $25,000 for each and every use if such use is in a broadcast or telecast.
Civil penalty.
The assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of a civil penalty shall not exceed $5,000 for each and every use of any material in violation of paragraph (a) of this section, except that such penalty shall not exceed $25,000 for each and every use if such use is in a broadcast or telecast.
(d) Time limitations. (1) Civil penalties imposed under the procedures in this subpart must be assessed before the end of the three-year period beginning on the date of offense.
Time limitations.
(1) Civil penalties imposed under the procedures in this subpart must be assessed before the end of the three-year period beginning on the date of offense.
(2) The assessing official may commence a civil action to recover or enforce any civil penalty imposed in a Final Notice of Assessment issued pursuant to § 92.17 at any time before the end of the two-year period beginning on the date of the Final Notice of Assessment. If judicial review of the Final Notice of Assessment is sought, the two-year period begins to run from the date that a final and unappealable court order is issued.
(e) Criminal Proceeding. No civil penalty may be imposed under the procedures in this subpart with respect to any violation of paragraph (a) of this section after a criminal proceeding on the same violation has been commenced by indictment or information under 31 U.S.C. 333(d).
Criminal Proceeding.
No civil penalty may be imposed under the procedures in this subpart with respect to any violation of paragraph (a) of this section after a criminal proceeding on the same violation has been commenced by indictment or information under 31 U.S.C. 333(d).

§ 92.14   Initiation of action.

(a) When an employee of the United States Mint learns of or discovers a potential violation of 31 U.S.C. 333 or this subpart, he or she will refer the matter, with all available evidence, to the assessing official.
(b) The assessing official will consider relevant factors when determining whether to initiate an action to impose a civil penalty under the procedures in this subpart. Those factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) The scope of the misuse;
(2) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;
(3) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;
(4) The circumstances of the misuse;
(5) The commercial benefit intended to be derived from the misuse; and
(6) The repeated nature of the misuse.
(c) If the assessing official decides to initiate an action to impose a civil penalty under the procedures in this subpart, he or she will, in writing:
(1) Appoint an examining official; and
(2) Delegate to the examining official the authority to prepare, sign, and serve an Initial Notice of Assessment on behalf of the assessing official.

§ 92.15   Initial notice of assessment.

The examining official shall review all immediately available evidence on the matter; determine a proposed civil penalty based on the factors listed under § 92.16(d)(2)(iii); and prepare and serve an Initial Notice of Assessment by United States mail or other means upon the person believed to be in violation of § 92.13 and otherwise subject to a civil penalty. The notice shall provide the name and telephone number of the examining official, who can provide information concerning the notice and the procedures in this subpart. The notice shall include the following:
(a) A specific reference to the provisions of § 92.13 violated;
(b) A concise statement of the facts that support the conclusion that such a violation occurred;
(c) The amount of the civil penalty proposed and the maximum amount of the potential civil penalty that the assessing official could impose;
(d) A notice informing the person alleged to be in violation of § 92.13 that he or she:
(1) May, within 30 days of the date of the notice, pay the proposed civil penalty, thereby waiving the right to make a written response under § 92.16 and to seek judicial review under § 92.18:
(i) By electronic funds transfer (EFT) in accordance with instructions provided by the examining official in the Initial Notice of Assessment; or
(ii) By means other than EFT only with the written approval of the assessing official;
(2) May make a written response in accordance with § 92.16 within 30 days of the date of the notice addressing, as appropriate:
(i) Why a civil penalty should not be imposed; and
(ii) Why a civil penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(3) May be represented by an attorney or other representative, provided that a designation of representative signed by the person alleged to be in violation is received by the examining official; and
(4) May request, within 20 days of the date of the notice, a copy of or opportunity to review any documents and/or other evidence that the United States Mint compiled and relied on in determining to issue the notice (the assessing official reserves the right to assert privileges available under law and may decline to disclose certain documents and/or other evidence protected by such privileges; however, any documents or other evidence withheld from disclosure shall be expunged from the record and shall not be considered by the examining and assessing officials in arriving at their respective recommendations and decisions); and
(e) An advisement of the following:
(1) If no written response is received within the time allowed in § 92.16(b), a Final Notice of Assessment may be issued without a presentation by the person;
(2) If a written response has been made and the examining official deems it necessary, the examining official may request, orally or in writing, additional information from the respondent;
(3) A Final Notice of Assessment may be issued in accordance with § 92.17 requiring that the proposed civil penalty be paid;
(4) A Final Notice of Assessment is subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 701 et seq.; and
et seq.;
and
(5) All submissions sent in response to the Initial Notice of Assessment must be transmitted to the address specified in the notice and include the name, address, and telephone number of the respondent.

§ 92.16   Written response.

(a) Form and contents. (1) The written response submitted by a person pursuant to § 92.15(d)(2) must provide the following:
Form and contents.
(1) The written response submitted by a person pursuant to § 92.15(d)(2) must provide the following:
(i) A reference to and specific identification of the Initial Notice of Assessment involved;
(ii) The full name of the person against whom the Initial Notice of Assessment has been made;
(iii) If the respondent is not a natural person, the name and title of the officer authorized to act on behalf of the respondent; and
(iv) If a representative of the person named in the Initial Notice of Assessment is filing the written response, a copy of the duly executed designation as representative.
(2) The written response must admit or deny each violation of § 92.13 set forth in the Initial Notice of Assessment. Any violation not specifically denied will be presumed to be admitted. Where a violation is denied, the respondent shall specifically set forth the legal or factual basis upon which the allegation is denied. If the basis of the written response is that the respondent is not the person responsible for the alleged violation, the written response must set forth sufficient information to allow the examining and assessing officials to determine the truth of such an assertion. The written response should include any and all documents and other information that the respondent believes should be a part of the administrative record on the matter.
(b) Time. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this section must be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment.
Time.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this section must be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment.
(2) If a request for documents or other evidence is made pursuant to § 92.15(d)(4), the written response must be submitted not later than 20 days after the date of the United States Mint's response to the request.
(3)(i) In computing the number of days allowed for filing a written response under this paragraph, the first day counted is the day after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment is issued. If the last date on which the response is required to be filed by this paragraph is a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the response will be due on the next business day after that date.
(ii) If a response is transmitted by United States mail, it will be deemed timely filed if postmarked on or before the due date.
(4) The examining official may extend the period for making a written response under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section for up to ten days for good cause shown. Requests for extensions beyond ten days must be approved by the assessing official and must be based on good cause shown. Generally, failure to obtain representation in a timely manner will not be considered good cause.
(c) Filing. The response may be sent by personal delivery, United States mail or commercial delivery. A written response transmitted by means other than United States mail will be considered filed on the date received at the address specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment.
Filing.
The response may be sent by personal delivery, United States mail or commercial delivery. A written response transmitted by means other than United States mail will be considered filed on the date received at the address specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment.
(d) Review and Recommendation. The examining official will fully consider the facts and arguments submitted by the respondent in the written response, any other documents filed by the respondent pursuant to this subpart, and the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter. If the respondent waives the right to submit a written response in accordance with § 92.15(d)(1), or declines to submit a written response by the end of the 30-day response period, the examining official will fully consider the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter.
Review and Recommendation.
The examining official will fully consider the facts and arguments submitted by the respondent in the written response, any other documents filed by the respondent pursuant to this subpart, and the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter. If the respondent waives the right to submit a written response in accordance with § 92.15(d)(1), or declines to submit a written response by the end of the 30-day response period, the examining official will fully consider the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter.
(1) In fully considering the matter, the examining official will not consider any evidence introduced into the record by the United States Mint after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment unless and until the respondent has been notified that such additional evidence will be considered, and has had an opportunity to request, review and comment on such evidence.
(2) The examining official will prepare a concise report, addressed to the assessing official, which will contain the following:
(i) The entire administrative record on the matter, including all information provided in or with a written response timely filed by the respondent and any additional information provided pursuant to § 92.15(e)(2), as well as all evidence upon which the Initial Notice of Assessment was based, and any additional evidence as provided for in § 92.16(d)(1).
(ii) A finding, based on the preponderance of the evidence, as to each alleged violation specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment;
(iii) For each violation that the examining official determines to have occurred, a recommendation as to the appropriate amount of a civil penalty to be imposed which, upon additional consideration of the evidence, may be the same as, more than, or less than the amount initially proposed by the examining official pursuant to § 92.15. In making this recommendation, the examining official will consider all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the following:
(A) The scope of the misuse;
(B) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;
(C) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;
(D) The circumstances of the misuse;
(E) The commercial benefit intended to be derived from the misuse; and
(F) The repeated nature of the misuse.
(iv) If the examining official determines that a violation has occurred, a proposed Final Notice of Assessment that incorporates his or her findings and recommendations.
(v) Any additional information or considerations that the assessing officer should consider in a decision whether to issue a Final Notice of Assessment under § 92.17.

§ 92.17   Final action.

(a) In making a final determination whether to impose a penalty, the assessing official shall take into consideration the entire report prepared by the examining official. Although the assessing official should accord appropriate weight to the findings and recommendations of the examining official, the assessing official is not bound by them. The assessing official may approve, disapprove, modify, or substitute any or all of the examining official's findings and recommendations if, in his or her judgment, the evidence in the record supports such a decision. The assessing official will determine whether:
(1) The facts warrant a conclusion that no violation has occurred; or
(2)(i) The facts warrant a conclusion that one or more violations have occurred; and
(ii) The facts and violations found justify the conclusion that a civil penalty should be imposed.
(b) If the assessing official determines that no violation has occurred, the official shall promptly send a letter indicating that determination to the person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment and to any designated representative of such person.
(c) If the assessing official determines that a violation has occurred:
(1) The assessing official shall issue a Final Notice of Assessment to the person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment and to any designated representative of such person.
(2) The assessing official may, in his or her discretion:
(i) Impose a civil penalty;
(ii) Not impose a civil penalty; or
(iii) Impose a civil penalty and suspend the payment of all or some of the civil penalty, conditioned on the violator's future compliance with 31 U.S.C. 333.
(3) If a civil penalty is imposed under § 92.17(c)(2)(i) or (iii), the assessing official shall determine the appropriate amount of the penalty in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 333(c)(2). In determining the amount of a civil penalty, the assessing official will consider relevant factors including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) The scope of the misuse;
(ii) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;
(iii) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;
(iv) The circumstances of the misuse;
(v) The commercial benefit intended to be derived from the misuse; and
(vi) The repeated nature of the misuse.
(4) The Final Notice of Assessment shall:
(i) Include the following:
(A) A specific reference to each provision of § 92.13 found to have been violated;
(B) A concise statement of the facts supporting a conclusion that each violation has occurred;
(C) An analysis of how the facts and each violation justifies the conclusion that a civil penalty should be imposed; and
(D) The amount of each civil penalty imposed and a statement as to how the amount of each penalty was determined; and
(ii) Inform the person of the following:
(A) Payment of a civil penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment must be made within 30 days of the date of the notice;
(B) Payment of a civil penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment shall be paid by EFT in accordance with instructions provided in the notice, unless the assessing official has given written approval to have payment made by other means;
(C) If payment of a civil penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment has been suspended on the condition that the person comply in the future with 31 U.S.C. 333 and this subpart, the failure by the person to so comply will make the civil penalty payable on demand;
(D) If a civil penalty is not paid within 30 days of the date of the Final Notice of Assessment (or on demand under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D) of this section), a civil action to collect the penalty or enforce compliance may be commenced at any time within two years of the date of the Final Notice of Assessment; and
(E) Any civil penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment may be subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 701 et seq.
et seq.

§ 92.18   Judicial review.

A Final Notice of Assessment issued under the procedures in this subpart may be subject to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 701 et seq.
et seq.

PART 100—EXCHANGE OF PAPER CURRENCY AND COIN

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 321.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321.
[Source:47 FR 32044, July 23, 1982, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
47 FR 32044, July 23, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

§ 100.2   Scope of regulations; transactions effected through Federal Reserve banks and branches; distribution of coin and currencies.

(a) The regulations in this part govern the exchange of the coin and paper currency of the United States (including national bank notes and Federal Reserve bank notes in process of retirement and Federal Reserve notes). Under authorization in the Act approved May 29, 1920, 41 Stat. 655 (31 U.S.C. 476), the Secretary of the Treasury transferred to the Federal Reserve banks and branches the duties and functions performed by the former Assistant Treasurers of the United States in connection with the exchange of paper currency and coin of the United States. Except for the duties in this respect to be performed by the Treasurer of the United States and the Director of the Mint, as may be indicated from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury, exchanges of the paper currency and coin of the United States and the distribution and replacement thereof will, so far as practicable, be effected through the Federal Reserve banks and branches. The Federal Reserve banks and branches are authorized to distribute available supplies of coin and currency to depository institutions, as that term is defined in section 103 of the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-221). As authorized by section 107 of the Act, transportation of coin and currency and coin wrapping services will be provided according to a schedule of fees established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Inquiries by depository institutions regarding distribution and related services should be addressed to the Federal Reserve bank of the district where the institution is located.
(b) The Department of the Treasury has authorized amendments to this part by the following bureaus and offices:
(1) This section—Office of the Secretary.
(2) Subpart A—Office of the Secretary.
(3) Subpart B—Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
(4) Subpart C—United States Mint.
(5) Subpart D—Office of the Secretary.
[[47 FR 32044, July 23, 1982, as amended at 82 FR 60310, Dec. 20, 2017]]

Subpart A—In General


§ 100.3   Lawfully held coin and currencies in general.

The official agencies of the Department of the Treasury will continue to exchange lawfully held coins and currencies of the United States, dollar for dollar, for other coins and currencies which may be lawfully acquired and are legal tender for public and private debts. Paper currency of the United States which has been falsely altered and coins altered to render them for use as other denominations will not be redeemed since such currency and coins are subject to forfeiture under Title 18, United States Code, section 492. Persons receiving such currency and coins should notify immediately the nearest local office of the U.S. Secret Service of the Department of the Treasury, and hold the same pending advice from the Service.

§ 100.4   Gold coin and gold certificates in general.

Gold coins, and gold certificates of the type issued before January 30, 1934, are exchangeable, as provided in this part, into other currency or coin which may be lawfully issued.

Subpart B—Request for Examination of Mutilated Currency for Possible Redemption

[Source:79 FR 30725, May 29, 2014, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
79 FR 30725, May 29, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

§ 100.5   Mutilated paper currency.

(a) General. Lawfully held mutilated paper currency of the United States may be submitted for examination in accord with the provisions in this subpart. Such currency may be redeemed at face amount if sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature and clearly more than one-half of the original note remains. Fragments of such mutilated currency which are not clearly more than one-half of the original whole note or are lacking sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature will be redeemed at face value only if the Director, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury, is satisfied that the missing portions have been totally destroyed. The Director's judgment shall be based on such evidence of total destruction as is necessary and shall be final. Any submission under this subpart shall be deemed an acceptance of all provisions contained herein.
General.
Lawfully held mutilated paper currency of the United States may be submitted for examination in accord with the provisions in this subpart. Such currency may be redeemed at face amount if sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature and clearly more than one-half of the original note remains. Fragments of such mutilated currency which are not clearly more than one-half of the original whole note or are lacking sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature will be redeemed at face value only if the Director, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury, is satisfied that the missing portions have been totally destroyed. The Director's judgment shall be based on such evidence of total destruction as is necessary and shall be final. Any submission under this subpart shall be deemed an acceptance of all provisions contained herein.
(b) Definitions. The following definitions are used in this subpart:
Definitions.
The following definitions are used in this subpart:
Mutilated currency is currency which has been damaged to the extent that:
Mutilated currency
is currency which has been damaged to the extent that:
(i) One-half or less of the original note remains; or
(ii) Its condition is such that its value is questionable and the currency must be forwarded to the Department of the Treasury for the examination by trained experts before any redemption is made.
Unfit currency is currency which is unfit for further circulation because of its physical condition such as torn, dirty, limp, worn or defaced. Unfit currency should not be forwarded to the Department of the Treasury, but may be exchanged at commercial banks.
Unfit currency
is currency which is unfit for further circulation because of its physical condition such as torn, dirty, limp, worn or defaced. Unfit currency should not be forwarded to the Department of the Treasury, but may be exchanged at commercial banks.

§ 100.6   Destroyed paper currency.

No relief will be granted on account of lawfully held paper currency which has been totally destroyed.

§ 100.7   Treasury's redemption process.

(a) Lawful holders of mutilated currency may receive a redemption at full value when:
(1) Clearly more than 50% of a note identifiable as United States currency is present along with sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature; or
(2) Fifty percent or less of a note identifiable as United States currency is present and the method of mutilation and supporting evidence demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Treasury that the missing portions have been totally destroyed.
(b) No redemption will be made when:
(1) A submission, or any portion thereof, demonstrates a pattern of intentional mutilation or an attempt to defraud the United States. In such instances, the entire submission will be destroyed or retained as evidence.
(2) A submission appears to be part of, or intended to further, any criminal scheme. In such instances, the entire submission will be destroyed or retained as evidence.
(3) A submission contains a material misrepresentation of facts.
(4) Fragments and remnants presented are not identifiable as United States currency; or
(5) Fragments and remnants presented which represent 50% or less of a note are identifiable as United States currency but the method of destruction and supporting evidence do not satisfy the Treasury that the missing portion has been totally destroyed.
(c) Lawfully held mutilated currency in a submission that also contains counterfeit currency may be destroyed or retained as evidence, at the discretion of the Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
(d) All cases will be handled under proper procedures to safeguard the funds and interests of the submitter of lawfully held mutilated currency. In some cases, the amount redeemed will be less than the amount estimated by the submitter. In other cases, the amount redeemed may be greater. The amount redeemed will be determined by an examination made by trained mutilated currency examiners and governed by the above criteria.
(e) The Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing shall have final authority with respect to redemptions of mutilated currency submissions.
(f) All submissions for review shall include an estimate of the value of the currency and an explanation of how it came to be mutilated. The submission should also contain the bank account number and routing number for an account of a United States bank since all redemptions of $500 or more shall be made through Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).

§ 100.8   Packaging and shipping of mutilated currency.

Mutilated currency examiners are best able to determine the value of the currency when it has been carefully packed and boxed as described below. As a result, failure to follow the directions in this section may result in a denial of redemption:
(a) Regardless of the condition of the currency, do not disturb the fragments more than is absolutely necessary.
(b) If the currency is brittle or inclined to fall apart, pack it carefully in cotton and box it as found, without disturbing the fragments, if possible.
(c) If the currency was in a purse, box, or other container when mutilated, it should be left therein, if possible, in order to prevent further deterioration of the fragments or from their being lost.
(d) If it is absolutely necessary to remove the fragments from the container, send the container with the currency and any other contents found, except as noted in paragraph (g) of this section.
(e) If the currency was flat when mutilated, do not roll, fold, laminate, tape, glue or in any other way alter the currency in an attempt to preserve it.
(f) If the currency was in a roll when mutilated, do not attempt to unroll or straighten.
(g) If coin or any other metal is mixed with the currency, remove carefully. Do not send coin or other metal in the same package with mutilated paper currency, as the metal will break up the currency. Coin should be exchanged in accordance with subpart C of this part.
(h) Mutilated currency shipments must be addressed as follows:
(1) USPS Delivery—Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, MCD/OFM, Room 344A, Post Office Box 37048, Washington, DC 20013.
(2) Non Postal Courier (FEDEX/UPS)—Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, MCD/OFM, Room 344-A, 14th & C Streets SW., Washington, DC 20228.

§ 100.9   Notices.

(a) The Director may provide information pertaining to any mutilated currency submission to law enforcement officials or other third parties for purposes of investigation of related criminal activity or for purposes of seeking a civil judgment.
(b) Whoever mutilates currency with the intent to render it unfit to be reissued may be fined and/or imprisoned. 18 U.S.C. 333.
(c) Whoever intentionally files a false claim seeking reimbursement for mutilated currency may be held criminally liable under a number of statutes including 18 U.S.C. 287 and 18 U.S.C. 1341 and may be held civilly liable under 31 U.S.C. 3729, et seq.
et seq.

Subpart C—Request for Examination of Coin for Possible Redemption

[Source:82 FR 60311, Dec. 20, 2017, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
82 FR 60311, Dec. 20, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

§ 100.10   Request for examination of uncurrent coin for possible redemption.

(a) Definition. Uncurrent coins are whole U.S. coins which are merely worn or reduced in weight by natural abrasion yet are readily and clearly recognizable as to genuineness and denomination and which are machine countable.
Definition.
Uncurrent coins are whole U.S. coins which are merely worn or reduced in weight by natural abrasion yet are readily and clearly recognizable as to genuineness and denomination and which are machine countable.
(b) Redemption process. The United States Mint will not accept uncurrent coins for redemption. Members of the public wishing to redeem lawfully held uncurrent coins must deposit the uncurrent coins with a bank or other financial institution that will accept them, or with a depository institution that has established a direct customer relationship with a Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank will redeem uncurrent coins, based on the policies described in the Federal Reserve's Operating Circular 2.
Redemption process.
The United States Mint will not accept uncurrent coins for redemption. Members of the public wishing to redeem lawfully held uncurrent coins must deposit the uncurrent coins with a bank or other financial institution that will accept them, or with a depository institution that has established a direct customer relationship with a Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank will redeem uncurrent coins, based on the policies described in the Federal Reserve's Operating Circular 2.
(c) Criteria for acceptance. Depository institutions that redeem uncurrent coins must sort the coins by denomination into packages in accordance with the Federal Reserve's Operating Circular 2. The Federal Reserve Banks have the right to reject any shipment containing objects that are not U.S. coins or any contaminant that could render the uncurrent coins unsuitable for coinage metal.
Criteria for acceptance.
Depository institutions that redeem uncurrent coins must sort the coins by denomination into packages in accordance with the Federal Reserve's Operating Circular 2. The Federal Reserve Banks have the right to reject any shipment containing objects that are not U.S. coins or any contaminant that could render the uncurrent coins unsuitable for coinage metal.
(d) Redemption sites. The Federal Reserve Banks and branches listed in § 100.17 are the only authorized redemption sites at which a depository institution that has established a direct customer relationship with a Federal Reserve Bank may redeem uncurrent coins.
Redemption sites.
The Federal Reserve Banks and branches listed in § 100.17 are the only authorized redemption sites at which a depository institution that has established a direct customer relationship with a Federal Reserve Bank may redeem uncurrent coins.

§ 100.11   ]Reserved]


§ 100.12   Exchange of fused or mixed coin.

(a) Definitions. (1) Fused coins are U.S. coins which are melted to the extent that they are bonded together.
Definitions.
(1) Fused coins are U.S. coins which are melted to the extent that they are bonded together.
(2) Mixed coins are U.S. coins of several alloy categories which are presented together, but are readily and clearly identifiable as U.S. coins.
(b) Fused and mixed coins. The United States Mint will not accept fused or mixed coins for redemption.
Fused and mixed coins.
The United States Mint will not accept fused or mixed coins for redemption.
[[82 FR 60311, Dec. 20, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 78245, Sept. 25, 2024]]

§ 100.13   Notices.

(a) Criminal penalties connected with the defacement or mutilation of U.S. coins are provided in 18 U.S.C. 331.
(b) The Director of the United States Mint may provide information pertaining coin submissions to law enforcement officials or other third parties for purposes of investigating related criminal activity or for purposes of seeking a civil judgment.
(c) Whoever intentionally files a false claim seeking reimbursement for uncurrent, bent or partial coins may be held criminally liable under a number of statutes including 18 U.S.C. 287 and 18 U.S.C. 1341 and may be held civilly liable under 31 U.S.C. 3729, et seq.
et seq.
[[82 FR 60311, Dec. 20, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 78245, Sept. 25, 2024]]

Subpart D—Other Information


§ 100.16   Exchange of paper and coin to be handled through Federal Reserve banks and branches.

Other than as provided in this document all transactions including the exchange of paper currency and coin shall be handled through the Federal Reserve banks and branches.

§ 100.17   Location of Federal Reserve banks and branches.

Federal Reserve Bank and Address
Boston—600 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, MA 02106
New York—33 Liberty Street (Federal Reserve P.O. Station), New York, NY 10045
Buffalo Branch—160 Delaware Avenue (P.O. Box 961), Buffalo, NY 14240
Philadelphia—Ten Independence Mall (P.O. Box 66), Philadelphia, PA 19105
Cleveland—1455 East Sixth Street (P.O. Box 6387), Cleveland, OH 44101
Cincinnati Branch—150 East Fourth Street (P.O. Box 999), Cincinnati, OH 45201
Pittsburgh Branch—717 Grant Street (P.O. Box 867), Pittsburgh, PA 15230
Richmond—701 East Byrd Avenue (P.O. Box 27622), Richmond, VA 23261
Baltimore Branch—114-120 East Lexington Street (P.O. Box 1378), Baltimore, MD 21203
Charlotte Branch—530 East Trade Street (P.O. Box 30248), Charlotte, NC 28230
Atlanta—104 Marietta Street, NW., Atlanta, GA 30303
Birmingham Branch—1801 Fifth Avenue, North (P.O. Box 830447), Birmingham, AL 35283-0447
Jacksonville Branch—800 Water Street (P.O. Box 929) Jacksonville, FL 32231-0044
Miami Branch—9100 NW., 36th Street (P.O. Box 520847), Miami, FL 33152
Nashville Branch—301 Eighth Avenue, North, Nashville, TN 37203
New Orleans Branch—525 St. Charles Avenue (P.O. Box 61630), New Orleans, LA 70161
Chicago—230 South LaSalle Street (P.O. Box 834), Chicago, IL 60690
Detroit Branch—160 Fort Street, West (P.O. Box 1059), Detroit, MI 48231
St. Louis—411 Locust Street (P.O. Box 442), St. Louis, MO 63166
Little Rock Branch—325 West Capitol Avenue (P.O. Box 1261), Little Rock, AR 72203
Louisville Branch—410 South Fifth Street (P.O. Box 32710), Louisville, KY 40232
Memphis Branch—200 North Main Street (P.O. Box 407), Memphis, TN 38101
Minneapolis—250 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55480
Helena Branch—400 North Park Avenue, Helena, MT 59601
Kansas City—925 Grand Avenue (Federal Reserve Station), Kansas City, MO 64198
Denver Branch—1020 16th Street (P.O. Box 5228, Terminal Annex), Denver, CO 80217
Oklahoma City Branch—226 Dean A. McGee Street (P.O. Box 25129), Oklahoma City, OK 73125
Omaha Branch—2201 Farnam Street (P.O. Box 3958), Omaha, NB 68103
Dallas—400 South Akard Street (Station K), Dallas, TX 75222
El Paso Branch—301 East Main Street (P.O. Box 100), El Paso, TX 79999
Houston Branch—1701 San Jacinto Street (P.O. Box 2578), Houston, TX 77001
San Antonio Branch—126 East Nueva Street (P.O. Box 1471), San Antonio, TX 78295
San Francisco—400 Sansome Street (P.O. Box 7702), San Francisco, CA 94120
Los Angeles Branch—950 South Grand Avenue (Terminal Annex, P.O. Box 2077), Los Angeles CA 90051
Portland Branch—915 SW Stark Street (P.O. Box 3436), Portland, OR 97208
Salt Lake City Branch—120 South State Street (P.O. Box 30780), Salt Lake City, UT 84125
Seattle Branch—1015 Second Avenue (P.O. Box 3567), Seattle, WA 98124
[[47 FR 32044, July 23, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 10170, Mar. 11, 1991]]

§ 100.18   Counterfeit notes to be marked; “redemption” of notes wrongfully so marked.

The Act of June 30, 1876 (19 Stat. 4; 31 U.S.C. 424), provides that all U.S. Officers charged with the receipt or disbursement of public moneys, and all officers of national banks, shall stamp or write in plain letters the word “counterfeit,” “altered,” or “worthless” upon all fraudulent notes issued in the form of, and intended to circulate as money, which shall be presented at their places of business; and if such officers shall wrongfully stamp any genuine note of the United States, or of the national bank, they shall, upon presentation, “redeem” such notes at the face amount thereof.

§ 100.19   Disposition of counterfeit notes and coins.

All counterfeit notes and coin found in remittances are cancelled and delivered to the U.S. Secret Service of the Department of the Treasury or to the nearest local office of that Service, a receipt for the same being forwarded to the sender. Communications with respect thereto should be addressed to the Director, U.S. Secret Service, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20223.

PART 101—MITIGATION OF FORFEITURE OF COUNTERFEIT GOLD COINS

[Authority:18 U.S.C. 492.]
Authority:
18 U.S.C. 492.
[Source:42 FR 1472, Jan. 7, 1977, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
42 FR 1472, Jan. 7, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

§ 101.1   Purpose and scope.

The purpose of this part is to establish a policy whereby certain purchasers or holders of gold coins who have forfeited them to the United States because they were counterfeit may, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, recover the gold bullion from the coins. This part sets forth the procedures to be followed in implementing this policy.

§ 101.2   Petitions for mitigation.

(a) Who may file. Any person may petition the Secretary of the Treasury for return of the gold bullion of counterfeit gold coins forfeited to the United States, if:
Who may file.
Any person may petition the Secretary of the Treasury for return of the gold bullion of counterfeit gold coins forfeited to the United States, if:
(1) The petitioner innocently purchased or received the coins and held them without the knowledge that they were counterfeit; and,
(2) The petitioner voluntarily submitted the coins to the Treasury Department for a determination of whether they were legitimate or counterfeit; and,
(3) The coins were determined to be counterfeit and were seized by the Treasury Department and forfeited to the United States.
(b) To whom addressed. Petitions for mitigation of the forfeiture of counterfeit gold coins should be addressed to the Assistant Secretary, Enforcement, Operations, Tariff Affairs, Department of Treasury, 15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
To whom addressed.
Petitions for mitigation of the forfeiture of counterfeit gold coins should be addressed to the Assistant Secretary, Enforcement, Operations, Tariff Affairs, Department of Treasury, 15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Form. The petition need not be in any particular form, but must be under oath, and set forth at least the following:
Form.
The petition need not be in any particular form, but must be under oath, and set forth at least the following:
(1) The full name and address of the petitioner;
(2) A description of the coin or coins involved;
(3) The name and address of the person from whom the coins were received or purchased by the petitioner;
(4) The date and place where they were voluntarily submitted for examination;
(5) Any other circumstances relied upon by the petitioner to justify the mitigation;
(6) A statement that the petitioner purchased or received and held the coins without the knowledge that they were counterfeit.

§ 101.3   Petitions reviewed by Assistant Secretary, Enforcement, Operations, Tariff Affairs.

(a) The Assistant Secretary will receive and review all petitions for mitigation of the forfeiture of counterfeit gold coins. He shall conduct such further investigation, and may request such further information from the petitioner as he deems necessary. Petitions will be approved if the Assistant Secretary determines that:
(1) The gold coins have not been previously disposed of by normal procedures;
(2) The petitioner was an innocent purchaser or holder of the gold coins and is not under investigation in connection with the coins at the time of submission or thereafter;
(3) The coins are not needed and will not be needed in the future in any investigation or as evidence in legal proceedings; and
(4) Mitigation of the forfeiture is in the best interest of the Government.

§ 101.4   Extraction of gold bullion from the counterfeit coins.

If the petition is approved, the Assistant Secretary shall then forward the gold coins to the Bureau of the Mint where, if economically feasible, the gold bullion will be extracted from the counterfeit coins. The Bureau of the Mint will then return the bullion to the Assistant Secretary.

§ 101.5   Payment of smelting costs.

The petitioner shall be required to pay all reasonable costs incurred in extracting the bullion from the counterfeit coins, as shall be determined by the Assistant Secretary. Payment must be made prior to the return of the gold bullion to the petitioner.

§ 101.6   Return of the bullion.

After receiving the gold bullion from the Bureau of the Mint, the Assistant Secretary shall notify the petitioner that his petition has been approved and that payment of the smelting costs in an amount set forth in such notice must be made prior to the return of the bullion.

§ 101.7   Exceptions.

The provisions of this part shall not apply where the cost of smelting the gold coins exceeds the value of the gold bullion to be returned.

§ 101.8   Discretion of the Secretary.

The Secretary of the Treasury retains complete discretion to deny any claim of any petitioner when the Secretary believes it is not in the best interest of the Government to return the bullion to the petitioner or when the Secretary is not convinced that the petitoner was an innocent purchaser or holder without knowledge that the gold coins were counterfeit.

PART 123 [RESERVED]


PART 128—REPORTING OF INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL AND FOREIGN-CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS AND POSITIONS

[Authority:22 U.S.C. 286f and 3101 et seq.; 31 U.S.C. 5315 and 5321.]
Authority:
22 U.S.C. 286f and 3101
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 5315 and 5321.
[Source:58 FR 58495, Nov. 2, 1993, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
58 FR 58495, Nov. 2, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 128.1   General reporting requirements.

(a) International capital transactions and positions. (1) In order to implement the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.); and E.O. 11961, and to obtain information requested by the International Monetary Fund under the articles of agreement of the Fund pursuant to section 8(a) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286f) and E.O. 10033, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are required to report information pertaining to—
International capital transactions and positions.
(1) In order to implement the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
); and E.O. 11961, and to obtain information requested by the International Monetary Fund under the articles of agreement of the Fund pursuant to section 8(a) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286f) and E.O. 10033, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are required to report information pertaining to—
(i) United States claims on, and liabilities to, foreigners;
(ii) Transactions in securities and other financial assets with foreigners; and
(iii) The monetary reserves of the United States.
(2) Data pertaining to direct investment transactions are not required to be reported under this part.
(3) Reports shall be made in such manner and at such intervals as specified by the Secretary of the Treasury. See subpart B of this part for additional requirements concerning these reports.
(b) Foreign currency positions. (1) In order to provide data on the nature and source of flows of mobile capital, including transactions by large United States business enterprises (as determined by the Secretary) and their foreign affiliates as required by 31 U.S.C. 5315, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are required to report information pertaining to—
Foreign currency positions.
(1) In order to provide data on the nature and source of flows of mobile capital, including transactions by large United States business enterprises (as determined by the Secretary) and their foreign affiliates as required by 31 U.S.C. 5315, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are required to report information pertaining to—
(i) Transactions in foreign exchange;
(ii) Transfers of credit that are, in whole or part, denominated in a foreign currency; and
(iii) The creation or acquisition of claims that reference transactions, holdings, or evaluations of foreign exchange.
(2) Reports shall be made in such manner and at such intervals as specified by the Secretary. See subpart C of this part for additional requirements concerning these reports.
(c) Notice of reports. Notice of reports required by this part, specification of persons required to file report, and forms to be used to file reports will be published in the Federal Register. Persons currently required to file reports shall continue to file such reports using existing Treasury International Capital Forms BL-1/BL-1(SA), BL-2/BL-2(SA), BL-3, BC/BC(SA), BQ-1, BQ-2, CM, CQ-1, CQ-2, S, and existing Treasury Foreign Currency Forms FC-1, FC-2, FC-3, and FC-4 until further notice is published in the Federal Register.
Notice of reports.
Notice of reports required by this part, specification of persons required to file report, and forms to be used to file reports will be published in the
Federal Register.
Persons currently required to file reports shall continue to file such reports using existing Treasury International Capital Forms BL-1/BL-1(SA), BL-2/BL-2(SA), BL-3, BC/BC(SA), BQ-1, BQ-2, CM, CQ-1, CQ-2, S, and existing Treasury Foreign Currency Forms FC-1, FC-2, FC-3, and FC-4 until further notice is published in the
Federal Register.

§ 128.2   Manner of reporting.

(a) Methods of reporting—(1) Prescribed forms. (i) Except as provided in § 128.2(a)(2), reports required by this part shall be made on forms prescribed by the Secretary. The forms and accompanying instructions will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).
Methods of reporting
—(1)
Prescribed forms.
(i) Except as provided in § 128.2(a)(2), reports required by this part shall be made on forms prescribed by the Secretary. The forms and accompanying instructions will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).
(ii) Copies of forms and instructions prescribed by the Secretary for reporting under this Part may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank, or from the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220.
(2) Alternative methods of reporting. In lieu of reporting on forms prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to this part, reports may be filed on magnetic tape or other media acceptable to, and approved in writing by, the Federal Reserve district bank with which the report is filed, or by the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy) in the case of a special exception filing pursuant to § 128.2(b)(3). The Secretary may require that magnetic tape or other machine-readable media, or other rapid means of communication be used for filing special survey reports under subpart B or C of this part.
Alternative methods of reporting.
In lieu of reporting on forms prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to this part, reports may be filed on magnetic tape or other media acceptable to, and approved in writing by, the Federal Reserve district bank with which the report is filed, or by the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy) in the case of a special exception filing pursuant to § 128.2(b)(3). The Secretary may require that magnetic tape or other machine-readable media, or other rapid means of communication be used for filing special survey reports under subpart B or C of this part.
(b) Filing of periodic reports—(1) Banks and other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, and bank holding companies. Except as provided in § 128.2(b)(3), each bank, depository institution, International Banking Facility, and bank holding company in the United States required to file periodic reports under subpart B or C of this part shall file such reports with the Federal Reserve bank of the district in which such bank, depository institution, International Banking Facility or bank holding company has its principal place of business in the United States.
Filing of periodic reports
—(1)
Banks and other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, and bank holding companies.
Except as provided in § 128.2(b)(3), each bank, depository institution, International Banking Facility, and bank holding company in the United States required to file periodic reports under subpart B or C of this part shall file such reports with the Federal Reserve bank of the district in which such bank, depository institution, International Banking Facility or bank holding company has its principal place of business in the United States.
(2) Nonbanking enterprises and other persons. Except as provided in § 128.2(b)(3), nonbanking enterprises and other persons in the United States required to file periodic reports under subpart B or C of this part shall file such reports with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Nonbanking enterprises and other persons.
Except as provided in § 128.2(b)(3), nonbanking enterprises and other persons in the United States required to file periodic reports under subpart B or C of this part shall file such reports with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
(3) Special exceptions. If a respondent described in § 128.2(b)(1) or (2) is unable to file with a Federal Reserve district bank, such respondent shall file periodic reports with the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220, or as otherwise provided in the instructions to the periodic report forms.
Special exceptions.
If a respondent described in § 128.2(b)(1) or (2) is unable to file with a Federal Reserve district bank, such respondent shall file periodic reports with the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220, or as otherwise provided in the instructions to the periodic report forms.
(c) Filing of special survey reports. All respondents required to file special survey reports under subpart B or C of this part file such reports as provided in § 128.2(b) unless otherwise provided in the instructions to the special survey reports.
Filing of special survey reports.
All respondents required to file special survey reports under subpart B or C of this part file such reports as provided in § 128.2(b) unless otherwise provided in the instructions to the special survey reports.

§ 128.3   Use of information reported.

(a) Except for use in violation and enforcement proceedings pursuant to the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act, 22 U.S.C. 3101 et seq., information submitted by any individual respondent on reports required under subpart B of this part may be used only for analytical and statistical purposes within the United States Government and will not be disclosed publicly by the Department of the Treasury, or by any other Federal agency or Federal Reserve district bank having access to the information as provided herein. Aggregate data derived from these forms may be published or otherwise publicly disclosed only in a manner which will not reveal the amounts reported by any individual respondent. The Department may furnish information from these forms to the Federal Reserve Board and to Federal agencies to the extent permitted by applicable law.
et seq.,
information submitted by any individual respondent on reports required under subpart B of this part may be used only for analytical and statistical purposes within the United States Government and will not be disclosed publicly by the Department of the Treasury, or by any other Federal agency or Federal Reserve district bank having access to the information as provided herein. Aggregate data derived from these forms may be published or otherwise publicly disclosed only in a manner which will not reveal the amounts reported by any individual respondent. The Department may furnish information from these forms to the Federal Reserve Board and to Federal agencies to the extent permitted by applicable law.
(b) The information submitted by any individual respondent on reports required under subpart C of this part will not be disclosed publicly. Aggregated data may be published or disclosed only in a manner which will not reveal the information reported by any individual respondent. The Department may furnish to Federal agencies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and to Federal Reserve district banks data reported pursuant to subpart C of this part to the extent permitted by applicable law.

§ 128.4   Penalties.

(a) Whoever fails to file a report required by subpart B of this part shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $2,500 and not more than $25,000
(b) Whoever willfully fails to file a report required by subpart B of this part may be criminally prosecuted and upon conviction fined not more than $10,000 and, if an individual (including any officer, director, employee, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation), may be imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(c) Whoever fails to file a report required by subpart C of this part shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $10,000.

§ 128.5   Recordkeeping requirements.

Banks, other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, bank holding companies, brokers and dealers, and nonbanking enterprises subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall maintain all information necessary to make a complete report pursuant to this Part for not less than three years from the date such report is required to be filed or was filed, whichever is later, or for such shorter period as may be specified in the instructions to the applicable report form.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1505-0149)

Subpart B—Reports on International Capital Transactions and Positions


§ 128.11   Purpose of reports.

Reports on international capital transactions and positions provide timely and reliable information on international portfolio capital movements by U.S. persons. This information is needed for preparation of the capital accounts of the United States balance of payments and the international investment position of the United States.

§ 128.12   Periodic reports.

(a) International capital positions. (1) Banks and other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, bank holding companies, and brokers and dealers in the United States shall file monthly, quarterly and semiannual reports with respect to specified claims and liabilities positions with foreigners held for their own account and for the accounts of their customers.
International capital positions.
(1) Banks and other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, bank holding companies, and brokers and dealers in the United States shall file monthly, quarterly and semiannual reports with respect to specified claims and liabilities positions with foreigners held for their own account and for the accounts of their customers.
(2) Nonbanking enterprises in the United States not described in § 128.12(a)(1) shall file monthly and quarterly reports with respect to deposits and certificates of deposit with banks outside the United States and specified claims and liabilities positions with unaffiliated foreigners.
(b) Transactions in certain domestic and foreign long-term securities. Banks and nonbanking enterprises in the United States shall file monthly reports on their transactions in domestic and foreign long-term securities or other financial assets with foreign residents.
Transactions in certain domestic and foreign long-term securities.
Banks and nonbanking enterprises in the United States shall file monthly reports on their transactions in domestic and foreign long-term securities or other financial assets with foreign residents.
(c) Notice of periodic reports. Notice of periodic reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).
Notice of periodic reports.
Notice of periodic reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).

§ 128.13   Special survey reports.

The Secretary may prescribe special survey reports at such times as the Secretary determines there is a need for detailed information on the aggregate data derived from current periodic reports or to provide additional qualitative information with respect to such data. Notice of special survey reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).

Subpart C—Reports on Foreign Currency Positions


§ 128.21   Purpose of reports.

Reports by respondents on foreign currency positions provide data on the nature and source of flows of mobile capital, including transactions by large United States business enterprises (as determined by the Secretary) and their foreign affiliates as required by 31 U.S.C. 5315.

§ 128.22   Periodic reports.

Respondents shall file reports weekly, monthly and quarterly on the value of such items as outstanding foreign exchange contracts, dealing positions, derivative foreign currency instruments, and other assets and liabilities denominated in the currencies specified on the forms. Notice of periodic reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).

§ 128.23   Special survey reports.

The Secretary may prescribe special survey reports with respect to foreign exchange positions and related information at such times as the Secretary determines that there is a need for prompt or expanded information on current conditions in the foreign exchange markets. Notice of special survey reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).

Appendix A to Part 128—Determination Made by National Advisory Council Pursuant to Section 2 (

a
) and (
b
) of E.O. 10033
I. Determination of the National Advisory Council pursuant to E.O. 10033
In an action dated September 7, 1965, the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems made the following determination pursuant to section 2(a) of E.O. 10033 of February 8, 1949.
Action 65 (E.O.)-49. The National Advisory Council, having consulted with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, determines the current information with respect to international capital movements, derived from data on U.S. liabilities to and claims on foreigners and transactions in securities with foreigners, and current information with respect to U.S. gold holdings, foreign-currency holdings, and dollar liabilities to foreigners, are essential in order that the United States may comply with official requests of the International Monetary Fund for information with respect to the U.S. balance of payments and monetary reserves.
Action 65 (E.O.)-49.
The National Advisory Council, having consulted with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, determines the current information with respect to international capital movements, derived from data on U.S. liabilities to and claims on foreigners and transactions in securities with foreigners, and current information with respect to U.S. gold holdings, foreign-currency holdings, and dollar liabilities to foreigners, are essential in order that the United States may comply with official requests of the International Monetary Fund for information with respect to the U.S. balance of payments and monetary reserves.
Action No. 320, March 17, 1949 is superseded by this determination and is hereby revoked.
II. Designation of the Treasury Department by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget pursuant to section 2(b) of E.O. 10033.
On December 1, 1965, the Treasury Department was designated, pursuant to section 2(b) of E.O. 10033 of February 8, 1949, to collect information for the International Monetary Fund under the National Advisory Council determination of September 7, 1965. The letter containing the designation reads as follows:
December 1, 1965.
Hon. Henry H. Fowler,
Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220.
Dear Mr. Secretary: On September 7, 1965, the National Advisory Council after consultation with this Bureau in accordance with section 2(a) of Executive Order 10033, made the following determination (Action 65 (E.O.)-49:
“The National Advisory Council, having consulted with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, determines that current information with respect to international capital movements, derived from data on U.S. liabilities to claims on foreigners and transactions in securities with foreigners, and current information with respect to U.S. gold holdings, foreign-currency holdings, and dollar liabilities to foreigners, are essential in order that the United States may comply with official requests of the International Monetary Fund for information with respect to the U.S. balance of payments and monetary reserves.”
It is hereby determined pursuant to section 2(b) of Executive Order 10033, that the Treasury Department shall collect information pertaining to capital movements between the United States and foreign countries and pertaining to the monetary reserves of the United States, except information pertaining to direct-investment transactions, U.S. Government foreign lending operations, and claims and liabilities of U.S. Government agencies (other than public debt obligations), which is collected by the Department of Commerce.
This letter supersedes the earlier determination as to the responsibilities of the Treasury Department in this area, dated April 21, 1949, as amended May 4, 1950.
Sincerely yours,
Raymond T. Bowman,
Assistant Director for Statistical Standards.

PART 129—PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT SURVEY REPORTING

[Authority:22 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.; E.O. 11961, 42 FR 4321, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 86.]
Authority:
22 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.;
E.O. 11961, 42 FR 4321, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 86.
[Source:58 FR 30707, May 27, 1993, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
58 FR 30707, May 27, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

§ 129.1   Purpose.

The purpose of this part is to provide general information on portfolio investment survey data collection programs and analyses under the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act ((formerly the International Investment Survey Act of 1976) (the “Act”)). The purpose of the Act is to provide for the collection of comprehensive and reliable information concerning international investment, including portfolio investment. The Act specifies that regular data collection programs and surveys specified by the Act or deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Treasury shall be conducted to secure information on international capital flows and other information related to international portfolio investment, including information that may be necessary for computing and analyzing the United States balance of payments.

§ 129.2   Definitions.

For purposes of the Act and for reporting requirements under this Part:
(a) United States, when used in a geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
United States,
when used in a geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
(b) Foreign, when used in a geographic sense, means that which is situated outside the United States or which belongs to or is characteristic of a country other than the United States.
Foreign,
when used in a geographic sense, means that which is situated outside the United States or which belongs to or is characteristic of a country other than the United States.
(c) Person means any individual, branch, partnership, associated group, association, estate, trust, corporation, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State), and any government (including a foreign government, the United States Government, a State or local government, and any agency, corporation, financial institution, or other entity or instrumentality thereof, including a government-sponsored agency).
Person
means any individual, branch, partnership, associated group, association, estate, trust, corporation, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State), and any government (including a foreign government, the United States Government, a State or local government, and any agency, corporation, financial institution, or other entity or instrumentality thereof, including a government-sponsored agency).
(d) United States person means any person resident in the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
United States person
means any person resident in the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(e) Foreign person means any person resident outside the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of a country other than the United States.
Foreign person
means any person resident outside the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of a country other than the United States.
(f) Foreign parent means any foreign person who owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated United States business enterprise, or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated United States business enterprise.
Foreign parent
means any foreign person who owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated United States business enterprise, or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated United States business enterprise.
(g) Reporter means a United States person required to file a report.
Reporter
means a United States person required to file a report.
(h) Foreign official institution means central governments of foreign countries and their possessions, including recognized central banks of issue.
Foreign official institution
means central governments of foreign countries and their possessions, including recognized central banks of issue.

§ 129.3   Reporting requirements.

(a) Notice of specific reporting requirements, including who is required to report, the information to be reported, the manner of reporting, and the time and place of filing reports, will be published by the Secretary of the Treasury in the Federal Register prior to the implementation of each survey or study.
Federal Register
prior to the implementation of each survey or study.
(b) Written responses are required from all reporters.
(c) Information required from reporters shall be furnished under oath.

§ 129.4   Recordkeeping requirement.

Reporters shall maintain all information used in preparing a report under this part for the period specified in the notice published by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 129.3, and shall make this information available for review and inspection at the request of the Department of the Treasury.

§ 129.5   Confidentiality.

(a) Information collected pursuant to the Act will be kept in confidence.
(b) Access to information collected pursuant to the Act shall be available only to officials and employees (including consultants and contractors and their employees) designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to perform functions under the Act.
(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed to require any Federal agency to disclose information otherwise protected by law.
(d) No person can compel the submission or disclosure of reports, or constituent parts thereof, or copies of such reports or constituents parts thereof, prepared pursuant to this part, without the prior written consent of the person who maintained or who furnished the report and the customer of the person who furnished the report, where the information supplied is identifiable as being derived from the records of the customer. As required by the Act, any published reports issued by the Treasury based upon information pursuant to this part will only contain data aggregated in such a way that neither the person supplying the information nor the investor can be identified.

§ 129.6   Penalties specified by law.

Reporters are advised that the Act provides the following penalties:
(a) Civil Penalties. Whoever fails to furnish any information required under the Act, whether required to be furnished in the form of a report or otherwise, or to comply with any other rule, regulation, order, or instruction promulgated under the Act, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $2,500 and not more than $25,000.
Civil Penalties.
Whoever fails to furnish any information required under the Act, whether required to be furnished in the form of a report or otherwise, or to comply with any other rule, regulation, order, or instruction promulgated under the Act, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $2,500 and not more than $25,000.
(b) Criminal Penalties. Whoever willfully violates any rule, regulation, order, or instruction promulgated under the Act, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $10,000 and, if an individual, may be imprisoned for not more than one year, or both, and any officer, director, employee, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation, upon conviction, may be punished by a like fine, imprisonment or both.
Criminal Penalties.
Whoever willfully violates any rule, regulation, order, or instruction promulgated under the Act, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $10,000 and, if an individual, may be imprisoned for not more than one year, or both, and any officer, director, employee, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation, upon conviction, may be punished by a like fine, imprisonment or both.

PARTS 130-131 [RESERVED]


PART 132—PROHIBITION ON FUNDING OF UNLAWFUL INTERNET GAMBLING

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 321 and 5364.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321 and 5364.
[Source:73 FR 69405, Nov. 18, 2008, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
73 FR 69405, Nov. 18, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

§ 132.1   Authority, purpose, collection of information, and incorporation by reference.

(a) Authority. This part is issued jointly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) and the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) under section 802 of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (Act) (enacted as Title VIII of the Security and Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006, Pub. L. No. 109-347, 120 Stat. 1884, and codified at 31 U.S.C. 5361-5367). The Act states that none of its provisions shall be construed as altering, limiting, or extending any Federal or State law or Tribal-State compact prohibiting, permitting, or regulating gambling within the United States. See 31 U.S.C. 5361(b). In addition, the Act states that its provisions are not intended to change which activities related to horseracing may or may not be allowed under Federal law, are not intended to change the existing relationship between the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (IHA) (15 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) and other Federal statutes in effect on October 13, 2006, the date of the Act's enactment, and are not intended to resolve any existing disagreements over how to interpret the relationship between the IHA and other Federal statutes. See 31 U.S.C. 5362(10)(D)(iii). This part is intended to be consistent with these provisions.
Authority.
This part is issued jointly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) and the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) under section 802 of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (Act) (enacted as Title VIII of the Security and Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006, Pub. L. No. 109-347, 120 Stat. 1884, and codified at 31 U.S.C. 5361-5367). The Act states that none of its provisions shall be construed as altering, limiting, or extending any Federal or State law or Tribal-State compact prohibiting, permitting, or regulating gambling within the United States.
See
31 U.S.C. 5361(b). In addition, the Act states that its provisions are not intended to change which activities related to horseracing may or may not be allowed under Federal law, are not intended to change the existing relationship between the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (IHA) (15 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
) and other Federal statutes in effect on October 13, 2006, the date of the Act's enactment, and are not intended to resolve any existing disagreements over how to interpret the relationship between the IHA and other Federal statutes.
See
31 U.S.C. 5362(10)(D)(iii). This part is intended to be consistent with these provisions.
(b) Purpose. The purpose of this part is to issue implementing regulations as required by the Act. The part sets out necessary definitions, designates payment systems subject to the requirements of this part, exempts certain participants in designated payment systems from certain requirements of this part, provides nonexclusive examples of policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and block, or otherwise prevent and prohibit, restricted transactions, and sets out the Federal entities that have exclusive regulatory enforcement authority with respect to the designated payments systems and non-exempt participants therein.
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to issue implementing regulations as required by the Act. The part sets out necessary definitions, designates payment systems subject to the requirements of this part, exempts certain participants in designated payment systems from certain requirements of this part, provides nonexclusive examples of policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and block, or otherwise prevent and prohibit, restricted transactions, and sets out the Federal entities that have exclusive regulatory enforcement authority with respect to the designated payments systems and non-exempt participants therein.
(c) Collection of information. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the collection of information requirements in this part for the Department of the Treasury and assigned OMB control number 1505-0204. The Board has approved the collection of information requirements in this part under the authority delegated to the Board by OMB, and assigned OMB control number 7100-0317.
Collection of information.
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the collection of information requirements in this part for the Department of the Treasury and assigned OMB control number 1505-0204. The Board has approved the collection of information requirements in this part under the authority delegated to the Board by OMB, and assigned OMB control number 7100-0317.
(d) Incorporation by reference—relevant definitions from ACH rules. (1) This part incorporates by reference the relevant definitions of ACH terms as published in the “2008 ACH Rules: A Complete Guide to Rules & Regulations Governing the ACH Network” (the “ACH Rules”). The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the “2008 ACH Rules” are available from the National Automated Clearing House Association, Suite 100, 13450 Sunrise Valley Drive, Herndon, Virginia 20171, http://nacha.org, (703) 561-1100. Copies also are available for public inspection at the Department of Treasury Library, Room 1428, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220, and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Before visiting the Treasury library, you must call (202) 622-0990 for an appointment. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html 20002.
Incorporation by reference—relevant definitions from ACH rules.
(1) This part incorporates by reference the relevant definitions of ACH terms as published in the “2008 ACH Rules: A Complete Guide to Rules & Regulations Governing the ACH Network” (the “ACH Rules”). The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the “2008 ACH Rules” are available from the National Automated Clearing House Association, Suite 100, 13450 Sunrise Valley Drive, Herndon, Virginia 20171,
http://nacha.org
, (703) 561-1100. Copies also are available for public inspection at the Department of Treasury Library, Room 1428, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220, and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Before visiting the Treasury library, you must call (202) 622-0990 for an appointment. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html 20002.
(2) Any amendment to definitions of the relevant ACH terms in the ACH Rules shall not apply to this part unless the Treasury and the Board jointly accept such amendment by publishing notice of acceptance of the amendment to this part in the Federal Register. An amendment to the definition of a relevant ACH term in the ACH Rules that is accepted by the Treasury and the Board shall apply to this part on the effective date of the rulemaking specified by the Treasury and the Board in the joint Federal Register notice expressly accepting such amendment.
Federal Register.
An amendment to the definition of a relevant ACH term in the ACH Rules that is accepted by the Treasury and the Board shall apply to this part on the effective date of the rulemaking specified by the Treasury and the Board in the joint
Federal Register
notice expressly accepting such amendment.

§ 132.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply solely for purposes of this part:
(a) Actual knowledge with respect to a transaction or commercial customer means when a particular fact with respect to that transaction or commercial customer is known by or brought to the attention of:
Actual knowledge
with respect to a transaction or commercial customer means when a particular fact with respect to that transaction or commercial customer is known by or brought to the attention of:
(1) An individual in the organization responsible for the organization's compliance function with respect to that transaction or commercial customer; or
(2) An officer of the organization.
(b) Automated clearing house system or ACH system means a funds transfer system, primarily governed by the ACH Rules, which provides for the clearing and settlement of batched electronic entries for participating financial institutions. When referring to ACH systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “originating depository financial institution,” “operator,” “originating gateway operator,” “receiving depository financial institution,” “receiving gateway operator,” and “third-party sender”) are defined as those terms are defined in the ACH Rules.
Automated clearing house system
or
ACH system
means a funds transfer system, primarily governed by the ACH Rules, which provides for the clearing and settlement of batched electronic entries for participating financial institutions. When referring to ACH systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “originating depository financial institution,” “operator,” “originating gateway operator,” “receiving depository financial institution,” “receiving gateway operator,” and “third-party sender”) are defined as those terms are defined in the ACH Rules.
(c) Bet or wager. (1) Means the staking or risking by any person of something of value upon the outcome of a contest of others, a sporting event, or a game subject to chance, upon an agreement or understanding that the person or another person will receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome;
Bet or wager.
(1) Means the staking or risking by any person of something of value upon the outcome of a contest of others, a sporting event, or a game subject to chance, upon an agreement or understanding that the person or another person will receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome;
(2) Includes the purchase of a chance or opportunity to win a lottery or other prize (which opportunity to win is predominantly subject to chance);
(3) Includes any scheme of a type described in 28 U.S.C. 3702;
(4) Includes any instructions or information pertaining to the establishment or movement of funds by the bettor or customer in, to, or from an account with the business of betting or wagering (which does not include the activities of a financial transaction provider, or any interactive computer service or telecommunications service); and
(5) Does not include—
(i) Any activity governed by the securities laws (as that term is defined in section 3(a)(47) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(47)) for the purchase or sale of securities (as that term is defined in section 3(a)(10) of that act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10));
(ii) Any transaction conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered entity or exempt board of trade under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(iii) Any over-the-counter derivative instrument;
(iv) Any other transaction that—
(A) Is excluded or exempt from regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.); or
et seq.
); or
(B) Is exempt from State gaming or bucket shop laws under section 12(e) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 16(e)) or section 28(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78bb(a));
(v) Any contract of indemnity or guarantee;
(vi) Any contract for insurance;
(vii) Any deposit or other transaction with an insured depository institution;
(viii) Participation in any game or contest in which participants do not stake or risk anything of value other than—
(A) Personal efforts of the participants in playing the game or contest or obtaining access to the Internet; or
(B) Points or credits that the sponsor of the game or contest provides to participants free of charge and that can be used or redeemed only for participation in games or contests offered by the sponsor; or
(ix) Participation in any fantasy or simulation sports game or educational game or contest in which (if the game or contest involves a team or teams) no fantasy or simulation sports team is based on the current membership of an actual team that is a member of an amateur or professional sports organization (as those terms are defined in 28 U.S.C. 3701) and that meets the following conditions:
(A) All prizes and awards offered to winning participants are established and made known to the participants in advance of the game or contest and their value is not determined by the number of participants or the amount of any fees paid by those participants.
(B) All winning outcomes reflect the relative knowledge and skill of the participants and are determined predominantly by accumulated statistical results of the performance of individuals (athletes in the case of sports events) in multiple real-world sporting or other events.
(C) No winning outcome is based—
(1) On the score, point-spread, or any performance or performances of any single real-world team or any combination of such teams, or
1
) On the score, point-spread, or any performance or performances of any single real-world team or any combination of such teams, or
(2) Solely on any single performance of an individual athlete in any single real-world sporting or other event.
2
) Solely on any single performance of an individual athlete in any single real-world sporting or other event.
(d) Block means to reject a particular transaction before or during processing, but it does not require freezing or otherwise prohibiting subsequent transfers or transactions regarding the proceeds or account.
Block
means to reject a particular transaction before or during processing, but it does not require freezing or otherwise prohibiting subsequent transfers or transactions regarding the proceeds or account.
(e) Card issuer means any person who issues a credit card, debit card, pre-paid card, or stored value card, or the agent of such person with respect to such card.
Card issuer
means any person who issues a credit card, debit card, pre-paid card, or stored value card, or the agent of such person with respect to such card.
(f) Card system means a system for authorizing, clearing and settling transactions in which credit cards, debit cards, pre-paid cards, or stored value cards (such cards being issued or authorized by the operator of the system), are used to purchase goods or services or to obtain a cash advance. The term includes systems both in which the merchant acquirer, card issuer, and system operator are separate entities and in which more than one of these roles are performed by the same entity.
Card system
means a system for authorizing, clearing and settling transactions in which credit cards, debit cards, pre-paid cards, or stored value cards (such cards being issued or authorized by the operator of the system), are used to purchase goods or services or to obtain a cash advance. The term includes systems both in which the merchant acquirer, card issuer, and system operator are separate entities and in which more than one of these roles are performed by the same entity.
(g) Check clearing house means an association of banks or other payors that regularly exchange checks for collection or return.
Check clearing house
means an association of banks or other payors that regularly exchange checks for collection or return.
(h) Check collection system means an interbank system for collecting, presenting, returning, and settling for checks or intrabank system for settling for checks deposited in and drawn on the same bank. When referring to check collection systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “paying bank,” “collecting bank,” “depositary bank,” “returning bank,” and “check”) are defined as those terms are defined in 12 CFR 229.2. For purposes of this part, “check” also includes an electronic representation of a check that a bank agrees to handle as a check.
Check collection system
means an interbank system for collecting, presenting, returning, and settling for checks or intrabank system for settling for checks deposited in and drawn on the same bank. When referring to check collection systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “paying bank,” “collecting bank,” “depositary bank,” “returning bank,” and “check”) are defined as those terms are defined in 12 CFR 229.2. For purposes of this part, “check” also includes an electronic representation of a check that a bank agrees to handle as a check.
(i) Commercial customer means a person that is not a consumer and that contracts with a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system to receive, or otherwise accesses, payment transaction services through that non-exempt participant.
Commercial customer
means a person that is not a consumer and that contracts with a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system to receive, or otherwise accesses, payment transaction services through that non-exempt participant.
(j) Consumer means a natural person.
Consumer
means a natural person.
(k) Designated payment system means a system listed in § 132.3.
Designated payment system
means a system listed in § 132.3.
(l) Electronic fund transfer has the same meaning given the term in section 903 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a), except that such term includes transfers that would otherwise be excluded under section 903(6)(E) of that act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(6)(E)), and includes any funds transfer covered by Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code, as in effect in any State.
Electronic fund transfer
has the same meaning given the term in section 903 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a), except that such term includes transfers that would otherwise be excluded under section 903(6)(E) of that act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(6)(E)), and includes any funds transfer covered by Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code, as in effect in any State.
(m) Financial institution means a State or national bank, a State or Federal savings and loan association, a mutual savings bank, a State or Federal credit union, or any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds an account belonging to a consumer. The term does not include a casino, sports book, or other business at or through which bets or wagers may be placed or received.
Financial institution
means a State or national bank, a State or Federal savings and loan association, a mutual savings bank, a State or Federal credit union, or any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds an account belonging to a consumer. The term does not include a casino, sports book, or other business at or through which bets or wagers may be placed or received.
(n) Financial transaction provider means a creditor, credit card issuer, financial institution, operator of a terminal at which an electronic fund transfer may be initiated, money transmitting business, or international, national, regional, or local payment network utilized to effect a credit transaction, electronic fund transfer, stored value product transaction, or money transmitting service, or a participant in such network, or other participant in a designated payment system.
Financial transaction provider
means a creditor, credit card issuer, financial institution, operator of a terminal at which an electronic fund transfer may be initiated, money transmitting business, or international, national, regional, or local payment network utilized to effect a credit transaction, electronic fund transfer, stored value product transaction, or money transmitting service, or a participant in such network, or other participant in a designated payment system.
(o) Foreign banking office means:
Foreign banking office
means:
(1) Any non-U.S. office of a financial institution; and
(2) Any non-U.S. office of a foreign bank as described in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7).
(p) Interactive computer service means any information service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer access by multiple users to a computer server, including specifically a service or system that provides access to the Internet and such systems operated or services offered by libraries or educational institutions.
Interactive computer service
means any information service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer access by multiple users to a computer server, including specifically a service or system that provides access to the Internet and such systems operated or services offered by libraries or educational institutions.
(q) Internet means the international computer network of interoperable packet switched data networks.
Internet
means the international computer network of interoperable packet switched data networks.
(r) Internet gambling business means the business of placing, receiving or otherwise knowingly transmitting a bet or wager by any means which involves the use, at least in part, of the Internet, but does not include the performance of the customary activities of a financial transaction provider, or any interactive computer service or telecommunications service.
Internet gambling business
means the business of placing, receiving or otherwise knowingly transmitting a bet or wager by any means which involves the use, at least in part, of the Internet, but does not include the performance of the customary activities of a financial transaction provider, or any interactive computer service or telecommunications service.
(s) Intrastate transaction means placing, receiving, or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager where—
Intrastate transaction
means placing, receiving, or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager where—
(1) The bet or wager is initiated and received or otherwise made exclusively within a single State;
(2) The bet or wager and the method by which the bet or wager is initiated and received or otherwise made is expressly authorized by and placed in accordance with the laws of such State, and the State law or regulations include—
(i) Age and location verification requirements reasonably designed to block access to minors and persons located out of such State; and
(ii) Appropriate data security standards to prevent unauthorized access by any person whose age and current location has not been verified in accordance with such State's law or regulations; and
(3) The bet or wager does not violate any provision of—
(i) The Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) 28 U.S.C. chapter 178 (professional and amateur sports protection);
(iii) The Gambling Devices Transportation Act (15 U.S.C. 1171 et seq.); or
et seq.
); or
(iv) The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.).
et seq.
).
(t) Intratribal transaction means placing, receiving or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager where—
Intratribal transaction
means placing, receiving or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager where—
(1) The bet or wager is initiated and received or otherwise made exclusively—
(i) Within the Indian lands of a single Indian tribe (as such terms are defined under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)); or
(ii) Between the Indian lands of two or more Indian tribes to the extent that intertribal gaming is authorized by the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(2) The bet or wager and the method by which the bet or wager is initiated and received or otherwise made is expressly authorized by and complies with the requirements of—
(i) The applicable tribal ordinance or resolution approved by the Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission; and
(ii) With respect to class III gaming, the applicable Tribal-State compact;
(3) The applicable tribal ordinance or resolution or Tribal-State compact includes—
(i) Age and location verification requirements reasonably designed to block access to minors and persons located out of the applicable Tribal lands; and
(ii) Appropriate data security standards to prevent unauthorized access by any person whose age and current location has not been verified in accordance with the applicable tribal ordinance or resolution or Tribal-State Compact; and
(4) The bet or wager does not violate any provision of—
(i) The Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) 28 U.S.C. chapter 178 (professional and amateur sports protection);
(iii) The Gambling Devices Transportation Act (15 U.S.C. 1171 et seq.); or
et seq.
); or
(iv) The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.).
et seq.
).
(u) Money transmitting business has the meaning given the term in 31 U.S.C. 5330(d)(1) (determined without regard to any regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury thereunder).
Money transmitting business
has the meaning given the term in 31 U.S.C. 5330(d)(1) (determined without regard to any regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury thereunder).
(v) Operator of a designated payment system means an entity that provides centralized clearing and delivery services between participants in the designated payment system and maintains the operational framework for the system. In the case of an automated clearinghouse system, the term “operator” has the same meaning as provided in the ACH Rules.
Operator
of a designated payment system means an entity that provides centralized clearing and delivery services between participants in the designated payment system and maintains the operational framework for the system. In the case of an automated clearinghouse system, the term “operator” has the same meaning as provided in the ACH Rules.
(w) Participant in a designated payment system means an operator of a designated payment system, a financial transaction provider that is a member of, or has contracted for financial transaction services with, or is otherwise participating in, a designated payment system, or a third-party processor. This term does not include a customer of the financial transaction provider, unless the customer is also a financial transaction provider otherwise participating in the designated payment system on its own behalf.
Participant in a designated payment system
means an operator of a designated payment system, a financial transaction provider that is a member of, or has contracted for financial transaction services with, or is otherwise participating in, a designated payment system, or a third-party processor. This term does not include a customer of the financial transaction provider, unless the customer is also a financial transaction provider otherwise participating in the designated payment system on its own behalf.
(x) Reasoned legal opinion means a written expression of professional judgment by a State-licensed attorney that addresses the facts of a particular client's business and the legality of the client's provision of its services to relevant customers in the relevant jurisdictions under applicable federal and State law, and, in the case of intratribal transactions, applicable tribal ordinances, tribal resolutions, and Tribal-State compacts. A written legal opinion will not be considered “reasoned” if it does nothing more than recite the facts and express a conclusion.
Reasoned legal opinion
means a written expression of professional judgment by a State-licensed attorney that addresses the facts of a particular client's business and the legality of the client's provision of its services to relevant customers in the relevant jurisdictions under applicable federal and State law, and, in the case of intratribal transactions, applicable tribal ordinances, tribal resolutions, and Tribal-State compacts. A written legal opinion will not be considered “reasoned” if it does nothing more than recite the facts and express a conclusion.
(y) Restricted transaction means any of the following transactions or transmittals involving any credit, funds, instrument, or proceeds that the Act prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering (which does not include the activities of a financial transaction provider, or any interactive computer service or telecommunications service) from knowingly accepting, in connection with the participation of another person in unlawful Internet gambling—
Restricted transaction
means any of the following transactions or transmittals involving any credit, funds, instrument, or proceeds that the Act prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering (which does not include the activities of a financial transaction provider, or any interactive computer service or telecommunications service) from knowingly accepting, in connection with the participation of another person in unlawful Internet gambling—
(1) Credit, or the proceeds of credit, extended to or on behalf of such other person (including credit extended through the use of a credit card);
(2) An electronic fund transfer, or funds transmitted by or through a money transmitting business, or the proceeds of an electronic fund transfer or money transmitting service, from or on behalf of such other person; or
(3) Any check, draft, or similar instrument that is drawn by or on behalf of such other person and is drawn on or payable at or through any financial institution.
(z) State means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any commonwealth, territory, or other possession of the United States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any commonwealth, territory, or other possession of the United States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
(aa) Third-party processor means a service provider that—
Third-party processor
means a service provider that—
(1) In the case of a debit transaction payment, such as an ACH debit entry or card system transaction, has a direct relationship with the commercial customer that is initiating the debit transfer transaction and acts as an intermediary between the commercial customer and the first depository institution to handle the transaction;
(2) In the case of a credit transaction payment, such as an ACH credit entry, has a direct relationship with the commercial customer that is to receive the proceeds of the credit transfer and acts as an intermediary between the commercial customer and the last depository institution to handle the transaction; and
(3) In the case of a cross-border ACH debit or check collection transaction, is the first service provider located within the United States to receive the ACH debit instructions or check for collection.
(bb) Unlawful Internet gambling means to place, receive, or otherwise knowingly transmit a bet or wager by any means which involves the use, at least in part, of the Internet where such bet or wager is unlawful under any applicable Federal or State law in the State or Tribal lands in which the bet or wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made. The term does not include placing, receiving, or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager that is excluded from the definition of this term by the Act as an intrastate transaction or an intra-tribal transaction, and does not include any activity that is allowed under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.; see § 132.1(a)). The intermediate routing of electronic data shall not determine the location or locations in which a bet or wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made.
Unlawful Internet gambling
means to place, receive, or otherwise knowingly transmit a bet or wager by any means which involves the use, at least in part, of the Internet where such bet or wager is unlawful under any applicable Federal or State law in the State or Tribal lands in which the bet or wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made. The term does not include placing, receiving, or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager that is excluded from the definition of this term by the Act as an intrastate transaction or an intra-tribal transaction, and does not include any activity that is allowed under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.;
see
§ 132.1(a)). The intermediate routing of electronic data shall not determine the location or locations in which a bet or wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made.
(cc) Wire transfer system means a system through which an unconditional order to a bank to pay a fixed or determinable amount of money to a beneficiary upon receipt, or on a day stated in the order, is transmitted by electronic or other means through the network, between banks, or on the books of a bank. When referring to wire transfer systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “bank,” “originator's bank,” “beneficiary's bank,” and “intermediary bank”) are defined as those terms are defined in 12 CFR part 210, appendix B.
Wire transfer system
means a system through which an unconditional order to a bank to pay a fixed or determinable amount of money to a beneficiary upon receipt, or on a day stated in the order, is transmitted by electronic or other means through the network, between banks, or on the books of a bank. When referring to wire transfer systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “bank,” “originator's bank,” “beneficiary's bank,” and “intermediary bank”) are defined as those terms are defined in 12 CFR part 210, appendix B.

§ 132.3   Designated payment systems.

The following payment systems could be used by participants in connection with, or to facilitate, a restricted transaction:
(a) Automated clearing house systems;
(b) Card systems;
(c) Check collection systems;
(d) Money transmitting businesses solely to the extent they
(1) Engage in the transmission of funds, which does not include check cashing, currency exchange, or the issuance or redemption of money orders, travelers' checks, and other similar instruments; and
(2) Permit customers to initiate transmission of funds transactions remotely from a location other than a physical office of the money transmitting business; and
(e) Wire transfer systems.

§ 132.4   Exemptions.

(a) Automated clearing house systems. The participants processing a particular transaction through an automated clearing house system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that transaction, except for—
Automated clearing house systems.
The participants processing a particular transaction through an automated clearing house system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that transaction, except for—
(1) The receiving depository financial institution and any third-party processor receiving the transaction on behalf of the receiver in an ACH credit transaction;
(2) The originating depository financial institution and any third-party processor initiating the transaction on behalf of the originator in an ACH debit transaction; and
(3) The receiving gateway operator and any third-party processor that receives instructions for an ACH debit transaction directly from a foreign sender (which could include a foreign banking office, a foreign third-party processor, or a foreign originating gateway operator).
(b) Check collection systems. The participants in a particular check collection through a check collection system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that check collection, except for the depositary bank.
Check collection systems.
The participants in a particular check collection through a check collection system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that check collection, except for the depositary bank.
(c) Money transmitting businesses. The participants in a money transmitting business are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, except for the operator.
Money transmitting businesses.
The participants in a money transmitting business are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, except for the operator.
(d) Wire transfer systems. The participants in a particular wire transfer through a wire transfer system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that transaction, except for the beneficiary's bank.
Wire transfer systems.
The participants in a particular wire transfer through a wire transfer system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that transaction, except for the beneficiary's bank.

§ 132.5   Policies and procedures required.

(a) All non-exempt participants in designated payment systems shall establish and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions.
(b) A non-exempt financial transaction provider participant in a designated payment system shall be considered to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if—
(1) It relies on and complies with the written policies and procedures of the designated payment system that are reasonably designed to—
(i) Identify and block restricted transactions; or
(ii) Otherwise prevent or prohibit the acceptance of the products or services of the designated payment system or participant in connection with restricted transactions; and
(2) Such policies and procedures of the designated payment system comply with the requirements of this part.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) in this section, a participant in a designated payment system may rely on a written statement or notice by the operator of that designated payment system to its participants that states that the operator has designed or structured the system's policies and procedures for identifying and blocking or otherwise preventing or prohibiting restricted transactions to comply with the requirements of this part as conclusive evidence that the system's policies and procedures comply with the requirements of this part, unless the participant is notified otherwise by its Federal functional regulator or, in the case of participants that are not directly supervised by a Federal functional regulator, the Federal Trade Commission.
(d) As provided in the Act, a person that identifies and blocks a transaction, prevents or prohibits the acceptance of its products or services in connection with a transaction, or otherwise refuses to honor a transaction, shall not be liable to any party for such action if—
(1) The transaction is a restricted transaction;
(2) Such person reasonably believes the transaction to be a restricted transaction; or
(3) The person is a participant in a designated payment system and blocks or otherwise prevents the transaction in reliance on the policies and procedures of the designated payment system in an effort to comply with this regulation.
(e) Nothing in this part requires or is intended to suggest that designated payment systems or participants therein must or should block or otherwise prevent or prohibit any transaction in connection with any activity that is excluded from the definition of “unlawful Internet gambling” in the Act as an intrastate transaction, an intratribal transaction, or a transaction in connection with any activity that is allowed under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.; see § 132.1(a)).
et seq.;
see § 132.1(a)).
(f) Nothing in this part modifies any requirement imposed on a participant by other applicable law or regulation to file a suspicious activity report to the appropriate authorities.
(g) The requirement of this part to establish and implement written policies and procedures applies only to the U.S. offices of participants in designated payment systems.

§ 132.6   Non-exclusive examples of policies and procedures.

(a) In general. The examples of policies and procedures to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions set out in this section are non-exclusive. In establishing and implementing written policies and procedures to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system is permitted to design and implement policies and procedures tailored to its business that may be different than the examples provided in this section. In addition, non-exempt participants may use different policies and procedures with respect to different business lines or different parts of the organization.
In general.
The examples of policies and procedures to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions set out in this section are non-exclusive. In establishing and implementing written policies and procedures to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system is permitted to design and implement policies and procedures tailored to its business that may be different than the examples provided in this section. In addition, non-exempt participants may use different policies and procedures with respect to different business lines or different parts of the organization.
(b) Due diligence. If a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system establishes and implements procedures for due diligence of its commercial customer accounts or commercial customer relationships in order to comply, in whole or in part, with the requirements of this regulation, those due diligence procedures will be deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if the procedures include the steps set out in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section and subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
Due diligence.
If a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system establishes and implements procedures for due diligence of its commercial customer accounts or commercial customer relationships in order to comply, in whole or in part, with the requirements of this regulation, those due diligence procedures will be deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if the procedures include the steps set out in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section and subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(1) At the establishment of the account or relationship, the participant conducts due diligence of a commercial customer and its activities commensurate with the participant's judgment of the risk of restricted transactions presented by the customer's business.
(2) Based on its due diligence, the participant makes a determination regarding the risk the commercial customer presents of engaging in an Internet gambling business and follows either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) The participant determines that the commercial customer presents a minimal risk of engaging in an Internet gambling business.
(ii) The participant cannot determine that the commercial customer presents a minimal risk of engaging in an Internet gambling business, in which case it obtains the documentation in either paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section—
(A) Certification from the commercial customer that it does not engage in an Internet gambling business; or
(B) If the commercial customer does engage in an Internet gambling business, each of the following—
(1) Evidence of legal authority to engage in the Internet gambling business, such as—
1
) Evidence of legal authority to engage in the Internet gambling business, such as—
(i) A copy of the commercial customer's license that expressly authorizes the customer to engage in the Internet gambling business issued by the appropriate State or Tribal authority or, if the commercial customer does not have such a license, a reasoned legal opinion that demonstrates that the commercial customer's Internet gambling business does not involve restricted transactions; and
i
) A copy of the commercial customer's license that expressly authorizes the customer to engage in the Internet gambling business issued by the appropriate State or Tribal authority or, if the commercial customer does not have such a license, a reasoned legal opinion that demonstrates that the commercial customer's Internet gambling business does not involve restricted transactions; and
(ii) A written commitment by the commercial customer to notify the participant of any changes in its legal authority to engage in its Internet gambling business.
ii
) A written commitment by the commercial customer to notify the participant of any changes in its legal authority to engage in its Internet gambling business.
(2) A third-party certification that the commercial customer's systems for engaging in the Internet gambling business are reasonably designed to ensure that the commercial customer's Internet gambling business will remain within the licensed or otherwise lawful limits, including with respect to age and location verification.
2
) A third-party certification that the commercial customer's systems for engaging in the Internet gambling business are reasonably designed to ensure that the commercial customer's Internet gambling business will remain within the licensed or otherwise lawful limits, including with respect to age and location verification.
(3) The participant notifies all of its commercial customers, through provisions in the account or commercial customer relationship agreement or otherwise, that restricted transactions are prohibited from being processed through the account or relationship.
(4) With respect to the determination in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, participants may deem the following commercial customers to present a minimal risk of engaging in an Internet gambling business—
(i) An entity that is directly supervised by a Federal functional regulator as set out in § 132.7(a); or
(ii) An agency, department, or division of the Federal government or a State government.
(c) Automated clearing house system examples. (1) The policies and procedures of the originating depository financial institution and any third party processor in an ACH debit transaction, and the receiving depository financial institution and any third party processor in an ACH credit transaction, are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
Automated clearing house system examples.
(1) The policies and procedures of the originating depository financial institution and any third party processor in an ACH debit transaction, and the receiving depository financial institution and any third party processor in an ACH credit transaction, are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
(i) Address methods to conduct due diligence in establishing a commercial customer account or relationship as set out in § 132.6(b);
(ii) Address methods to conduct due diligence as set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the participant has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer of the participant engages in an Internet gambling business; and
(iii) Include procedures to be followed with respect to a commercial customer if the originating depository financial institution or third-party processor has actual knowledge that its commercial customer has originated restricted transactions as ACH debit transactions or if the receiving depository financial institution or third-party processor has actual knowledge that its commercial customer has received restricted transactions as ACH credit transactions, such as procedures that address—
(A) The circumstances under which the commercial customer should not be allowed to originate ACH debit transactions or receive ACH credit transactions; and
(B) The circumstances under which the account should be closed.
(2) The policies and procedures of a receiving gateway operator and third-party processor that receives instructions to originate an ACH debit transaction directly from a foreign sender are deemed to be reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they include procedures to be followed with respect to a foreign sender if the receiving gateway operator or third-party processor has actual knowledge, obtained through notification by a government entity, such as law enforcement or a regulatory agency, that such instructions included instructions for restricted transactions. Such procedures may address sending notification to the foreign sender, such as in the form of the notice contained in appendix A to this part.
(d) Card system examples. The policies and procedures of a card system operator, a merchant acquirer, third-party processor, or a card issuer, are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, if the policies and procedures—
Card system examples.
The policies and procedures of a card system operator, a merchant acquirer, third-party processor, or a card issuer, are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, if the policies and procedures—
(1) Provide for either—
(i) Methods to conduct due diligence—
(A) In establishing a commercial customer account or relationship as set out in § 132.6(b); and
(B) As set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the participant has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer of the participant engages in an Internet gambling business; or
(ii) Implementation of a code system, such as transaction codes and merchant/business category codes, that are required to accompany the authorization request for a transaction, including—
(A) The operational functionality to enable the card system operator or the card issuer to reasonably identify and deny authorization for a transaction that the coding procedure indicates may be a restricted transaction; and
(B) Procedures for ongoing monitoring or testing by the card system operator to detect potential restricted transactions, including—
(1) Conducting testing to ascertain whether transaction authorization requests are coded correctly; and
1
) Conducting testing to ascertain whether transaction authorization requests are coded correctly; and
(2) Monitoring and analyzing payment patterns to detect suspicious payment volumes from a merchant customer; and
2
) Monitoring and analyzing payment patterns to detect suspicious payment volumes from a merchant customer; and
(2) For the card system operator, merchant acquirer, or third-party processor, include procedures to be followed when the participant has actual knowledge that a merchant has received restricted transactions through the card system, such as—
(i) The circumstances under which the access to the card system for the merchant, merchant acquirer, or third-party processor should be denied; and
(ii) The circumstances under which the merchant account should be closed.
(e) Check collection system examples. (1) The policies and procedures of a depositary bank are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, if they—
Check collection system examples.
(1) The policies and procedures of a depositary bank are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, if they—
(i) Address methods for the depositary bank to conduct due diligence in establishing a commercial customer account or relationship as set out in § 132.6(b);
(ii) Address methods for the depositary bank to conduct due diligence as set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the depositary bank has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer engages in an Internet gambling business; and
(iii) Include procedures to be followed if the depositary bank has actual knowledge that a commercial customer of the depositary bank has deposited checks that are restricted transactions, such as procedures that address—
(A) The circumstances under which check collection services for the customer should be denied; and
(B) The circumstances under which the account should be closed.
(2) The policies and procedures of a depositary bank that receives checks for collection from a foreign banking office are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they include procedures to be followed by the depositary bank when it has actual knowledge, obtained through notification by a government entity, such as law enforcement or a regulatory agency, that a foreign banking office has sent checks to the depositary bank that are restricted transactions. Such procedures may address sending notification to the foreign banking office, such as in the form of the notice contained in the appendix to this part.
(f) Money transmitting business examples. The policies and procedures of an operator of a money transmitting business are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
Money transmitting business examples.
The policies and procedures of an operator of a money transmitting business are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
(1) Address methods for the operator to conduct due diligence in establishing a commercial customer relationship as set out in § 132.6(b);
(2) Address methods for the operator to conduct due diligence as set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the operator has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer engages in an Internet gambling business;
(3) Include procedures regarding ongoing monitoring or testing by the operator to detect potential restricted transactions, such as monitoring and analyzing payment patterns to detect suspicious payment volumes to any recipient; and
(4) Include procedures when the operator has actual knowledge that a commercial customer of the operator has received restricted transactions through the money transmitting business, that address—
(i) The circumstances under which money transmitting services should be denied to that commercial customer; and
(ii) The circumstances under which the commercial customer account should be closed.
(g) Wire transfer system examples. The policies and procedures of the beneficiary's bank in a wire transfer are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
Wire transfer system examples.
The policies and procedures of the beneficiary's bank in a wire transfer are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
(1) Address methods for the beneficiary's bank to conduct due diligence in establishing a commercial customer account as set out in § 132.6(b);
(2) Address methods for the beneficiary's bank to conduct due diligence as set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the beneficiary's bank has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer of the bank engages in an Internet gambling business;
(3) Include procedures to be followed if the beneficiary's bank obtains actual knowledge that a commercial customer of the bank has received restricted transactions through the wire transfer system, such as procedures that address
(i) The circumstances under which the beneficiary bank should deny wire transfer services to the commercial customer; and
(ii) The circumstances under which the commercial customer account should be closed.

§ 132.7   Regulatory enforcement.

The requirements under this part are subject to the exclusive regulatory enforcement of—
(a) The Federal functional regulators, with respect to the designated payment systems and participants therein that are subject to the respective jurisdiction of such regulators under section 505(a) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6805(a)) and section 5g of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-2); and
(b) The Federal Trade Commission, with respect to designated payment systems and participants therein not otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of any Federal functional regulators (including the Commission) as described in paragraph (a) of this section.

Appendix A to Part 132—Model Notice

[Date]
[Name of foreign sender or foreign banking office]
[Address]
Re:
U.S. Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act Notice
Dear [Name of foreign counterparty]:
On [date], U.S. government officials informed us that your institution processed payments through our facilities for Internet gambling transactions restricted by U.S. law on [dates, recipients, and other relevant information if available].
We provide this notice to comply with U.S. Government regulations implementing the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (Act), a U.S. federal law. Our policies and procedures established in accordance with those regulations provide that we will notify a foreign counterparty if we learn that the counterparty has processed payments through our facilities for Internet gambling transactions restricted by the Act. This notice ensures that you are aware that we have received information that your institution has processed payments for Internet gambling restricted by the Act.
The Act is codified in subchapter IV, chapter 53, title 31 of the U.S. Code (31 U.S.C. 5361 et seq.). Implementing regulations that duplicate one another can be found at part 233 of title 12 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (12 CFR part 233) and part 132 of title 31 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (31 CFR part 132).
et seq.
). Implementing regulations that duplicate one another can be found at part 233 of title 12 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (12 CFR part 233) and part 132 of title 31 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (31 CFR part 132).

PARTS 133-147 [RESERVED]


PART 148—QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS RECORDKEEPING RELATED TO THE FDIC ORDERLY LIQUIDATION AUTHORITY

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 321(b) and 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(H).]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321(b) and 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(H).
[Source:81 FR 75658, Oct. 31, 2016, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
81 FR 75658, Oct. 31, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

§ 148.1   Scope, purpose, effective date, and compliance dates.

(a) Scope. This part applies to each financial company that is a records entity and, with respect to § 148.3(a), a top-tier financial company of a corporate group as defined in § 148.2.
Scope.
This part applies to each financial company that is a records entity and, with respect to § 148.3(a), a top-tier financial company of a corporate group as defined in § 148.2.
(b) Purpose. This part establishes recordkeeping requirements with respect to QFCs of records entities in order to assist the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) as receiver for a covered financial company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(8)) in being able to exercise its rights and fulfill its obligations under 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8), (9), or (10).
Purpose.
This part establishes recordkeeping requirements with respect to QFCs of records entities in order to assist the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) as receiver for a covered financial company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(8)) in being able to exercise its rights and fulfill its obligations under 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8), (9), or (10).
(c) Effective Date. This part shall become effective December 30, 2016.
Effective Date.
This part shall become effective December 30, 2016.
(d) Compliance—(1) Initial compliance dates. (i) A records entity subject to this part on the effective date must comply with § 148.3(a)(2) on the date that is 90 days after the effective date and with all other applicable requirements of this part on:
Compliance
—(1)
Initial compliance dates.
(i) A records entity subject to this part on the effective date must comply with § 148.3(a)(2) on the date that is 90 days after the effective date and with all other applicable requirements of this part on:
(A) March 31, 2019 for a records entity that:
(1) Has total assets equal to or greater than $1 trillion; or
1
) Has total assets equal to or greater than $1 trillion; or
(2) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A)(1) of this section;
2
) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A)(1) of this section;
(B) June 30, 2019 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance date set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section and:
(1) Has total assets equal to or greater than $500 billion; or
1
) Has total assets equal to or greater than $500 billion; or
(2) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(1) of this section; and
2
) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(1) of this section; and
(C) June 30, 2020 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance dates set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section and:
(1) Has total assets equal to or greater than $250 billion; or
1
) Has total assets equal to or greater than $250 billion; or
(2) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C)(1) of this section; and
2
) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C)(1) of this section; and
(D) June 30, 2021 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance dates set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.
(ii) A financial company that becomes a records entity after the effective date must comply with § 148.3(a)(2) within 90 days of becoming a records entity and with all other applicable requirements of this part within 540 days of becoming a records entity or within the remainder of the applicable period provided under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, whichever period is longer.
(2) Subsequent compliance dates. If a financial company that at one time met the definition of records entity later ceases to meet the definition of records entity and thereafter, on any subsequent date, again meets the definition of a records entity, such financial company must comply with all applicable requirements of this part within 365 days after such subsequent date, or within the remainder of the applicable period provided under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, whichever period is longer.
Subsequent compliance dates.
If a financial company that at one time met the definition of records entity later ceases to meet the definition of records entity and thereafter, on any subsequent date, again meets the definition of a records entity, such financial company must comply with all applicable requirements of this part within 365 days after such subsequent date, or within the remainder of the applicable period provided under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, whichever period is longer.
(3) Extensions of time to comply. The Secretary, in consultation with the FDIC, may grant one or more extensions of time for compliance with this part. A records entity may request an extension of time by submitting a written request to the Department of the Treasury and the FDIC at least 30 days prior to the deadline for its compliance provided under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The written request for an extension must contain:
Extensions of time to comply.
The Secretary, in consultation with the FDIC, may grant one or more extensions of time for compliance with this part. A records entity may request an extension of time by submitting a written request to the Department of the Treasury and the FDIC at least 30 days prior to the deadline for its compliance provided under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The written request for an extension must contain:
(i) A statement of the reasons why the records entity cannot comply by the deadline; and
(ii) A plan for achieving compliance during the requested extension period.
(4) Compliance by top-tier financial company. A top-tier financial company must comply with § 148.3(a)(1)(ii) on the same date as the date on which the records entity members of the corporate group of which it is the top-tier financial company are required to comply with this part.
Compliance by top-tier financial company.
A top-tier financial company must comply with § 148.3(a)(1)(ii) on the same date as the date on which the records entity members of the corporate group of which it is the top-tier financial company are required to comply with this part.
[[81 FR 75658, Oct. 31, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 17621, Apr. 23, 2018]]

§ 148.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:
(a) Affiliate means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity.
Affiliate
means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity.
(b) Control. An entity “controls” another entity if:
Control.
An entity “controls” another entity if:
(1) The entity directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other entity;
(2) The entity controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other entity; or
(3) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing in accordance with 12 CFR 225.31, that the entity directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other entity.
(c) Corporate group means an entity and all affiliates of that entity.
Corporate group
means an entity and all affiliates of that entity.
(d) Counterparty means any natural person or entity (or separate foreign branch or division of any entity) that is a party to a QFC with a records entity.
Counterparty
means any natural person or entity (or separate foreign branch or division of any entity) that is a party to a QFC with a records entity.
(e) Derivative liabilities means the fair value of derivative instruments in a negative position as of the end of the most recent fiscal year end, as recognized and measured in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards. Such value shall be adjusted for the effects of master netting agreements and cash collateral held with the same counterparty on a net basis to the extent such adjustments are reflected on the audited consolidated statement of financial condition of the applicable financial company filed with its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies or, for financial companies not required to file such statements, on the consolidated balance sheet of the financial company prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
Derivative liabilities
means the fair value of derivative instruments in a negative position as of the end of the most recent fiscal year end, as recognized and measured in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards. Such value shall be adjusted for the effects of master netting agreements and cash collateral held with the same counterparty on a net basis to the extent such adjustments are reflected on the audited consolidated statement of financial condition of the applicable financial company filed with its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies or, for financial companies not required to file such statements, on the consolidated balance sheet of the financial company prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
(f) Excluded entity means:
Excluded entity
means:
(1) An insured depository institution as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2);
(2) A subsidiary of an insured depository institution that is not:
(i) A functionally regulated subsidiary as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1844(c)(5);
(ii) A security-based swap dealer as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71); or
(iii) A major security-based swap participant as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(67); or
(3) An insurance company.
(g) Financial company has the meaning set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(11).
Financial company
has the meaning set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(11).
(h) Insurance company means:
Insurance company
means:
(1) An insurance company as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(13); and
(2) A mutual insurance holding company that meets the conditions set forth in 12 CFR 380.11 for being treated as an insurance company for the purpose of section 203(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5383(e).
(i) Legal Entity Identifier or LEI for an entity shall mean the global legal entity identifier maintained for such entity by a utility accredited by the Global LEI Foundation or by a utility endorsed by the Regulatory Oversight Committee. As used in this definition:
Legal Entity Identifier
or
LEI
for an entity shall mean the global legal entity identifier maintained for such entity by a utility accredited by the Global LEI Foundation or by a utility endorsed by the Regulatory Oversight Committee. As used in this definition:
(1) Regulatory Oversight Committee means the Regulatory Oversight Committee (of the Global LEI System), whose charter was set forth by the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty and the Financial Stability Board, or any successor thereof; and
(2) Global LEI Foundation means the not-for-profit organization organized under Swiss law by the Financial Stability Board in 2014, or any successor thereof.
(j) Parent entity with respect to an entity is an entity that controls that entity.
Parent entity
with respect to an entity is an entity that controls that entity.
(k) Position means an individual transaction under or evidenced by a QFC and includes the rights and obligations of a party to an individual transaction under or evidenced by a QFC.
Position
means an individual transaction under or evidenced by a QFC and includes the rights and obligations of a party to an individual transaction under or evidenced by a QFC.
(l) Primary financial regulatory agency means:
Primary financial regulatory agency
means:
(1) With respect to any financial company, the primary financial regulatory agency as specified for such financial company in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (E) of 12 U.S.C. 5301(12); and
(2) With respect to a financial market utility that is subject to a designation pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5463 for which there is no primary financial regulatory agency under § 148.2(l)(1), the Supervisory Agency for that financial market utility as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5462(8).
(m) Qualified financial contract or QFC means any qualified financial contract defined in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D), including without limitation, any “swap” defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)) and in any rules or regulations issued by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to such section; any “security-based swap” defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)) and in any rules or regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to such section; and any securities contract, commodity contract, forward contract, repurchase agreement, swap agreement, and any similar agreement that the FDIC determines by regulation, resolution, or order to be a qualified financial contract as provided in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D).
Qualified financial contract
or
QFC
means any qualified financial contract defined in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D), including without limitation, any “swap” defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)) and in any rules or regulations issued by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to such section; any “security-based swap” defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)) and in any rules or regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to such section; and any securities contract, commodity contract, forward contract, repurchase agreement, swap agreement, and any similar agreement that the FDIC determines by regulation, resolution, or order to be a qualified financial contract as provided in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D).
(n) Records entity—
Records entity
—
(1) Records entity means any financial company that:
(i) Is not an excluded entity as defined in § 148.2(f);
(ii) Is a party to an open QFC; and
(iii) (A) Is subject to a determination that the company shall be subject to Federal Reserve supervision and enhanced prudential standards pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5323;
(B) Is subject to a designation as, or as likely to become, systemically important pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5463;
(C) Is identified as a global systemically important bank holding company pursuant to 12 CFR part 217;
(D)(1) Has total assets on a consolidated basis equal to or greater than $50 billion; and
1
) Has total assets on a consolidated basis equal to or greater than $50 billion; and
(2) On a consolidated basis has:
2
) On a consolidated basis has:
(i) Total gross notional derivatives outstanding equal to or greater than $250 billion; or
i
) Total gross notional derivatives outstanding equal to or greater than $250 billion; or
(ii) Derivative liabilities equal to or greater than $3.5 billion; or
ii
) Derivative liabilities equal to or greater than $3.5 billion; or
(E)(1) Is a member of a corporate group in which at least one financial company meets the criteria under one or more of paragraphs (n)(1)(iii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section; and
1
) Is a member of a corporate group in which at least one financial company meets the criteria under one or more of paragraphs (n)(1)(iii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section; and
(2)(i) Consolidates, is consolidated by, or is consolidated with such financial company on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards; or
2
)(
i
) Consolidates, is consolidated by, or is consolidated with such financial company on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards; or
(ii) For financial companies not subject to such principles or standards, would consolidate, be consolidated by, or be consolidated with such financial company if such principles or standards applied.
ii
) For financial companies not subject to such principles or standards, would consolidate, be consolidated by, or be consolidated with such financial company if such principles or standards applied.
(2) A financial company that qualifies as a records entity pursuant to paragraph (n)(1)(iii)(D) will remain a records entity until one year after it ceases to meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (n)(1)(iii)(D) of this section.
(o) Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee.
(p) Subsidiary means any company that is controlled by another company.
Subsidiary
means any company that is controlled by another company.
(q) Top-tier financial company means a financial company that is a member of a corporate group consisting of multiple records entities and that is not itself controlled by another financial company.
Top-tier financial company
means a financial company that is a member of a corporate group consisting of multiple records entities and that is not itself controlled by another financial company.
(r) Total assets means the total assets reported on the audited consolidated statement of financial condition of the applicable financial company for the most recent year end filed with its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies or, for financial companies not required to file such statements, the total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the financial company for the most recent fiscal year end as prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
Total assets
means the total assets reported on the audited consolidated statement of financial condition of the applicable financial company for the most recent year end filed with its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies or, for financial companies not required to file such statements, the total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the financial company for the most recent fiscal year end as prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
(s) Total gross notional derivatives outstanding means the gross notional value of all derivative instruments that are outstanding as of the most recent fiscal year end, as recognized and measured in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
Total gross notional derivatives outstanding
means the gross notional value of all derivative instruments that are outstanding as of the most recent fiscal year end, as recognized and measured in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.

§ 148.3   Form, availability and maintenance of records.

(a) Form and availability—(1) Electronic records. (i) Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a records entity is required to maintain the records described in § 148.4 in electronic form and, as applicable, in the format set forth in the tables in the appendix to this part.
Form and availability
—(1)
Electronic records.
(i) Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a records entity is required to maintain the records described in § 148.4 in electronic form and, as applicable, in the format set forth in the tables in the appendix to this part.
(ii) A top-tier financial company must be capable of generating a single, compiled set of the records required to be maintained by § 148.4(a)-(h), in a format that allows for aggregation and disaggregation of such data by records entity and counterparty, for all records entities in its corporate group that are consolidated by or consolidated with such top-tier financial company on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards or, for financial companies not subject to such principles or standards, that would be consolidated by or consolidated with such financial company if such principles or standards applied.
(2) Point of contact. Each records entity and top-tier financial company must provide a point of contact who is responsible for recordkeeping under this part by written notice to its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies and the FDIC and must provide written notice to its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies and the FDIC within 30 days of any change in its point of contact.
Point of contact.
Each records entity and top-tier financial company must provide a point of contact who is responsible for recordkeeping under this part by written notice to its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies and the FDIC and must provide written notice to its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies and the FDIC within 30 days of any change in its point of contact.
(3) Access to records. Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a records entity and a top-tier financial company that are regulated by a primary financial regulatory agency shall be capable of providing electronically to such primary financial regulatory agency and the FDIC, within 24 hours of request by the primary financial regulatory agency:
Access to records.
Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a records entity and a top-tier financial company that are regulated by a primary financial regulatory agency shall be capable of providing electronically to such primary financial regulatory agency and the FDIC, within 24 hours of request by the primary financial regulatory agency:
(i) In the case of a records entity, the records specified in § 148.4, and
(ii) In the case of a top-tier financial company, the set of records referenced in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(b) Maintenance and updating—(1) Daily updating. Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, the records maintained under § 148.4 shall be based on values and information that are no less current than previous end-of-day values and information.
Maintenance and updating
—(1)
Daily updating.
Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, the records maintained under § 148.4 shall be based on values and information that are no less current than previous end-of-day values and information.
(2) Records maintenance. The records required under § 148.4 and the capability of generating the set of records required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may be maintained on behalf of the records entity or top-tier financial company, as applicable, by any affiliate of such records entity or top-tier financial company, as applicable, or any third-party service provider; provided that such records entity shall itself maintain records under this part in the event that such affiliate or service provider shall fail to maintain such records and such top-tier financial company shall itself maintain the capability of generating the set of records required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section in the event that such affiliate or service provider shall fail to maintain the capability of doing so.
Records maintenance.
The records required under § 148.4 and the capability of generating the set of records required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may be maintained on behalf of the records entity or top-tier financial company, as applicable, by any affiliate of such records entity or top-tier financial company, as applicable, or any third-party service provider; provided that such records entity shall itself maintain records under this part in the event that such affiliate or service provider shall fail to maintain such records and such top-tier financial company shall itself maintain the capability of generating the set of records required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section in the event that such affiliate or service provider shall fail to maintain the capability of doing so.
(3) Record retention. A records entity shall retain records maintained under § 148.4 based on end-of-day values and information for the five preceding business days.
Record retention.
A records entity shall retain records maintained under § 148.4 based on end-of-day values and information for the five preceding business days.
(c) Exemptions—(1) De minimis exemption. A records entity that is a party to 50 or fewer open QFC positions is not required to maintain the records described in § 148.4, other than the records described in § 148.4(i).
Exemptions
—(1)
De minimis exemption.
A records entity that is a party to 50 or fewer open QFC positions is not required to maintain the records described in § 148.4, other than the records described in § 148.4(i).
(2) Clearing organizations. A records entity that is a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) or a clearing agency registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) is not required to maintain the records described in § 148.4 if it is:
Clearing organizations.
A records entity that is a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) or a clearing agency registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) is not required to maintain the records described in § 148.4 if it is:
(i) In compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission, as applicable, including its maintenance of records pertaining to all QFCs cleared by such records entity; and
(ii) Capable of and not restricted from, whether by law, regulation, or agreement, transmitting electronically to the FDIC the records maintained under such recordkeeping requirements within 24 hours of request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission, as applicable.
(3) Requests for exemptions. One or more records entities may request an exemption from one or more of the requirements of this part by writing to the Department of the Treasury, the FDIC, and its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies, if any. The written request for an exemption must:
Requests for exemptions.
One or more records entities may request an exemption from one or more of the requirements of this part by writing to the Department of the Treasury, the FDIC, and its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies, if any. The written request for an exemption must:
(i) Identify the records entity or records entities or the types of records entities to which the exemption should apply;
(ii) Specify the requirement(s) under this part from which the identified records entities should be exempt;
(iii) Provide details as to the size, risk, complexity, leverage, frequency and dollar amount of qualified financial contracts, and interconnectedness to the financial system of each records entity identified in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, to the extent appropriate, and any other relevant factors; and
(iv) Specify the reason(s) why granting the exemption will not impair or impede the FDIC's ability to exercise its rights or fulfill its statutory obligations under 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8), (9), and (10).
(4) Granting exemptions. (i) Upon receipt of a written recommendation from the FDIC, prepared in consultation with the primary financial regulatory agency or agencies for the applicable records entity or entities, that takes into consideration each of the factors referenced in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(H)(iv) and any other factors the FDIC considers appropriate, the Secretary may grant, in whole or in part, a conditional or unconditional exemption from compliance with one or more of the requirements of this part by issuing an exemption to one or more records entities.
Granting exemptions.
(i) Upon receipt of a written recommendation from the FDIC, prepared in consultation with the primary financial regulatory agency or agencies for the applicable records entity or entities, that takes into consideration each of the factors referenced in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(H)(iv) and any other factors the FDIC considers appropriate, the Secretary may grant, in whole or in part, a conditional or unconditional exemption from compliance with one or more of the requirements of this part by issuing an exemption to one or more records entities.
(ii) In determining whether to grant an exemption to one or more records entities, including whether to grant a conditional or unconditional exemption, the Secretary will consider any factors deemed appropriate by the Secretary, including whether application of one or more requirements of this part is not necessary to achieve the purpose of this part as described in § 148.1(b).
(iii) If the FDIC does not submit, within 90 days of the date on which the FDIC and the Department of the Treasury received the exemption request, a written recommendation to the Secretary as to whether to grant or deny an exemption request, the Secretary will nevertheless determine whether to grant or deny the exemption request.

§ 148.4   Content of records.

Subject to § 148.3(c), a records entity must maintain the following records:
(a) The position level data listed in Table A-1 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.
(b) The counterparty netting set data listed in Table A-2 in appendix A to this part for each netting set with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.
(c) The legal agreements information listed in Table A-3 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.
(d) The collateral detail data listed in Table A-4 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.
(e) The corporate organization master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for the records entity and each of its affiliates.
(f) The counterparty master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for each non-affiliated counterparty with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.
(g) The booking location master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for each booking location used with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.
(h) The safekeeping agent master data lookup table in the appendix to this part for each safekeeping agent used with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.
(i) All documents that govern QFC transactions between the records entity and each counterparty, including, without limitation, master agreements and annexes, schedules, netting agreements, supplements, or other modifications with respect to the agreements, confirmations for each open QFC position of the records entity that has been confirmed and all trade acknowledgments for each open QFC position that has not been confirmed, all credit support documents including, but not limited to, credit support annexes, guarantees, keep-well agreements, or net worth maintenance agreements that are relevant to one or more QFCs, and all assignment or novation documents, if applicable, including documents that confirm that all required consents, approvals, or other conditions precedent for such assignment or novation have been obtained or satisfied.
(j) A list of vendors directly supporting the QFC-related activities of the records entity and the vendors' contact information.

Appendix A to Part 148—File Structure for Qualified Financial Contract Records

Table A-1—Position-Level Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
A1.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Provide data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD
A1.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity. Information needed to review position-level data by records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A1.3
Position identifier
20058953
Provide a position identifier. Should be used consistently across all record entities within the corporate group. Use the unique transaction identifier if available. Information needed to readily track and distinguish positions
Varchar(100).
A1.4
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide a counterparty identifier. Use LEI if counterparty has one. Should be used consistently by all record entities within the corporate group. Information needed to identify counterparty by reference to Counterparty Master Table
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A1.5
Internal booking location identifier
New York, New York
Provide office where the position is booked. Information needed to determine system on which the trade is booked and settled
Varchar(50)
Combination A1.2 + A1.5 + A1.6 should have a corresponding unique combination BL.2 + BL.3 + BL.4 entry in Booking Location Master Table.
A1.6
Unique booking unit or desk identifier
xxxxxx
Provide an identifier for unit or desk at which the position is booked. Information needed to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50)
Combination A1.2 + A1.5 + A1.6 should have a corresponding unique combination BL.2 + BL.3 + BL.4 entry in Booking Location Master Table.
A1.7
Type of QFC
Credit, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate (including cross-currency), other commodity, securities repurchase agreement, securities lending, loan repurchase agreement, guarantee or other third party credit enhancement of a QFC
Provide type of QFC. Use unique product identifier if available. Information needed to determine the nature of the QFC
Varchar (100).
A1.7.1
Type of QFC covered by guarantee or other third party credit enhancement
Credit, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate (including cross-currency), other commodity, securities repurchase agreement, securities lending, or loan repurchase agreement
If QFC type is guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide type of QFC of the QFC that is covered by such guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use unique product identifier if available. If multiple asset classes are covered by the guarantee or credit enhancement, enter the asset classes separated by comma. If all the QFCs of the underlying QFC obligor identifier are covered by the guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, enter “All”
Varchar(500)
Only required if QFC type (A1.7) is a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement.
A1.7.2
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
If QFC type is guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for the QFC obligor whose obligation is covered by the guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if underlying QFC obligor has one. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a QFC obligor that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Only required if QFC asset type (A1.7) is a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Validated against CO.2 if affiliate or CP.2 if non-affiliate.
A1.8
Agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for the primary governing documentation,
e.g.,
the master agreement or guarantee agreement, as applicable
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A1.9
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for netting agreement. If this agreement is the same as provided in A1.8, use same identifier. Information needed to identify unique netting sets
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A1.10
Netting agreement counterparty identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide a netting agreement counterparty identifier. Use same identifier as provided in A1.4 if counterparty and netting agreement counterparty are the same. Use LEI if netting agreement counterparty has one. Information needed to identify unique netting sets
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A1.11
Trade date
2014-12-20
Provide trade or other commitment date for the QFC. Information needed to determine when the entity's rights and obligations regarding the position originated
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.12
Termination date
2014-03-31
Provide date the QFC terminates or is expected to terminate, expire, mature, or when final performance is required. Information needed to determine when the entity's rights and obligations regarding the position are expected to end
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.13
Next call, put, or cancellation date
2015-01-25
Provide next call, put, or cancellation date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.14
Next payment date
2015-01-25
Provide next payment date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.15
Local Currency Of Position
USD
Provide currency in which QFC is denominated. Use ISO currency code
Char(3).
A1.16
Current market value of the position in local currency
995000
Provide current market value of the position in local currency. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the current mark-to-market expected value of the exposure. Information needed to determine the current size of the obligation or benefit associated with the QFC
Num (25,5).
A1.17
Current market value of the position in U.S. dollars
995000
In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the current mark-to-market expected value of the exposure. Information needed to determine the current size of the obligation/benefit associated with the QFC
Num (25,5).
A1.18
Asset Classification
1
Provide fair value asset classification under GAAP, IFRS, or other accounting principles or standards used by records entity. Provide “1” for Level 1, “2” for Level 2, or “3” for Level 3. Information needed to assess fair value of the position
Char(1).
A1.19
Notional or principal amount of the position in local currency
1000000
Provide the notional or principal amount, as applicable, in local currency. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide the maximum possible exposure. Information needed to help evaluate the position
Num (25,5).
A1.20
Notional or principal amount of the position In U.S. dollars
1000000
Provide the notional or principal amount, as applicable, in U.S. dollars. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the maximum possible exposure. Information needed to help evaluate the position
Num (25,5).
A1.21
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Indicate whether QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement. Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.
A1.21.1
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for provider. Use LEI if available. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a provider that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21 is “Y”. Validated against CP.2.
A1.21.2
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
4444444
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for the agreement
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21 is “Y.” Validated against A3.3.
A1.21.3
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Indicate whether QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement. Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.
A1.21.4
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for provider. Use LEI if available. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a provider that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21.3 is “Y”. Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A1.21.5
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
4444444
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for agreement
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21.3 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A1.22
Related position of records entity
3333333
Use this field to link any related positions of the records entity. All positions that are related to one another should have same designation in this field
Varchar(100).
A1.23
Reference number for any related loan
9999999
Provide a unique reference number for any loan held by the records entity or a member of its corporate group related to the position (with multiple entries delimited by commas)
Varchar(500).
A1.24
Identifier of the lender of the related loan
999999999
For any loan recorded in A1.23, provide identifier for records entity or member of its corporate group that holds any related loan. Use LEI if entity has one
Varchar(500).
Table A-2—Counterparty Netting Set Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
A2.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A2.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide the LEI for the records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A2.3
Netting agreement counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide an identifier for the netting agreement counterparty. Use LEI if counterparty has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A2.4
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for the netting agreement
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A2.4.1
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
Provide identifier for underlying QFC obligor if netting agreement is associated with a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if available
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A2.5
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Indicate whether the positions subject to the netting set agreement are covered by a third-party credit enhancement agreement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.“
A2.5.1
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity third-party credit enhancement provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5 is “Y”. Validated against CP.2.
A2.5.2
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
4444444
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A2.5.3
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.
A2.5.4
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity third-party credit enhancement provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5.3 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master Table. Validated against CP.2.
A2.5.5
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
4444444
Information used to determine guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5.3 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A2.6
Aggregate current market value in U.S. dollars of all positions under this netting agreement
−1000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all positions in A1 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.7
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all positive positions, as aggregated under this netting agreement
3000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all positive positions in A1 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.8
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all negative positions, as aggregated under this netting agreement
−4000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all negative positions in A1 for the given Netting Agreement Identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.9
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by records entity, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by records entity for the given netting agreement Identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A2.10
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by counterparty, as aggregated under this netting agreement
50000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by counterparty
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by counterparty for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A2.11
Current market value in U.S. dollar of all collateral posted by records entity that is subject to re-hypothecation, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5).
A2.12
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by counterparty that is subject to re-hypothecation, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5).
A2.13
Records entity collateral—net
950000
Provide records entity's collateral excess or deficiency with respect to all of its positions, as determined under each applicable agreement, including thresholds and haircuts where applicable
Num (25,5)
Should be less than or equal to A2.9.
A2.14
Counterparty collateral—net
950000
Provide counterparty's collateral excess or deficiency with respect to all of its positions, as determined under each applicable agreement, including thresholds and haircuts where applicable
Num (25,5)
Should be less than or equal to A2.10.
A2.15
Next margin payment date
2015-11-05
Provide next margin payment date for position
YYYY-MM-DD.
A2.16
Next margin payment amount in U.S. dollars
150000
Use positive value if records entity is due a payment and use negative value if records entity has to make the payment
Num (25,5).
A2.17
Safekeeping agent identifier for records entity
888888888
Provide an identifier for the records entity's safekeeping agent, if any. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against SA.2.
A2.18
Safekeeping agent identifier for counterparty
888888888
Provide an identifier for the counterparty's safekeeping agent, if any. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against SA.2.
Table A-3—Legal Agreements
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
A3.1
As Of Date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A3.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A3.3
Agreement identifier
xxxxxx
Provide identifier for each master agreement, governing document, netting agreement or third-party credit enhancement agreement
Varchar(50).
A3.4
Name of agreement or governing document
ISDA Master 1992 or Guarantee Agreement or Master Netting Agreement
Provide name of agreement or governing document
Varchar(50).
A3.5
Agreement date
2010-01-25
Provide the date of the agreement
YYYY-MM-DD.
A3.6
Agreement counterparty identifier
888888888
Use LEI if counterparty has one. Information needed to identify counterparty
Varchar(50)
Validated against field CP.2.
A3.6.1
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
Provide underlying QFC obligor identifier if document identifier is associated with a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if underlying QFC obligor has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A3.7
Agreement governing law
New York
Provide law governing contract disputes
Varchar(50).
A3.8
Cross-default provision?
Y/N
Specify whether agreement includes default or other termination event provisions that reference an entity not a party to the agreement (“cross-default Entity”). Information needed to determine exposure to affiliates or other entities
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.
A3.9
Identity of cross-default entities
777777777
Provide identity of any cross-default entities referenced in A3.8. Use LEI if entity has one. Information needed to determine exposure to other entities
Varchar(500)
Required if A3.8 is “Y”. ID should be a valid entry in Corporate Org Master Table or Counterparty Master Table, if applicable. Multiple entries comma separated.
A3.10
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
A3.11
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity Third-Party Credit Enhancement Provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.10 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master Table. Validated against CP.2.
A3.12
Associated third-party credit enhancement agreement document identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
33333333
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.10 is “Y”. Validated against field A3.3.
A3.12.1
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
A3.12.2
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity Third-Party Credit Enhancement Provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.12.1 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master. Validated against CP.2.
A3.12.3
Associated third-party credit enhancement agreement document identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
33333333
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.12.1 is “Y”. Validated against field A3.3.
A3.13
Counterparty contact information: name
John Doe & Co
Provide contact name for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(200).
A3.14
Counterparty contact information: address
123 Main St, City, State Zip code
Provide contact address for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(100).
A3.15
Counterparty contact information: phone
1-999-999-9999
Provide contact phone number for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(50).
A3.16
Counterparty's contact information: email address
Jdoe@JohnDoe.com
Provide contact email address for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(100).
Table A-4—Collateral Detail Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
A4.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A4.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A4.3
Collateral posted/collateral received flag
P/N
Enter “P” if collateral has been posted by the records entity. Enter “R” for collateral received by Records Entity
Char(1).
A4.4
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide identifier for counterparty. Use LEI if counterparty has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A4.5
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide identifier for applicable netting agreement
Varchar(50)
Validated against field A3.3.
A4.6
Unique collateral item identifier
CUSIP/ISIN
Provide identifier to reference individual collateral posted
Varchar(50).
A4.7
Original face amount of collateral item in local currency
1500000
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability
Num (25,5)
A4.8
Local currency of collateral item
USD
Use ISO currency code
Char(3).
A4.9
Market value amount of collateral item in U.S. dollars
850000
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability and to permit aggregation across currencies
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by Records Entity or Counterparty A2.9 or A2.10 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A4.10
Description of collateral item
U.S. Treasury Strip, maturity 2020/6/30
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability
Varchar(200).
A4.11
Asset classification
1
Provide fair value asset classification for the collateral item under GAAP, IFRS, or other accounting principles or standards used by records entity. Provide “1” for Level 1, “2” for Level 2, or “3” for Level 3
Char(1)
Should be “1” or “2” or “3.”
A4.12
Collateral or portfolio segregation status
Y/N
Specify whether the specific item of collateral or the related collateral portfolio is segregated from assets of the safekeeping agent
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
A4.13
Collateral location
ABC broker-dealer (in safekeeping account of counterparty)
Provide location of collateral posted
Varchar(200).
A4.14
Collateral jurisdiction
New York, New York
Provide jurisdiction of location of collateral posted
Varchar(50).
A4.15
Is collateral re-hypothecation allowed?
Y/N
Information needed to evaluate exposure of the records entity to the counterparty or vice-versa for re-hypothecated collateral
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
Corporate Organization Master Table 1
1
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
CO.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
CO.2
Entity identifier
888888888
Provide unique identifier. Use LEI if available. Information needed to identify entity
Varchar(50)
Should be unique across all record entities.
CO.3
Has LEI been used for entity identifier?
Y/N
Specify whether the entity identifier provided is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CO.4
Legal name of entity
John Doe & Co
Provide legal name of entity
Varchar(200).
CO.5
Immediate parent entity identifier
77777777
Use LEI if available. Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(50).
CO.6
Has LEI been used for immediate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Specify whether the immediate parent entity identifier provided is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CO.7
Legal name of immediate parent entity
John Doe & Co
Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(200).
CO.8
Percentage ownership of immediate parent entity in the entity
100.00
Information needed to complete org structure
Num (5,2).
CO.9
Entity type
Subsidiary, foreign branch,
foreign division
Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(50).
CO.10
Domicile
New York, New York
Enter as city, state or city, foreign country
Varchar(50).
CO.11
Jurisdiction under which incorporated or organized
New York
Enter as state or foreign jurisdiction
Varchar(50).
CO.12
Reporting status
REN
Indicate one of the following, as appropriate, given status of entity under the this part. Information needed to validate compliance with the requirements of this part
REN = Records entity (reporting).
NFC= Non-financial company (not reporting)
EXC = Excluded entity (not reporting)
ZER = Records entity with 0 QFCs (not reporting)
DEM = Records entity de minimis exemption (not reporting)
OTH = Records entity using another exemption (not reporting)
Char(3)
Should be “REN” or “NFC” or “EXC” or “DEM” or “ZER” or “OTH.”
1
Foreign branches and divisions shall be separately identified to the extent they are identified in an entity's reports to its PFRAs.
Counterparty Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
CP.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
CP.2
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Use LEI if counterparty has one. Should be used consistently across all records entities within a corporate group. The counterparty identifier shall be the global legal entity identifier if one has been issued to the entity. If a counterparty transacts with the records entity through one or more separate foreign branches or divisions and any such branch or division does not have its own unique global legal entity identifier, the records entity must include additional identifiers, as appropriate to enable the FDIC to aggregate or disaggregate the data for each counterparty and for each entity with the same ultimate parent entity as the counterparty
Varchar(50).
CP.3
Has LEI been used for counterparty identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the counterparty identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CP.4
Legal name of counterparty
John Doe & Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(200).
CP.5
Domicile
New York, New York
Enter as city, state or city, foreign country
Varchar(50).
CP.6
Jurisdiction under which incorporated or organized
New York
Enter as state or foreign jurisdiction
Varchar(50).
CP.7
Immediate parent entity identifier
77777777
Provide an identifier for the parent entity that directly controls the counterparty. Use LEI if immediate parent entity has one
Varchar(50).
CP.8
Has LEI been used for immediate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the immediate parent entity identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CP.9
Legal name of immediate parent entity
John Doe & Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(200).
CP.10
Ultimate parent entity identifier
666666666
Provide an identifier for the parent entity that is a member of the corporate group of the counterparty that is not controlled by another entity. Information needed to identify counterparty. Use LEI if ultimate parent entity has one
Varchar(50)
CP.11
Has LEI been used for ultimate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the ultimate parent entity identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CP.12
Legal name of ultimate parent entity
John Doe & Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(100).
Booking Location Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
BL.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
BL.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI
Varchar(50)
Should be a valid entry in the Corporate Org Master Table.
BL.3
Internal booking location identifier
New York, New York
Provide office where the position is booked. Information needed to determine the headquarters or branch where the position is booked, including the system on which the trade is booked, as well as the system on which the trade is settled
Varchar(50).
BL.4
Unique booking unit or desk identifier
xxxxxx
Provide unit or desk at which the position is booked. Information needed to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50).
BL.5
Unique booking unit or desk description
North American trading desk
Additional information to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50).
BL.6
Booking unit or desk contact—phone
1-999-999-9999
Information needed to communicate with the booking unit or desk
Varchar(50).
BL.7
Booking unit or desk contact—email
Desk@Desk.com
Information needed to communicate with the booking unit or desk
Varchar(100).
Safekeeping Agent Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
SA.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD
SA.2
Safekeeping agent identifier
888888888
Provide an identifier for the safekeeping agent. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50).
SA.3
Legal name of safekeeping agent
John Doe & Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(200).
SA.4
Point of contact—name
John Doe
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(200).
SA.5
Point of contact—address
123 Main St, City, State Zip Code
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(100).
SA.6
Point of contact—phone
1-999-999-9999
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(50).
SA.7
Point of contact—email
Jdoe@JohnDoe.com
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(100).
Details of Formats
Format
Content in brief
Additional explanation
Examples
YYYY-MM-DD
Date
YYYY = four digit date, MM = 2 digit month, DD = 2 digit date
2015-11-12
Num (25,5)
Up to 25 numerical characters including 5 decimals
Up to 20 numerical characters before the decimal point and up to 5 numerical characters after the decimal point. The dot character is used to separate decimals
1352.67
12345678901234567890.12345
0
−20000.25
−0.257
Char(3)
3 alphanumeric characters
The length is fixed at 3 alphanumeric characters
USD
X1X
999
Varchar(25)
Up to 25 alphanumeric characters
The length is not fixed but limited at up to 25 alphanumeric characters
asgaGEH3268EFdsagtTRCF543

PART 149—CALCULATION OF MAXIMUM OBLIGATION LIMITATION

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 321 and 12 U.S.C. 5390.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321 and 12 U.S.C. 5390.
[Source:77 FR 37558, June 22, 2012, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
77 FR 37558, June 22, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

§ 149.1   Authority and purpose.

(a) Authority. This part is issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) under section 210(n)(7) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Act).
Authority.
This part is issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) under section 210(n)(7) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Act).
(b) Purpose. The purpose of this part is to issue implementing regulations as required by the Act. The part governs the calculation of the maximum obligation limitation which limits the aggregate amount of outstanding obligations the FDIC may issue or incur in connection with the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company.
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to issue implementing regulations as required by the Act. The part governs the calculation of the maximum obligation limitation which limits the aggregate amount of outstanding obligations the FDIC may issue or incur in connection with the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company.

§ 149.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:
Fair value. The term “fair value” means the expected total aggregate value of each asset, or group of assets that are managed within a portfolio of a covered financial company on a consolidated basis if such asset, or group of assets, was sold or otherwise disposed of in an orderly transaction.
Fair value.
The term “fair value” means the expected total aggregate value of each asset, or group of assets that are managed within a portfolio of a covered financial company on a consolidated basis if such asset, or group of assets, was sold or otherwise disposed of in an orderly transaction.
Most recent financial statement available. (1) The term “most recent financial statement available” means a covered financial company's—
Most recent financial statement available.
(1) The term “most recent financial statement available” means a covered financial company's—
(i) Most recent financial statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body;
(ii) Most recent financial statement audited by an independent CPA firm; or
(iii) Other available financial statements.
(2) The FDIC and the Treasury will jointly determine the most pertinent of the above financial statements, taking into consideration the timeliness and reliability of the statements being considered.
Obligation. The term “obligation” means, with respect to any covered financial company—
Obligation.
The term “obligation” means, with respect to any covered financial company—
(1) Any guarantee issued by the FDIC on behalf of the covered financial company;
(2) Any amount borrowed pursuant to section 210(n)(5)(A) of the Act; and
(3) Any other obligation with respect to the covered financial company for which the FDIC has a direct or contingent liability to pay any amount.
Total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment. The term “total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment” means the difference between:
Total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment.
The term “total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment” means the difference between:
(1) The total assets of the covered financial company on a consolidated basis that are available for liquidation during the operation of the receivership; and
(2) To the extent included in paragraph (1) of this definition, all assets that are separated from, or made unavailable to, the covered financial company by a statutory or regulatory barrier that prevents the covered financial company from possessing or selling assets and using the proceeds from the sale of such assets.

§ 149.3   Maximum obligation limitation.

The FDIC shall not, in connection with the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company, issue or incur any obligation, if, after issuing or incurring the obligation, the aggregate amount of such obligations outstanding for each covered financial company would exceed—
(a) An amount that is equal to 10 percent of the total consolidated assets of the covered financial company, based on the most recent financial statement available, during the 30-day period immediately following the date of appointment of the FDIC as receiver (or a shorter time period if the FDIC has calculated the amount described under paragraph (b) of this section); and
(b) The amount that is equal to 90 percent of the fair value of the total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment, after the time period described in paragraph (a) of this section.

PART 150—FINANCIAL RESEARCH FUND

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 5345; 31 U.S.C. 321; 12 U.S.C. 5365 note (Section 401(d), Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1358; Section 401(f), Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1359).]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5345; 31 U.S.C. 321; 12 U.S.C. 5365
note
(Section 401(d), Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1358; Section 401(f), Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1359).
[Source:85 FR 15380, Mar. 18, 2020, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
85 FR 15380, Mar. 18, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

§ 150.1   Scope.

The assessments contained in this part are made pursuant to the authority contained in 12 U.S.C. 5345.

§ 150.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:
Assessed company means:
Assessed company
means:
(1) A bank holding company that has $250 billion or more in total assessable assets; or
(2) A bank holding company, regardless of asset size, that has been identified as a global systemically important bank holding company under § 217.402 of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations; or
(3) A nonbank financial company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act shall be supervised by the Board.
Assessment basis means, for a given assessment period, an estimate of the total expenses that are necessary or appropriate to carry out the responsibilities of the Office of Financial Research (OFR) and the Council as set out in the Dodd-Frank Act (including an amount necessary to reimburse reasonable implementation expenses of the Corporation that shall be treated as expenses of the Council pursuant to section 210(n)(10) of the Dodd-Frank Act).
Assessment basis
means, for a given assessment period, an estimate of the total expenses that are necessary or appropriate to carry out the responsibilities of the Office of Financial Research (OFR) and the Council as set out in the Dodd-Frank Act (including an amount necessary to reimburse reasonable implementation expenses of the Corporation that shall be treated as expenses of the Council pursuant to section 210(n)(10) of the Dodd-Frank Act).
Assessment fee rate, with regard to a particular assessment period, means the rate published by the Department for the calculation of assessment fees for that period.
Assessment fee rate,
with regard to a particular assessment period, means the rate published by the Department for the calculation of assessment fees for that period.
Assessment payment date means:
Assessment payment date
means:
(1) For any assessment period ending on March 31 of a given calendar year, September 15 of the prior calendar year; and
(2) For any assessment period ending on September 30 of a given calendar year, March 15 of the same year.
Assessment period means:
Assessment period
means:
(1) Any period of time beginning on October 1 and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year; or
(2) Any period of time beginning on April 1 and ending on September 30 of the same calendar year.
Bank holding company means:
Bank holding company
means:
(1) A bank holding company as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841); or
(2) A foreign banking organization.
Board means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Corporation means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Corporation
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Council means the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
Council
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
Department means the Department of the Treasury.
Department
means the Department of the Treasury.
Determination date means:
Determination date
means:
(1) For any assessment period ending on March 31 of a given calendar year, April 30 of the prior calendar year; and
(2) For any assessment period ending on September 30 of a given calendar year, October 31 of the prior calendar year.
Dodd-Frank Act means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
Foreign banking organization means a foreign bank or company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, pursuant to section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)).
Foreign banking organization
means a foreign bank or company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, pursuant to section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)).
OFR means the Office of Financial Research established by section 152 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
OFR
means the Office of Financial Research established by section 152 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Total assessable assets means:
Total assessable assets
means:
(1) For a bank holding company other than a foreign banking organization, the average of the company's total consolidated assets for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, as reported on the bank holding company's four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies—FR Y-9C filings;
(2) For any foreign banking organization, the average of the company's total assets of combined U.S. operations for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, as reported on the foreign banking organization's four most recent quarterly Capital and Asset Report for Foreign Banking Organizations—FR Y-7Q filings, or, if the foreign banking organization only files such form annually, the average of the two most recent annual filings on such form; or
(3) For a nonbank financial company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act shall be supervised by the Board, either the average of the company's total consolidated assets for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, if the company is a U.S. company, or the average of the total assets of the company's combined U.S. operations for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, if the company is a non-U.S. company.

§ 150.3   Determination of assessed companies.

(a) The determination that a bank holding company or a nonbank financial company is an assessed company will be made by the Department.
(b) The Department will apply the following principles in determining whether a company is an assessed company:
(1) For tiered bank holding companies for which a holding company owns or controls, or is owned or controlled by, other holding companies, the assessed company shall be the top-tier, regulated holding company.
(2) In situations where more than one top-tier, regulated bank holding company has a legal authority for control of a U.S. bank, each of the top-tier regulated holding companies shall be designated as an assessed company.
(3) In situations where a company has not filed four consecutive quarters of the financial reports referenced above for the most recent quarters (or two consecutive years for annual filers of the FR Y-7Q or successor form), such as may be true for companies that recently converted to a bank holding company, the Department will use, at its discretion, other financial or annual reports filed by the company, such as Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, to determine a company's total consolidated assets.
(4) In situations where a company does not report total consolidated assets in its public reports or where a company uses a financial reporting methodology other than U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to report on its U.S. operations, the Department will use, at its discretion, any comparable financial information that the Department may require from the company for this determination.
(c) Any company that the Department determines is an assessed company on a given determination date will be an assessed company for the entire assessment period related to such determination date, and will be subject to the full assessment fee for that assessment period, regardless of any changes in the company's assets or other attributes that occur after the determination date.

§ 150.4   Calculation of assessment basis.

For each assessment period, the Department will calculate an assessment basis that shall be sufficient to replenish the Financial Research Fund to a level equivalent to the sum of:
(a) Budgeted operating expenses for the OFR for the applicable assessment period;
(b) Budgeted operating expenses for the Council for the applicable assessment period;
(c) Budgeted capital expenses for the OFR for the 12-month period beginning on the first day of the applicable assessment period;
(d) Budgeted capital expenses for the Council for the 12-month period beginning on the first day of the applicable assessment period; and
(e) An amount necessary to reimburse reasonable implementation expenses of the Corporation as provided under section 210(n)(10) of the Dodd-Frank Act.

§ 150.5   Calculation of assessments.

(a) For each assessed company, the Department will calculate the total assessable assets in accordance with the definition in § 150.2.
(b) The Department will allocate the assessment basis to the assessed companies in the following manner:
(1) Based on the sum of all assessed companies' total assessable assets, the Department will calculate the assessment fee rate necessary to collect the assessment basis for the applicable assessment period.
(2) The assessment payable by an assessed company for each assessment period shall be equal to the assessment fee rate for that assessment period multiplied by the total assessable assets of such assessed company.

§ 150.6   Notice and payment of assessments.

(a) No later than fifteen calendar days after the determination date, the Department will send to each assessed company a statement that:
(1) Confirms that such company has been determined by the Department to be an assessed company; and
(2) States the total assessable assets that the Department has determined will be used for calculating the company's assessment.
(b) If a company that is required to make an assessment payment for a given assessment period believes that the statement referred to in paragraph (a) of this section contains an error, the company may provide the Department with a written request for a revised statement. Such request must be received by the Department via email within 30 calendar days and must include all facts that the company requests the Department to consider. The Department will respond to all such requests within 21 calendar days of receipt thereof.
(c) No later than the 14 calendar days prior to the payment date for a given assessment period, the Department will send an electronic billing notification to each assessed company, containing the final assessment that is required to be paid by such assessed company.
(d) For the purpose of making the payments described in § 150.5, each assessed company shall designate a deposit account for direct debit by the Department through www.pay.gov or successor website. No later than the later of 30 days prior to the payment date for an assessment period, or April 17, 2020, each such company shall provide notice to the Department of the account designated, including all information and authorizations required by the Department for direct debit of the account. After the initial notice of the designated account, no further notice is required unless the company designates a different account for assessment debit by the Department, in which case the requirements of the preceding sentence apply.
www.pay.gov
or successor website. No later than the later of 30 days prior to the payment date for an assessment period, or April 17, 2020, each such company shall provide notice to the Department of the account designated, including all information and authorizations required by the Department for direct debit of the account. After the initial notice of the designated account, no further notice is required unless the company designates a different account for assessment debit by the Department, in which case the requirements of the preceding sentence apply.
(e) Each assessed company shall take all actions necessary to allow the Department to debit assessments from such company's designated deposit account. Each such company shall, prior to each assessment payment date, ensure that funds in an amount at least equal to the amount on the relevant electronic billing notification are available in the designated deposit account for debit by the Department. Failure to take any such action or to provide such funding of the account shall be deemed to constitute nonpayment of the assessment. The Department will cause the amount stated in the applicable electronic billing notification to be directly debited on the appropriate payment date from the deposit account so designated.
(f) In the event that, for a given assessment period, an assessed company materially misstates or misrepresents any information that is used by the Department in calculating that company's total assessable assets, the Department may at any time re-calculate the assessment payable by that company for that assessment period, and the assessed company shall take all actions necessary to allow the Department to immediately debit any additional payable amounts from such assessed company's designated deposit account.
(g) If a due date under this section falls on a date that is not a business day, the applicable date shall be the next business day.

PARTS 151-199 [RESERVED]


CHAPTER II—FISCAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


SUBCHAPTER A—BUREAU OF THE FISCAL SERVICE

Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to subchapter A appear at 78 FR 60697, Oct. 2, 2013.

PARTS 200-201 [RESERVED]


PART 202—DEPOSITARIES AND FINANCIAL AGENTS OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

1
1 The regulations, which previously appeared in this part, governing payment of checks drawn on the United States Treasury now appear in revised form in part 240 of this chapter (Department Circular 21 (Second Revision)).
1
The regulations, which previously appeared in this part, governing payment of checks drawn on the United States Treasury now appear in revised form in part 240 of this chapter (Department Circular 21 (Second Revision)).
[Authority:12 U.S.C. 90, 265-266, 391, 1452(d), 1464(k), 1789a, 2013, 2122 and 3101-3102; 31 U.S.C. 3303 and 3336.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 90, 265-266, 391, 1452(d), 1464(k), 1789a, 2013, 2122 and 3101-3102; 31 U.S.C. 3303 and 3336.

§ 202.1   Scope of regulations.

The regulations in this part govern the designation of Depositaries and Financial Agents of the Federal Government (hereinafter referred to as depositaries), and their authorization to accept deposits of public money and to perform other services as may be required of them. Public money includes, but is not limited to, revenue and funds of the United States, and any funds the deposit of which is subject to the control or regulation of the United States or any of its officers, agents, or employees. The designation and authorization of Treasury Tax and Loan depositaries for the receipt of deposits representing Federal taxes are governed by the regulations in part 203 of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45520, Aug. 27, 1997]]

§ 202.2   Designations.

(a) Financial institutions of the following classes are designated as Depositaries and Financial Agents of the Government if they meet the eligibility requirements stated in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Financial institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(2) Credit unions insured by the National Credit Union Administration.
(3) Banks, savings banks, savings and loan, building and loan, and homestead associations, credit unions created under the laws of any State, the deposits or accounts of which are insured by a State or agency thereof or by a corporation chartered by a State for the sole purpose of insuring deposits or accounts of such financial institutions, United States branches of foreign banking corporations authorized by the State in which they are located to transact commercial banking business, and Federal branches of foreign banking corporations, the establishment of which has been approved by the Comptroller of the Currency.
(b) In order to be eligible for designation, a financial institution is required to possess, under its charter and the regulations issued by its chartering authority, either general or specific authority to perform the services outlined in § 202.3(b). A financial institution is required also to possess the authority to pledge collateral to secure public funds.
[[44 FR 53066, Sept. 11, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 28152, May 26, 1981; 62 FR 45521, Aug. 27, 1997]]

§ 202.3   Authorization.

(a) To accept deposits covered by the appropriate Federal or State insurer. Every depositary is authorized to accept a deposit of public money in an official account, other than an account in the name of the United States Treasury, in which the maximum balance does not exceed the “Recognized Insurance Coverage.” “Recognized Insurance Coverage” means the insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, and by insurance organizations specifically qualified by the Secretary of the Treasury.
To accept deposits covered by the appropriate Federal or State insurer.
Every depositary is authorized to accept a deposit of public money in an official account, other than an account in the name of the United States Treasury, in which the maximum balance does not exceed the “Recognized Insurance Coverage.” “Recognized Insurance Coverage” means the insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, and by insurance organizations specifically qualified by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) To perform other services. (1) The Secretary of the Treasury may authorize a depositary to perform other services including, but not limited to:
To perform other services.
(1) The Secretary of the Treasury may authorize a depositary to perform other services including, but not limited to:
(i) The maintenance of official accounts in which balances will be in excess of the applicable Federal or State insurance coverage;
(ii) The maintenance of accounts in the name of the United States Treasury;
(iii) The acceptance of deposits for credit of the United States Treasury;
(iv) The furnishing of bank drafts in exchange for collections.
(2) To obtain authorization to perform services, a depositary must:
(i) File with the Secretary of the Treasury an appropriate agreement and resolution of its board of directors authorizing the agreement (both on forms prescribed by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service and available from Federal Reserve Banks), and
(ii) Pledge collateral security as provided for in § 202.6.
[[32 FR 14215, Oct. 13, 1967, as amended at 44 FR 53066, Sept. 11, 1979; 49 FR 47001, Nov. 30, 1984; 62 FR 45521, Aug. 27, 1997]]

§ 202.4   Agreement of deposit.

A depositary which accepts a deposit under this part enters into an agreement of deposit with the Treasury Department. The terms of this agreement include:
(a) All of the provisions of this part.
(b) Any instructions issued pursuant to this part by the Treasury or by Federal Reserve Banks as Fiscal Agents of the United States or by any other Government agency.
(c) The provisions prescribed in Executive Order 11246, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity,” as amended by Executive Orders 11375 and 12086, and regulations issued thereunder at 41 CFR chapter 60, as amended.
(d) The requirements of section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder at 41 CFR part 60-741, requiring Federal contractors to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities.
(e) The requirements of section 503 of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1972, as amended, 38 U.S.C. 4212, Executive Order 11701, and the regulations issued thereunder at 41 CFR parts 60-250 and 61-250, requiring Federal contractors to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified special disabled and Vietnam Era veterans.
[[44 FR 53067, Sept. 11, 1979, as amended at 62 FR 45521, Aug. 27, 1997]]

§ 202.5   Previously designated depositaries.

A depositary previously designated will, by the acceptance or retention of deposits, be presumed to have assented to all the terms and provisions of this part and to the retention of collateral security theretofore pledged.
[[32 FR 14215, Oct. 13, 1967]]

§ 202.6   Collateral security.

(a) Requirement. Prior to receiving deposits of public money, a depositary authorized to perform services under § 202.3(b) must pledge collateral security in the amount required by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Requirement.
Prior to receiving deposits of public money, a depositary authorized to perform services under § 202.3(b) must pledge collateral security in the amount required by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) Acceptable security. Types and valuations of acceptable collateral security are addressed in 31 CFR part 380. For a current list of acceptable classes of securities and instruments described in 31 CFR part 380 and their valuations, see the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's web site at www.publicdebt.treas.gov.
Acceptable security.
Types and valuations of acceptable collateral security are addressed in 31 CFR part 380. For a current list of acceptable classes of securities and instruments described in 31 CFR part 380 and their valuations, see the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's web site at
www.publicdebt.treas.gov.
(c) Deposits of securities. Unless the Secretary of the Treasury provides otherwise, collateral security under this part must be deposited with the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch of the district in which the depositary is located (depositaries located in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands will be considered as being located in the New York Federal Reserve district), or with a custodian or custodians within the United States designated by the Federal Reserve Bank, under terms and conditions prescribed by the Federal Reserve Bank. Securities deposited with a Federal Reserve Bank must be accompanied by a letter stating specifically the purpose for which the securities are being deposited.
Deposits of securities.
Unless the Secretary of the Treasury provides otherwise, collateral security under this part must be deposited with the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch of the district in which the depositary is located (depositaries located in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands will be considered as being located in the New York Federal Reserve district), or with a custodian or custodians within the United States designated by the Federal Reserve Bank, under terms and conditions prescribed by the Federal Reserve Bank. Securities deposited with a Federal Reserve Bank must be accompanied by a letter stating specifically the purpose for which the securities are being deposited.
(d) Assignment. A depository that pledges securities which are not negotiable without its endorsement or assignment may, in lieu of placing its unqualified endorsement on each security, furnish an appropriate resolution and irrevocable power of attorney authorizing the Federal Reserve Bank to assign the securities. The resolution and power of attorney shall conform to such terms and conditions as the Federal Reserve Banks shall prescribe.
Assignment.
A depository that pledges securities which are not negotiable without its endorsement or assignment may, in lieu of placing its unqualified endorsement on each security, furnish an appropriate resolution and irrevocable power of attorney authorizing the Federal Reserve Bank to assign the securities. The resolution and power of attorney shall conform to such terms and conditions as the Federal Reserve Banks shall prescribe.
(e) Disposition of principal and interest payments of the pledged securities after a depositary is declared insolvent—(1) General. In the event of the depositary's insolvency or closure, or in the event of the appointment of a receiver, conservator, liquidator, or other similar officer to terminate its business, the depositary agrees that all principal and interest payments on any security pledged to protect public money due as of the date of the insolvency or closure, or thereafter becoming due, shall be held separate and apart from any other assets and shall constitute a part of the pledged security available to satisfy any claim of the United States, including those not arising out of the depositary relationship.
Disposition of principal and interest payments of the pledged securities after a depositary is declared insolvent
—(1)
General.
In the event of the depositary's insolvency or closure, or in the event of the appointment of a receiver, conservator, liquidator, or other similar officer to terminate its business, the depositary agrees that all principal and interest payments on any security pledged to protect public money due as of the date of the insolvency or closure, or thereafter becoming due, shall be held separate and apart from any other assets and shall constitute a part of the pledged security available to satisfy any claim of the United States, including those not arising out of the depositary relationship.
(2) Payment procedures. (i) Subject to the waiver in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, each depositary (including, with respect to such depositary, an assignee for the benefit of creditors, a trustee in bankruptcy, or a receiver in equity) shall immediately remit each payment of principal and/or interest received by it with respect to collateral pledged pursuant to this section to the Federal Reserve Bank of the district, as fiscal agent of the United States, and in any event shall so remit no later than ten days after receipt of such a payment.
Payment procedures.
(i) Subject to the waiver in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, each depositary (including, with respect to such depositary, an assignee for the benefit of creditors, a trustee in bankruptcy, or a receiver in equity) shall immediately remit each payment of principal and/or interest received by it with respect to collateral pledged pursuant to this section to the Federal Reserve Bank of the district, as fiscal agent of the United States, and in any event shall so remit no later than ten days after receipt of such a payment.
(ii) Subject to the waiver in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, each obligor on a security pledged by a depositary pursuant to this section shall make each payment of principal and/or interest with respect to such security directly to the Federal Reserve Bank of the district, as fiscal agent of the United States.
(iii) The requirements of paragraphs (e)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section are hereby waived for only so long as a pledging depositary remains solvent. The foregoing waiver is terminated without further action immediately upon the insolvency of a pledging depositary or, if earlier, upon notice by the Treasury of such termination. For purposes of this paragraph, a depositary is insolvent when, voluntarily or by action of competent authority, it is closed because of present or prospective inability to meet the demands of its depositors or shareholders.
[[32 FR 14216, Oct. 13, 1967, as amended at 36 FR 6748, Apr. 8, 1971; 36 FR 17995, Sept. 8, 1971; 39 FR 30832, Aug. 26, 1974; 44 FR 53067, Sept. 11, 1979; 46 FR 28152, May 26, 1981; 62 FR 45521, Aug. 27, 1997; 65 FR 55428, Sept. 13, 2000]]

§ 202.7   Maintenance of balances within authorizations.

(a) Federal Government agencies shall contact the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, before making deposits with a financial institution insured by a State or agency thereof or by a corporation chartered by a State for the sole purpose of insuring deposits or accounts. The contact should be directed to the Cash Management Policy and Planning Division, Federal Finance, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20227.
(b) Government agencies having control or jurisdiction over public money on deposit in accounts with depositaries are responsible for the maintenance of balances in such accounts within the limits of the authorizations specified by the Secretary of the Treasury.
[[44 FR 53067, Sept. 11, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 47001, Nov. 30, 1984; 62 FR 45521, Aug. 27, 1997]]

PART 203—PAYMENT OF FEDERAL TAXES AND THE TREASURY TAX AND LOAN PROGRAM

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 90,265-266, 332, 391, 1452(d), 1464(k), 1767, 1789a, 2013, 2122, and 3102; 26 U.S.C. 6302; 31 U.S.C. 321, 323, and 3301-3304.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 90,265-266, 332, 391, 1452(d), 1464(k), 1767, 1789a, 2013, 2122, and 3102; 26 U.S.C. 6302; 31 U.S.C. 321, 323, and 3301-3304.
[Source:72 FR 59181, Oct. 19, 2007, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
72 FR 59181, Oct. 19, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 203.1   Scope.

The regulations in this part govern the processing by financial institutions of electronic and paper-based deposits and payments of Federal taxes; the operation of the Treasury Tax and Loan (TT&L) program; the designation of TT&L depositaries; and the operation of the investment program. A financial institution may participate in the TT&L program by participating in the investment program or by accepting Federal tax payments, or both. A financial institution that accepts Federal tax payments may do so through the paper tax system (PATAX), or Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS), or both. However, a financial institution is not designated as a TT&L depositary if it only processes EFTPS payments.

§ 203.2   Definitions.

Advice of credit (AOC) means the paper or electronic form depositaries use to summarize and report Federal Tax Deposit (FTD) coupon deposits to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB).
Advice of credit (AOC)
means the paper or electronic form depositaries use to summarize and report Federal Tax Deposit (FTD) coupon deposits to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Federal Reserve Bank (FRB).
Automated Clearing House (ACH) credit entry means a credit transaction originated by a financial institution, at the direction of the taxpayer, in accordance with applicable ACH formats and applicable laws, regulations, and procedural instructions.
Automated Clearing House (ACH) credit entry
means a credit transaction originated by a financial institution, at the direction of the taxpayer, in accordance with applicable ACH formats and applicable laws, regulations, and procedural instructions.
ACH debit entry means a debit transaction originated by the Treasury Financial Agent (TFA), at the direction of the taxpayer, in accordance with applicable ACH formats and applicable laws, regulations, and instructions.
ACH debit entry
means a debit transaction originated by the Treasury Financial Agent (TFA), at the direction of the taxpayer, in accordance with applicable ACH formats and applicable laws, regulations, and instructions.
Balance limit means the highest amount a depositary has stated it will accept in its Treasury Investment Program (TIP) main account.
Balance limit
means the highest amount a depositary has stated it will accept in its Treasury Investment Program (TIP) main account.
Borrower-In-Custody (BIC) collateral means an arrangement by which a financial institution pledging collateral to secure special direct investments and certain term investments is permitted to retain possession of that collateral, subject to terms and conditions agreed upon between the FRB and the financial institution.
Borrower-In-Custody (BIC) collateral
means an arrangement by which a financial institution pledging collateral to secure special direct investments and certain term investments is permitted to retain possession of that collateral, subject to terms and conditions agreed upon between the FRB and the financial institution.
Business day means any day on which a financial institution's FRB is open.
Business day
means any day on which a financial institution's FRB is open.
Capacity means a TT&L depositary's ability to accept additional investments in its TIP main account balance and/or its Special Direct Investment (SDI) account balance. With respect to a TT&L depositary's TIP main account balance, capacity means the balance limit or current collateral value, whichever is lower, minus the total of: the depositary's current TIP main account balance and any pending investments, plus any pending withdrawals. With respect to an SDI account balance, capacity means the dollar amount of collateral that the depositary has pledged for SDIs under a BIC arrangement minus the total of: the depositary's current SDI account balance and any pending investments, plus any pending withdrawals.
Capacity
means a TT&L depositary's ability to accept additional investments in its TIP main account balance and/or its Special Direct Investment (SDI) account balance. With respect to a TT&L depositary's TIP main account balance, capacity means the balance limit or current collateral value, whichever is lower, minus the total of: the depositary's current TIP main account balance and any pending investments, plus any pending withdrawals. With respect to an SDI account balance, capacity means the dollar amount of collateral that the depositary has pledged for SDIs under a BIC arrangement minus the total of: the depositary's current SDI account balance and any pending investments, plus any pending withdrawals.
Collector depositary means a TT&L depositary that accepts paper tax payments from business customers and that may also process electronic tax payments from customers, but that does not retain any such deposits as investments or accept dynamic, direct, or special direct investments. A collector depositary may accept term investments.
Collector depositary
means a TT&L depositary that accepts paper tax payments from business customers and that may also process electronic tax payments from customers, but that does not retain any such deposits as investments or accept dynamic, direct, or special direct investments. A collector depositary may accept term investments.
Direct investment means the Department of the Treasury's (Treasury's) placement of funds with a TT&L depositary, which results in an increase to the depositary's TIP main account balance and a credit to its reserve account.
Direct investment
means the Department of the Treasury's (Treasury's) placement of funds with a TT&L depositary, which results in an increase to the depositary's TIP main account balance and a credit to its reserve account.
Dynamic investment means Treasury's placement of funds with a TT&L depositary throughout the day, which results in an increase to the depositary's TIP main account balance and a credit to its reserve account.
Dynamic investment
means Treasury's placement of funds with a TT&L depositary throughout the day, which results in an increase to the depositary's TIP main account balance and a credit to its reserve account.
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) means the system through which taxpayers remit Federal tax payments electronically.
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
means the system through which taxpayers remit Federal tax payments electronically.
Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) means the FRB of the district where the financial institution is located, or such other FRB that may be designated in an FRB operating circular, or such other FRB that may be designated by the Treasury. A financial institution is deemed located in the same district it would be deemed located for purposes of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.3(b)(2)), even if the financial institution is not otherwise subject to Regulation D.
Federal Reserve Bank (FRB)
means the FRB of the district where the financial institution is located, or such other FRB that may be designated in an FRB operating circular, or such other FRB that may be designated by the Treasury. A financial institution is deemed located in the same district it would be deemed located for purposes of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.3(b)(2)), even if the financial institution is not otherwise subject to Regulation D.
Federal Tax Deposit (FTD) means a Federal tax deposit made using an FTD coupon.
Federal Tax Deposit (FTD)
means a Federal tax deposit made using an FTD coupon.
FTD coupon means a paper form supplied to a taxpayer by Treasury to accompany deposits of Federal taxes made through PATAX.
FTD coupon
means a paper form supplied to a taxpayer by Treasury to accompany deposits of Federal taxes made through PATAX.
Federal taxes means those Federal taxes or other payments specified by the Secretary of the Treasury as eligible for payment through the procedures described in this part.
Federal taxes
means those Federal taxes or other payments specified by the Secretary of the Treasury as eligible for payment through the procedures described in this part.
Fedwire ®1 means the funds transfer system owned and operated by the FRBs.
Fedwire
®
1
means the funds transfer system owned and operated by the FRBs.
Fedwire ® non-value transaction means the same-day Federal tax payment information transmitted by a financial institution to an FRB using a Fedwire@ type 1090 message to authorize a payment.
Fedwire
®
non-value transaction
means the same-day Federal tax payment information transmitted by a financial institution to an FRB using a Fedwire@ type 1090 message to authorize a payment.
Fedwire ® value transfer means a Federal tax payment made by a financial institution using a Fedwire ® type 1000 message.
Fedwire
®
value transfer
means a Federal tax payment made by a financial institution using a Fedwire ® type 1000 message.
Financial institution means any bank, savings bank, savings association, credit union, or similar institution.
Financial institution
means any bank, savings bank, savings association, credit union, or similar institution.
Fiscal agent means the FRB acting as agent for Treasury.
Fiscal agent
means the FRB acting as agent for Treasury.
Investment program is the all-inclusive name given to the programs by which Treasury invests excess operating cash.
Investment program
is the all-inclusive name given to the programs by which Treasury invests excess operating cash.
Investor depositary means a TT&L depositary that is authorized to participate in the investment program by accepting funds from Treasury via direct investments, special direct investments, dynamic investments, or term investments. In addition, an investor depositary may accept electronic or paper Federal tax payments from its business customers and retain a portion of those tax deposits, depending on the capacity of its TIP main account balance.
Investor depositary
means a TT&L depositary that is authorized to participate in the investment program by accepting funds from Treasury via direct investments, special direct investments, dynamic investments, or term investments. In addition, an investor depositary may accept electronic or paper Federal tax payments from its business customers and retain a portion of those tax deposits, depending on the capacity of its TIP main account balance.
Paper Tax System (PATAX) means the paper-based system through which taxpayers remit Federal tax payments by presenting an FTD coupon and payment to a TT&L depositary.
Paper Tax System (PATAX)
means the paper-based system through which taxpayers remit Federal tax payments by presenting an FTD coupon and payment to a TT&L depositary.
Procedural instructions means the procedures contained in the Treasury Financial Manual, Volume IV (IV TFM), other Treasury instructions issued by Treasury or through Treasury's Financial Agents and FRB operating circulars, and agreements issued consistent with this part.
Procedural instructions
means the procedures contained in the Treasury Financial Manual, Volume IV (IV TFM), other Treasury instructions issued by Treasury or through Treasury's Financial Agents and FRB operating circulars, and agreements issued consistent with this part.
Recognized insurance coverage means the insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, and insurance organizations specifically qualified by the Secretary.
Recognized insurance coverage
means the insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, and insurance organizations specifically qualified by the Secretary.
Reserve account means an account at an FRB with reserve or clearing balances held by a financial institution or its designated correspondent financial institution, if applicable.
Reserve account
means an account at an FRB with reserve or clearing balances held by a financial institution or its designated correspondent financial institution, if applicable.
Retainer depositary means a TT&L depositary that accepts electronic and/or paper Federal tax payments from its business customers and retains a portion of the Federal tax deposits in its TIP main account balance, depending on its balance limit, account balance, and collateral value. A retainer depositary may also accept term investments.
Retainer depositary
means a TT&L depositary that accepts electronic and/or paper Federal tax payments from its business customers and retains a portion of the Federal tax deposits in its TIP main account balance, depending on its balance limit, account balance, and collateral value. A retainer depositary may also accept term investments.
Same-day payment means a payment made by a Fedwire ® non-value transaction or a Fedwire ® value transaction.
Same-day payment
means a payment made by a Fedwire ® non-value transaction or a Fedwire ® value transaction.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary's delegate.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary's delegate.
Special Direct Investment (SDI) means the placement by Treasury of funds with an investor depositary secured by collateral pledged under a BIC arrangement.
Special Direct Investment (SDI)
means the placement by Treasury of funds with an investor depositary secured by collateral pledged under a BIC arrangement.
SDI account balance means an open-ended, interest-bearing note maintained on the books of the Treasury Support Center representing the amount of SDIs held by an investor depositary and secured by collateral pledged under a BIC arrangement.
SDI account balance
means an open-ended, interest-bearing note maintained on the books of the Treasury Support Center representing the amount of SDIs held by an investor depositary and secured by collateral pledged under a BIC arrangement.
Tax due date means the day on which a Federal tax payment is due to Treasury, as determined by statute and IRS regulations.
Tax due date
means the day on which a Federal tax payment is due to Treasury, as determined by statute and IRS regulations.
Term Investments means Treasury's excess operating funds that have been offered for a predetermined period of time and accepted by depositaries participating in the Term Investment Option.
Term Investments
means Treasury's excess operating funds that have been offered for a predetermined period of time and accepted by depositaries participating in the Term Investment Option.
Term Investment Option (TIO) means the program available to depositaries that offers the ability to borrow excess Treasury operating funds for a predetermined period of time.
Term Investment Option (TIO)
means the program available to depositaries that offers the ability to borrow excess Treasury operating funds for a predetermined period of time.
TIO account balance means an interest-bearing note maintained on the books of the Treasury Support Center for a predetermined period of time.
TIO account balance
means an interest-bearing note maintained on the books of the Treasury Support Center for a predetermined period of time.
Treasury Financial Agent (TFA) means a financial institution designated as an agent of Treasury for processing EFTPS enrollments, consolidating EFTPS tax payment information, and originating ACH debit entries on behalf of Treasury as authorized by the taxpayer.
Treasury Financial Agent (TFA)
means a financial institution designated as an agent of Treasury for processing EFTPS enrollments, consolidating EFTPS tax payment information, and originating ACH debit entries on behalf of Treasury as authorized by the taxpayer.
Treasury General Account (TGA) means an account maintained in the name of the United States Treasury at an FRB.
Treasury General Account (TGA)
means an account maintained in the name of the United States Treasury at an FRB.
Treasury Investment Program (TIP) means the automated system under the TT&L program that receives tax collections, invests funds, and monitors collateral pledged to secure public money.
Treasury Investment Program (TIP)
means the automated system under the TT&L program that receives tax collections, invests funds, and monitors collateral pledged to secure public money.
TIP main account balance means an open-ended interest-bearing note maintained on the books of the Treasury Support Center (TSC) representing a retainer or investor depositary's current net amount of (i) Federal tax deposits retained by the depositary and/or (ii) Treasury investments made under the Direct investment program.
TIP main account balance
means an open-ended interest-bearing note maintained on the books of the Treasury Support Center (TSC) representing a retainer or investor depositary's current net amount of (i) Federal tax deposits retained by the depositary and/or (ii) Treasury investments made under the Direct investment program.
Treasury Support Center (TSC) means the office at the FRB that, as Treasury's Fiscal agent, monitors collateral pledged to secure Treasury funds, manages TT&L program participation for depositaries, and/or carries on its books depositaries' TIP main account balances, SDI account balances, and/or Term Investment Option (TIO) account balances.
Treasury Support Center (TSC)
means the office at the FRB that, as Treasury's Fiscal agent, monitors collateral pledged to secure Treasury funds, manages TT&L program participation for depositaries, and/or carries on its books depositaries' TIP main account balances, SDI account balances, and/or Term Investment Option (TIO) account balances.
Treasury Tax and Loan (TT&L) account means a record of transactions on the books of a TT&L depositary reflecting paper tax deposits received by the depositary.
Treasury Tax and Loan (TT&L) account
means a record of transactions on the books of a TT&L depositary reflecting paper tax deposits received by the depositary.
TT&L depositary or depositary means a financial institution designated as a depositary by Treasury or the FRB of St. Louis acting as Treasury's Fiscal agent, for the purpose of participating in the investment program and/or PATAX. There are three kinds of TT&L depositaries: investor depositaries, retainer depositaries, and collector depositaries.
TT&L depositary or depositary
means a financial institution designated as a depositary by Treasury or the FRB of St. Louis acting as Treasury's Fiscal agent, for the purpose of participating in the investment program and/or PATAX. There are three kinds of TT&L depositaries: investor depositaries, retainer depositaries, and collector depositaries.
TT&L program means the program for collecting Federal taxes and investing the Government's excess operating funds.
TT&L program
means the program for collecting Federal taxes and investing the Government's excess operating funds.
TT&L rate of interest means the interest charged on the TIP main account balance and the SDI account balance. The TT&L rate of interest is the rate prescribed by the Secretary taking into consideration prevailing market interest rates. The rate and any rate changes will be announced through a TT&L Special Notice to Depositaries and will be published in the Federal Register and on a Web site maintained by Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
TT&L rate of interest
means the interest charged on the TIP main account balance and the SDI account balance. The TT&L rate of interest is the rate prescribed by the Secretary taking into consideration prevailing market interest rates. The rate and any rate changes will be announced through a TT&L Special Notice to Depositaries and will be published in the
Federal Register
and on a Web site maintained by Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service at
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.

§ 203.3   TT&L depositaries.

A financial institution that participates in PATAX and/or the investment program must be a TT&L depositary. There are three kinds of TT&L depositaries. A collector depositary is a TT&L depositary that accepts paper Federal tax payments and also may accept electronic Federal tax payments, but does not accept direct investments or SDIs. A retainer depositary is a TT&L depositary that accepts electronic and/or paper Federal tax payments and retains a portion ofthe tax deposits in its TIP main account balance. An investor depositary is a TT&L depositary that accepts direct investments, SDIs, or dynamic investments and may accept electronic and/or paper Federal tax payments and retain a portion of those tax deposits. Collector, retainer, and investor depositaries may accept term investments. Retainer and investor depositaries do not have to participate in PATAX.

§ 203.4   Financial institution eligibility for designation as a TT&L depositary.

(a) To be designated as a TT&L depositary, a financial institution must be insured as a national banking association, state bank, savings bank, savings association, building and loan, homestead association, Federal home loan bank, credit union, trust company, or a U.S. branch of a foreign banking corporation, the establishment of which has been approved by the Comptroller of the Currency.
(b) A financial institution must possess the authority to pledge collateral to secure TT&L account balances, a TIP main account balance, an SDI account balance, or a no account balance as applicable.
(c) In order to be designated as a TT&L depositary for the purposes of processing Federal tax deposits through PATAX, a financial institution must possess under its charter either general or specific authority permitting the maintenance of the TT&L account, the balance of which is payable on demand without previous notice of intended withdrawal. In addition, investor depositaries and retainer depositaries must possess either general or specific authority permitting the maintenance of a TIP main account 27 balance or an SDI account balance. Investor, retainer, and collector depositaries that accept term investments must possess either general or specific authority permitting the maintenance of a TIO account balance. In the case of investor and retainer depositaries maintaining a TIP main account balance or an SDI account balance, the authority must perm it the maintenance of a TIP main account balance or an SDI account balance which is payable on demand without previous notice of intended withdrawal.

§ 203.5   Designation of financial institutions as TT&L depositaries.

(a) Parties to the agreement. To be designated as a TT&L depositary, a financial institution must enter into a depositary agreement with Treasury or Treasury's Fiscal agent. By entering into this agreement, the financial institution agrees to be bound by this part, and procedural instructions issued pursuant to this part. Treasury will not compensate depositaries for servicing and maintaining a TT&L account, or for processing tax payments through EFTPS or PATAX, unless otherwise provided for in procedural instructions.
Parties to the agreement.
To be designated as a TT&L depositary, a financial institution must enter into a depositary agreement with Treasury or Treasury's Fiscal agent. By entering into this agreement, the financial institution agrees to be bound by this part, and procedural instructions issued pursuant to this part. Treasury will not compensate depositaries for servicing and maintaining a TT&L account, or for processing tax payments through EFTPS or PATAX, unless otherwise provided for in procedural instructions.
(b) Application procedures. (1) An eligible financial institution seeking designation as a TT&L depositary must file the forms specified in the procedural instructions with the TSC. A TT&L depositary must elect to be one or more of the following:
Application procedures.
(1) An eligible financial institution seeking designation as a TT&L depositary must file the forms specified in the procedural instructions with the TSC. A TT&L depositary must elect to be one or more of the following:
(i) A collector depositary;
(ii) A retainer depositary;
(iii) An investor depositary.
(2) A financial institution is not authorized to maintain a TT&L account, TIP main account balance, SDI account balance, or TIO account balance until the TSC designates it as a TT&L depository.

§ 203.6   Obligations of TT&L depositaries.

A TT&L depositary must:
(a) Administer a TIP main account balance, SDI account balance, or TIO account balance, as applicable, if participating in the investment program.
(b) Administer a TT&L account, if participating in PATAX.
(c) Comply with the requirements of Section 202 of Executive Order 11246, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity” (3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339) as amended by Executive Orders 11375 and 12086 (3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230), and the regulations issued thereunder at 41 CFR chapter 60.
(d) Comply with the requirements of Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder at 41 CFR part 60-741, requiring Federal contractors to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities.
(e) Comply with the requirements of Section 503 of the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1972, as amended, 38 U.S.C. 4212, Executive Order 11701 (3 CFR 1971-1975 Comp., p. 752), and the regulations issued thereunder at 41 CFR parts 60-250 and 61-250, requiring Federal contractors to take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified special disabled veterans and Vietnam-era veterans.

§ 203.7   Termination of agreement or change of election or option.

(a) Termination by Treasury. The Secretary may terminate the agreement of a TT&L depositary at any time upon notice to that effect to that depositary, effective on the date set forth in the notice.
Termination by Treasury.
The Secretary may terminate the agreement of a TT&L depositary at any time upon notice to that effect to that depositary, effective on the date set forth in the notice.
(b) Termination or change of election or option by the depositary. A TT&L depositary may terminate its depositary agreement, or change its option or election, consistent with this part and the procedural instructions, by prior written notice to the TSC.
Termination or change of election or option by the depositary.
A TT&L depositary may terminate its depositary agreement, or change its option or election, consistent with this part and the procedural instructions, by prior written notice to the TSC.

§ 203.8   Application of part and procedural instructions.

The terms of this part and the procedural instructions issued pursuant to this part will be binding on financial institutions that process Federal tax payments or maintain a TT&L account, TIP main account balance, SDI account balance, or a TIO account balance under this part. By accepting or originating Federal tax payments, the financial institution agrees to be bound by this part and by procedural instructions issued pursuant to this part.

Subpart B—Electronic Federal Tax Payments


§ 203.9   Scope of the subpart.

This subpart prescribes the rules that financial institutions must follow when they process electronic Federal tax payment transactions. A financial institution is not required to be designated as a TT&L depositary in order to process electronic Federal tax payments. In addition, a financial institution does not become a TT&L depositary by processing electronic Federal tax payments under this subpart and may not represent itself as a TT&L depositary because it does so.

§ 203.10   Electronic payment methods.

(a) General. Electronic payment methods for Federal tax payments available under this subpart include ACH debit entries, ACH credit entries, and same-day payments.
General.
Electronic payment methods for Federal tax payments available under this subpart include ACH debit entries, ACH credit entries, and same-day payments.
(b) Conditions to making an electronic payment. This part does not affect the authority of financial institutions to enter into contracts with their customers regarding the terms and conditions for processing payments, as long as the terms and conditions of those contracts are not inconsistent with this part and with any laws that apply to the particular transactions.
Conditions to making an electronic payment.
This part does not affect the authority of financial institutions to enter into contracts with their customers regarding the terms and conditions for processing payments, as long as the terms and conditions of those contracts are not inconsistent with this part and with any laws that apply to the particular transactions.
(c) Payment of interest for time value of funds held. Treasury will not pay interest on any payment that a financial institution erroneously originates and that subsequently is refunded.
Payment of interest for time value of funds held.
Treasury will not pay interest on any payment that a financial institution erroneously originates and that subsequently is refunded.

§ 203.11   Same-day reporting and payment mechanisms.

(a) General. A financial institution or its authorized correspondent may initiate same-day reporting and payment transactions on behalf of taxpayers. A same-day payment must be received by the FRB by the deadline established by Treasury in the procedural instructions.
General.
A financial institution or its authorized correspondent may initiate same-day reporting and payment transactions on behalf of taxpayers. A same-day payment must be received by the FRB by the deadline established by Treasury in the procedural instructions.
(b) Fedwire ® non-value transaction. By initiating a Fedwire ® non-value transaction, a financial institution authorizes the TSC to debit its reserve account for the amount of the Federal tax payment specified in the transaction.
Fedwire
®
non-value transaction.
By initiating a Fedwire ® non-value transaction, a financial institution authorizes the TSC to debit its reserve account for the amount of the Federal tax payment specified in the transaction.
(1) For an investor or retainer depositary using a Fedwire ® non-value transaction, the TSC will credit the Federal tax payment amount, up to the depositary's available TIP main account balance capacity, to the depositary's TIP main account balance on the day of the transaction. Throughout the course of the day, the TSC will debit from the depositary's reserve account, and credit to the TGA, any portion of a tax payment amount that would exceed the institution's available TIP main account balance capacity.
(2) For a collector depositary or a non-TT&L depositary financial institution using a Fedwire ® non-value transaction, the TSC will debit the financial institution's reserve account for the Federal tax payment amount and credit that amount to the TGA on the day of the transaction.
(c) Cancellations and reversals. In addition to cancellations due to insufficient funds in the financial institution's reserve account, the FRB may reverse a same-day transaction:
Cancellations and reversals.
In addition to cancellations due to insufficient funds in the financial institution's reserve account, the FRB may reverse a same-day transaction:
(1) If the transaction:
(i) Is originated by a financial institution after the deadline established by Treasury in the procedural instructions;
(ii) Has an unenrolled taxpayer identification number; or
(iii) Does not meet the edit and format requirements set forth in the procedural instructions; or
(2) At the direction of the IRS, for the following reasons:
(i) Incorrect taxpayer name;
(ii) Overpayment; or
(iii) Unidentified payment; or
(3) At the request of the financial institution that sent the same-day transaction, if the request is made prior to the payment day deadline established by Treasury in the procedural instructions.
(d) Other than as stated in paragraph (c) of this section, Treasury is not obligated to reverse all or any part of a payment.

§ 203.12   EFTPS interest assessments.

(a) Circumstances subject to interest assessments. Treasury may assess interest on a financial institution in instances where a taxpayer that failed to meet a tax due date proves to the IRS that the delivery of Federal tax payment instructions to the financial institution was timely and that the taxpayer satisfied the conditions imposed by the financial institution pursuant to § 203.10(b). Treasury also may assess interest where a financial institution fails to respond to an ACH prenotification entry on an ACH debit as required under part 210 of this title, or fails to originate an ACH prenotification or zero dollar entry on an ACH credit at a taxpayer's request, which then results in a late payment.
Circumstances subject to interest assessments.
Treasury may assess interest on a financial institution in instances where a taxpayer that failed to meet a tax due date proves to the IRS that the delivery of Federal tax payment instructions to the financial institution was timely and that the taxpayer satisfied the conditions imposed by the financial institution pursuant to § 203.10(b). Treasury also may assess interest where a financial institution fails to respond to an ACH prenotification entry on an ACH debit as required under part 210 of this title, or fails to originate an ACH prenotification or zero dollar entry on an ACH credit at a taxpayer's request, which then results in a late payment.
(b) Calculation of interest assessment. Any interest assessed under this section will be at the TT&L rate of interest. Treasury will assess the interest from the day the taxpayer specified that its payment should settle to the Treasury until the day Treasury receives the payment, subject to the following limitations: for ACH debit transactions, interest will be limited to no more than seven calendar days; For ACH credit and same-day transactions, interest will be limited to no more than 45 calendar days. The limitation of liability in this paragraph does not apply to any interest assessment in which there is an indication of fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation or embezzlement on the part of the financial institution or any employee or agent of the financial institution.
Calculation of interest assessment.
Any interest assessed under this section will be at the TT&L rate of interest. Treasury will assess the interest from the day the taxpayer specified that its payment should settle to the Treasury until the day Treasury receives the payment, subject to the following limitations: for ACH debit transactions, interest will be limited to no more than seven calendar days; For ACH credit and same-day transactions, interest will be limited to no more than 45 calendar days. The limitation of liability in this paragraph does not apply to any interest assessment in which there is an indication of fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation or embezzlement on the part of the financial institution or any employee or agent of the financial institution.
(c) Authorization to assess interest. A financial institution that processes Federal tax payments made electronically under this subpart is deemed to authorize the TSC to debit its reserve account for any interest assessed under this section. Upon the direction of Treasury, the TSC will debit the financial institution's reserve account for the amount of the assessed interest.
Authorization to assess interest.
A financial institution that processes Federal tax payments made electronically under this subpart is deemed to authorize the TSC to debit its reserve account for any interest assessed under this section. Upon the direction of Treasury, the TSC will debit the financial institution's reserve account for the amount of the assessed interest.
(d) Circumstances not resulting in the assessment of interest. (1) Treasury will not assess interest on a taxpayer's financial institution if a taxpayer fails to meet a tax due date because the taxpayer has not satisfied conditions imposed by the financial institution pursuant to § 203.10(b) and the financial institution has not contributed to the delay. The burden is on the financial institution to establish, pursuant to the procedures in § 203.13, that the taxpayer has not satisfied the conditions and that the financial institution has not caused or contributed to the delay.
Circumstances not resulting in the assessment of interest.
(1) Treasury will not assess interest on a taxpayer's financial institution if a taxpayer fails to meet a tax due date because the taxpayer has not satisfied conditions imposed by the financial institution pursuant to § 203.10(b) and the financial institution has not contributed to the delay. The burden is on the financial institution to establish, pursuant to the procedures in § 203.13, that the taxpayer has not satisfied the conditions and that the financial institution has not caused or contributed to the delay.
(2) Treasury will not assess interest on a financial institution if a taxpayer fails to meet a tax due date because the FRB or the TFA caused a delay and the financial institution did not contribute to the delay. The burden is on the financial institution to establish, pursuant to the procedures in § 203.13, that it did not cause or contribute to the delay.

§ 203.13   Appeal and dispute resolution.

(a) Contest. A financial institution may contest any interest assessed under § 203.12 or any late fees assessed under § 203.17. To do so, the financial institution must submit information supporting its position and the relief sought. The information must be received, in writing, by the Treasury officer or Fiscal agent identified in the procedural instructions, no later than 90 calendar days after the date the TSC debits the Federal reserve account of the financial institution under § 203.12 or § 203.17. The Treasury officer or Fiscal agent will make a decision to: Uphold, reverse, or modify the assessment, or mandate other action.
Contest.
A financial institution may contest any interest assessed under § 203.12 or any late fees assessed under § 203.17. To do so, the financial institution must submit information supporting its position and the relief sought. The information must be received, in writing, by the Treasury officer or Fiscal agent identified in the procedural instructions, no later than 90 calendar days after the date the TSC debits the Federal reserve account of the financial institution under § 203.12 or § 203.17. The Treasury officer or Fiscal agent will make a decision to: Uphold, reverse, or modify the assessment, or mandate other action.
(b) Appeal. The financial institution may appeal the decision referenced in subsection (a) to Treasury as set forth in the procedural instructions. No further administrative review of Treasury's decision is available under this part.
Appeal.
The financial institution may appeal the decision referenced in subsection (a) to Treasury as set forth in the procedural instructions. No further administrative review of Treasury's decision is available under this part.
(c) Recoveries. In the event of an over or under recovery of interest, principal, or late fees, Treasury will instruct the TSC to credit or debit the financial institution's reserve account.
Recoveries.
In the event of an over or under recovery of interest, principal, or late fees, Treasury will instruct the TSC to credit or debit the financial institution's reserve account.

Subpart C—PATAX


§ 203.14   Scope of the subpart.

This subpart applies to all TT&L depositaries that accept FTD coupons and governs the acceptance and processing of those coupons.

§ 203.15   Tax deposits using FTD coupons.

A TT&L depositary processing FTD coupons may choose to be designated as a retainer depositary, an investor depositary, or a collector depositary. A TT&L depositary that accepts FTD coupons through any of its offices that accept demand and/or savings deposits must:
(a) Accept from a taxpayer that presents an FTD coupon: cash, a postal money order drawn to the order of the depositary, or a check or draft drawn on and to the order of the depositary, covering an amount to be deposited as Federal taxes. A TT&L depositary may accept, at its discretion, a check drawn on another financial institution, but it does so at its option and absorbs for its own account any float and other costs involved.
(b) Place a stamp impression on the face of each FTD coupon in the space provided. The stamp must reflect the date on which the TT&L depositary received the tax deposit and the name and location of the depositary. The IRS will determine whether the tax payment is on time by referring to the date stamped on the FTD coupon.
(c) Forward, each day, to the IRS Service Center serving the geographical area in which the TT&L depositary is located, the FTD coupons for all FTD deposits received that day and a copy of the AOC reflecting the total amount of all FTD coupons.
(d) Establish an adequate record of all FTD deposits prior to transmitting them to 36 the IRS Service Center so that the TT&L depositary will be able to identify deposits in the event the FTD coupons are lost in shipment. To be adequate, the record must show, at a minimum for each deposit, the date of the deposit, the taxpayer identification number, the amount of the deposit, the tax period ending date, the type of tax deposited, and the employer name. Alternatively, the TT&L depositary may retain a copy of each FTD coupon forwarded to the IRS Service Center.
(e) On the business day following receipt of an FTD coupon, submit the AOC information electronically to the TSC.
(f) Not accept compensation from taxpayers for accepting FTDs and handling them as required by this section.

§ 203.16   Retainer and investor depositaries.

(a) Credit to TIP main account balance. On the business day that the TSC receives an AOC from a retainer or investor depositary, the TSC will credit the depositary's TIP main account balance for the amount reported on the AOC unless there isn't sufficient capacity. In that case, any amount in excess of the capacity will be debited to the reserve account and credited to the TGA.
Credit to TIP main account balance.
On the business day that the TSC receives an AOC from a retainer or investor depositary, the TSC will credit the depositary's TIP main account balance for the amount reported on the AOC unless there isn't sufficient capacity. In that case, any amount in excess of the capacity will be debited to the reserve account and credited to the TGA.
(b) Late delivery of AOC. If an AOC does not arrive at the TSC before the designated cutoff time for receipt, the TSC will credit the amount of funds to the depositary's TIP main account balance as of the date of receipt of the AOC. However, the date on which funds will begin to earn interest for Treasury is the next business day after the AOC date.
Late delivery of AOC.
If an AOC does not arrive at the TSC before the designated cutoff time for receipt, the TSC will credit the amount of funds to the depositary's TIP main account balance as of the date of receipt of the AOC. However, the date on which funds will begin to earn interest for Treasury is the next business day after the AOC date.

§ 203.17   Collector depositaries.

(a) Debit to reserve account. On the business day that the TSC receives an AOC from a collector depositary, the TSC will debit the depositary's reserve account for the amount reported on the AOC and credit that amount to Treasury's account.
Debit to reserve account.
On the business day that the TSC receives an AOC from a collector depositary, the TSC will debit the depositary's reserve account for the amount reported on the AOC and credit that amount to Treasury's account.
(b) Late delivery of AOC. If an AOC does not arrive at the TSC before the designated cutoff time on the first business day after the AOC date, an FTD late fee in the form of interest at the TT&L rate of interest will.be assessed for each day's delay in receipt of the AOC. Upon the direction of Treasury, the TSC will debit the depositary's reserve account for the amount of the late fee.
Late delivery of AOC.
If an AOC does not arrive at the TSC before the designated cutoff time on the first business day after the AOC date, an FTD late fee in the form of interest at the TT&L rate of interest will.be assessed for each day's delay in receipt of the AOC. Upon the direction of Treasury, the TSC will debit the depositary's reserve account for the amount of the late fee.

Subpart D—Investment Program and Collateral Security Requirements for TT&L Depositaries


§ 203.18   Scope of the subpart.

This subpart governs the operation of the investment program, including the rules that TT&L depositaries must follow in crediting and debiting TIP main account balances, SDI account balances, and TIO account balances, and pledging collateral security.

§ 203.19   Sources of balances.

A financial institution must be a collector depositary that accepts term investments, an investor depositary, or a retainer depositary to participate in the investment program. Depositaries electing to participate in the investment program can receive Treasury's investments in obligations of the depositary from the following sources:
(a) FTDs that have been credited to the depositary's TIP main account balance pursuant to subpart C of this part;
(b) EFTPS ACH credit and debit transactions, Fedwire ® non-value transactions, and Fedwire ® value transfers pursuant to subpart B of this part;
(c) Direct investments, SDIs, dynamic investments, and term investments pursuant to subpart D of this part; and
(d) Other excess Treasury operating funds.

§ 203.20   Investment account requirements.

(a) Additions. Treasury will invest funds in obligations of collector depositaries that accept term investments, investor depositaries, or retainer depositaries. Such obligations will be in the form of open-ended interest-bearing notes, or in the case of term investments, interest-bearing notes maintained for a predetermined period of time, and additions and reductions will be reflected on the books of the TSC.
Additions.
Treasury will invest funds in obligations of collector depositaries that accept term investments, investor depositaries, or retainer depositaries. Such obligations will be in the form of open-ended interest-bearing notes, or in the case of term investments, interest-bearing notes maintained for a predetermined period of time, and additions and reductions will be reflected on the books of the TSC.
(1) PATAX. The TSC will credit the TIP main account balance as stated in § 203.16(a) for an investor or retainer depositary processing tax deposits through PATAX.
PATAX.
The TSC will credit the TIP main account balance as stated in § 203.16(a) for an investor or retainer depositary processing tax deposits through PATAX.
(2) EFTPS—(i) ACH debit and ACH credit. The TSC will credit a depositary's TIP main account balance, and credit the depositary's reserve account if capacity exists, for the amount of EFTPS ACH debit and credit entries on the day such entries settle.
EFTPS
—(i)
ACH debit and ACH credit.
The TSC will credit a depositary's TIP main account balance, and credit the depositary's reserve account if capacity exists, for the amount of EFTPS ACH debit and credit entries on the day such entries settle.
(ii) Fedwire ® value and non-value transactions. The TSC will credit a depositary's TIP main account balance if capacity exists, throughout the day on the day of settlement, for the amount of Fedwire ® value and non-value transactions. In the case of Fedwire ® value transactions, the depositary's reserve account will also be credited.
Fedwire
®
value and non-value transactions.
The TSC will credit a depositary's TIP main account balance if capacity exists, throughout the day on the day of settlement, for the amount of Fedwire ® value and non-value transactions. In the case of Fedwire ® value transactions, the depositary's reserve account will also be credited.
(b) Additional offerings. Other funds from Treasury may be offered from time to time to depositaries participating in the investment program through direct investments, SDIs, term investments, or other investment programs.
Additional offerings.
Other funds from Treasury may be offered from time to time to depositaries participating in the investment program through direct investments, SDIs, term investments, or other investment programs.
(c) Withdrawals. The amount of a TIP main account balance or SDI account balance is payable on demand without prior notice. The TSC will make calls for payment at the direction of the Secretary. On behalf of Treasury, the TSC will debit the depositary's reserve account on the day specified in the call for payment.
Withdrawals.
The amount of a TIP main account balance or SDI account balance is payable on demand without prior notice. The TSC will make calls for payment at the direction of the Secretary. On behalf of Treasury, the TSC will debit the depositary's reserve account on the day specified in the call for payment.
(d) Interest. The TIP main account balance and the SDI account balance bear interest at the TT&L rate of interest. Such interest is payable by a charge to the depositary's reserve account in the manner prescribed in the procedural instructions.
Interest.
The TIP main account balance and the SDI account balance bear interest at the TT&L rate of interest. Such interest is payable by a charge to the depositary's reserve account in the manner prescribed in the procedural instructions.
(e) Balance limits—(1) Retainer and investor depositaries. A retainer or investor depositary must establish an initial balance limit for its TIP main account balance by providing notice to that effect in writing to the TSC. The balance limit is the amount of funds for which a retainer or investor depositary is willing to provide collateral in accordance with § 203.21(c)(1). The depositary must follow the procedural instructions before reducing the established balance limit unless the reduction results from a collateral revaluation as determined by the FRB. That portion of any PATAX or EFTPS tax payment which, when posted at the FRB, would cause the TIP main account balance to exceed the balance limit specified by the depositary, will be withdrawn by the FRB that day.
Balance limits
—(1)
Retainer and investor depositaries.
A retainer or investor depositary must establish an initial balance limit for its TIP main account balance by providing notice to that effect in writing to the TSC. The balance limit is the amount of funds for which a retainer or investor depositary is willing to provide collateral in accordance with § 203.21(c)(1). The depositary must follow the procedural instructions before reducing the established balance limit unless the reduction results from a collateral revaluation as determined by the FRB. That portion of any PATAX or EFTPS tax payment which, when posted at the FRB, would cause the TIP main account balance to exceed the balance limit specified by the depositary, will be withdrawn by the FRB that day.
(2) Direct investments. An investor depositary that participates in direct investments must set a balance limit for direct investment purposes which is higher than the peak balance normally generated by the depositary's PATAX and EFTPS tax payment inflow. The depositary must follow the procedural instructions before reducing the established balance limit.
Direct investments.
An investor depositary that participates in direct investments must set a balance limit for direct investment purposes which is higher than the peak balance normally generated by the depositary's PATAX and EFTPS tax payment inflow. The depositary must follow the procedural instructions before reducing the established balance limit.
(3) SDIs. SDIs are credited to the SDI account balance and are not considered in setting the amount of the TIP main account balance limit or in determining the amounts to be withdrawn where a depositary exceeds its TIP main account balance limit.
SDIs.
SDIs are credited to the SDI account balance and are not considered in setting the amount of the TIP main account balance limit or in determining the amounts to be withdrawn where a depositary exceeds its TIP main account balance limit.
(f) TIO. Treasury may, from time to time, invest excess operating funds in obligations of depositaries awarded funds under TIO. Such obligations will be in the form of interest-bearing notes payable upon a predetermined period of time not to exceed 90 days. Such notes will bear interest at a rate prescribed by the Secretary by auction or otherwise taking into consideration prevailing market interest rates.
TIO.
Treasury may, from time to time, invest excess operating funds in obligations of depositaries awarded funds under TIO. Such obligations will be in the form of interest-bearing notes payable upon a predetermined period of time not to exceed 90 days. Such notes will bear interest at a rate prescribed by the Secretary by auction or otherwise taking into consideration prevailing market interest rates.

§ 203.21   Collateral security requirements.

Financial institutions that process EFTPS tax payments, but that are not TT&L depositaries, have no collateral requirements under this part. Financial institutions that are TT&L depositaries have collateral security requirements, as follows:
(a) Investor and retainer depositaries—(1) PATAX and EFTPS tax payments. Investor and retainer depositaries must pledge collateral security in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(l), (d), and (e) of this section in an amount that is sufficient to cover the TIP main account balance and the balance in the TT&L account that exceeds the recognized insurance coverage.
Investor and retainer depositaries
—(1)
PATAX and EFTPS tax payments.
Investor and retainer depositaries must pledge collateral security in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(l), (d), and (e) of this section in an amount that is sufficient to cover the TIP main account balance and the balance in the TT&L account that exceeds the recognized insurance coverage.
(2) Direct investments. An investor depositary is required to pledge collateral in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section no later than the day before a direct investment is placed. However, each investor depositary participating in same-day direct investments must pledge, prior to the announcement, collateral up to its balance limit to obtain the depositary's maximum portion of the same-day direct investment.
Direct investments.
An investor depositary is required to pledge collateral in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section no later than the day before a direct investment is placed. However, each investor depositary participating in same-day direct investments must pledge, prior to the announcement, collateral up to its balance limit to obtain the depositary's maximum portion of the same-day direct investment.
(3) SDIs. The day before SDIs are credited to an investor depositary's SDI account balance, the depositary must pledge collateral security, in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2), (d), and (e) of this section, to cover the total of the SDIs to be received.
SDIs.
The day before SDIs are credited to an investor depositary's SDI account balance, the depositary must pledge collateral security, in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2), (d), and (e) of this section, to cover the total of the SDIs to be received.
(4) TIO. Each depositary participating in the term investment program must pledge, prior to the time the term investment is placed, collateral in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2) for certain term investments as determined by Treasury, (d), and (e) of this section sufficient to cover the total TIO account balance.
TIO.
Each depositary participating in the term investment program must pledge, prior to the time the term investment is placed, collateral in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2) for certain term investments as determined by Treasury, (d), and (e) of this section sufficient to cover the total TIO account balance.
(b) Collector depositaries. Prior to crediting FTD deposits to the TT&L account, a collector depositary must pledge collateral security, in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1), (d), and (e) of this section, in an amount which is sufficient to cover the balance in the TT&L account that exceeds the recognized insurance coverage.
Collector depositaries.
Prior to crediting FTD deposits to the TT&L account, a collector depositary must pledge collateral security, in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1), (d), and (e) of this section, in an amount which is sufficient to cover the balance in the TT&L account that exceeds the recognized insurance coverage.
(c) Deposits of securities. (1) Collateral security required under paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (4) (except as provided in subparagraph (2) below), and (b) of this section must be deposited with the depositary's FRB, or with a custodian or custodians within the United States designated by the TSC or FRB, under terms and conditions prescribed by the TSC or FRB.
Deposits of securities.
(1) Collateral security required under paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (4) (except as provided in subparagraph (2) below), and (b) of this section must be deposited with the depositary's FRB, or with a custodian or custodians within the United States designated by the TSC or FRB, under terms and conditions prescribed by the TSC or FRB.
(2) A depositary pledging collateral security as required under paragraph (a)(3) or paragraph (a)(4) (when permitted) of this section must pledge the collateral under a written security agreement on a form provided by the FRB. The collateral security pledged to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) (when permitted) of this section may remain in the pledging depositary's possession provided that the pledging is evidenced by advices of custody incorporated by reference in the written security agreement. The depositary must provide the written security agreement and all advices of custody covering collateral security pledged under that agreement to the FRB. Collateral security pledged under the agreement may not be substituted for or released without the advance approval of the FRB, and any collateral security subject to the security agreement will remain so subject until an approved substitution is made. No substitution or release will be approved until an advice of custody containing the description required by the written security agreement is received by the FRB.
(3) Treasury's security interest in collateral security pledged by a depositary in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2) of this section to secure SDIs and certain term investments is perfected without Treasury taking possession of the collateral security by filing or, absent filing, for a period not to exceed 20 calendar days from the day of the depositary's receipt of the special direct or term investment.
(d) Acceptable collateral. The types of securities that may be used as collateral, and how those securities are valued, are set forth in 31 CFR part 380.
Acceptable collateral.
The types of securities that may be used as collateral, and how those securities are valued, are set forth in 31 CFR part 380.
(e) Assignment of securities. By pledging acceptable securities which are not negotiable without the depositary's endorsement or assignment, a TT&L depositary, in lieu of placing its unqualified endorsement on each security, appoints the FRB or its assigns as the depositary's attorney-in-fact with full irrevocable power and authority to endorse, assign or transfer the securities, and represents and warrants that an appropriate resolution authorizing the granting of such irrevocable power of attorney has been executed and adopted. The powers of attorney so granted are coupled with an interest and are irrevocable, and full power of substitution is granted to the assignee or holder.
Assignment of securities.
By pledging acceptable securities which are not negotiable without the depositary's endorsement or assignment, a TT&L depositary, in lieu of placing its unqualified endorsement on each security, appoints the FRB or its assigns as the depositary's attorney-in-fact with full irrevocable power and authority to endorse, assign or transfer the securities, and represents and warrants that an appropriate resolution authorizing the granting of such irrevocable power of attorney has been executed and adopted. The powers of attorney so granted are coupled with an interest and are irrevocable, and full power of substitution is granted to the assignee or holder.
(f) Effecting payments of principal and interest on securities or instruments pledged as collateral—(1) General. Treasury, without notice or demand, may sell or otherwise collect the proceeds of all or part of the collateral, including additions, substitutions, interest, and distribution of principal, and apply the proceeds to satisfy any claims of the United States against the depositary, if any of the following events occur:
Effecting payments of principal and interest on securities or instruments pledged as collateral
—(1)
General.
Treasury, without notice or demand, may sell or otherwise collect the proceeds of all or part of the collateral, including additions, substitutions, interest, and distribution of principal, and apply the proceeds to satisfy any claims of the United States against the depositary, if any of the following events occur:
(i) The depositary fails to pay, when due, the whole or any part of the funds received by it for credit to the TT&L account and, if applicable, its TIP main account balance, SDI account balance, or TIO account balance;
(ii) The depositary fails to pay when due amounts owed to the United States or the United States Treasury;
(iii) The depositary otherwise violates or fails to perform any of the terms of this part or any of the procedural instructions entered into hereunder; or
(iv) The depositary is closed for business by regulatory action or by proper corporate action, or a receiver, conservator, liquidator, or any other officer is appointed for the depositary. All principal and interest payments on any security pledged to protect the TIP main account balance, the SDI account balance, the TIO account balance or the TT&L account, as applicable, due as of the date of the insolvency or closure or thereafter becoming due, will be held separate and apart from any other assets and will constitute a part of the pledged security available to satisfy any claim of the United States.
(2) Payment procedures. (i) Subject to the waiver in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, each depositary (including, with respect to such depositary, an assignee for the benefit of creditors, a trustee in bankruptcy, or a receiver in equity) will, as soon as possible, remit to the FRB, as Fiscal agent, each payment of principal and/or interest received by it with respect to collateral pledged pursuant to this section. The remittance will be made no later than 10 days after receipt of such a payment.
Payment procedures.
(i) Subject to the waiver in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, each depositary (including, with respect to such depositary, an assignee for the benefit of creditors, a trustee in bankruptcy, or a receiver in equity) will, as soon as possible, remit to the FRB, as Fiscal agent, each payment of principal and/or interest received by it with respect to collateral pledged pursuant to this section. The remittance will be made no later than 10 days after receipt of such a payment.
(ii) Subject to the waiver in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, each obligor on a security pledged by a depositary pursuant to this section, upon notification that Treasury is entitled to any payment associated with that pledged security, must make each payment of principal and/or interest due with respect to such security directly to the FRB, as Fiscal agent of the United States.
(iii) The requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are hereby waived for only so long as a pledging depositary avoids both termination from the program under § 203.7 and also those circumstances identified in paragraph (f)(1) which may lead to the collection of the proceeds of collateral or the waiver is otherwise terminated by Treasury.

PART 204 [RESERVED]


PART 205—RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR EFFICIENT FEDERAL-STATE FUNDS TRANSFERS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3332, 3335, 6501, 6503.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3332, 3335, 6501, 6503.
[Source:67 FR 31885, May 10, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
67 FR 31885, May 10, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

§ 205.1   What Federal assistance programs are covered by this part?

(a) This part prescribes rules for transferring funds between the Federal government and States for Federal assistance programs. This part applies to:
(1) All States as defined in § 205.2; and
(2) All Federal program agencies, except the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) and its Federal assistance programs.
(b) Only programs listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, as established by Chapter 61 of Title 31, United States Code (U.S.C) are covered by this part.
(c) This part does not apply to:
(1) Payments made to States acting as vendors on Federal contracts, which are subject to the Prompt Payment Act of 1982, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3901 et seq., 5 CFR part 1315, and 48 CFR part 32; or
et seq.,
5 CFR part 1315, and 48 CFR part 32; or
(2) Direct loans from the Federal government to States.

§ 205.2   What definitions apply to this part?

For purposes of this part:
Administrative costs means expenses incurred by a State associated with managing a Federal assistance program. This term includes indirect costs.
Administrative costs
means expenses incurred by a State associated with managing a Federal assistance program. This term includes indirect costs.
Auditable means records must be retained to allow for calculations outlined in the Treasury-State agreements to be reviewed and replicated for compliance purposes. States must maintain these records to be readily available, fully documented, and verifiable.
Auditable
means records must be retained to allow for calculations outlined in the Treasury-State agreements to be reviewed and replicated for compliance purposes. States must maintain these records to be readily available, fully documented, and verifiable.
Authorized State official means a person with the authority under the laws of a State to make commitments on behalf of the State for the purposes of this part, or that person's official designee as certified in writing.
Authorized State official
means a person with the authority under the laws of a State to make commitments on behalf of the State for the purposes of this part, or that person's official designee as certified in writing.
Business day means a day when Federal Reserve Banks are open.
Business day
means a day when Federal Reserve Banks are open.
Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) means the government-wide list of Federal assistance programs, projects, services, and activities which provide assistance or benefits to the American public. The listing includes financial and non-financial Federal assistance programs administered by agencies of the Federal government.
Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA)
means the government-wide list of Federal assistance programs, projects, services, and activities which provide assistance or benefits to the American public. The listing includes financial and non-financial Federal assistance programs administered by agencies of the Federal government.
Clearance pattern means a projection showing the daily amount subtracted from a State's bank account each day after the State makes a disbursement. For example, a State mailing out benefit checks may project that the percentage of checks cashed each day will be 0% for the first day, 10% for the second day, 80% on the third day, and 10% on the fourth day following issuance. Clearance patterns are used to schedule the transfer of funds with various funding techniques and to support interest calculations.
Clearance pattern
means a projection showing the daily amount subtracted from a State's bank account each day after the State makes a disbursement. For example, a State mailing out benefit checks may project that the percentage of checks cashed each day will be 0% for the first day, 10% for the second day, 80% on the third day, and 10% on the fourth day following issuance. Clearance patterns are used to schedule the transfer of funds with various funding techniques and to support interest calculations.
Compensating balance means funds maintained in State bank accounts and/or State Treasurer bank accounts to offset the costs of bank services.
Compensating balance
means funds maintained in State bank accounts and/or State Treasurer bank accounts to offset the costs of bank services.
Current project cost means a cost for which the State has recorded a liability on or after the day that the State last requested funds for the project.
Current project cost
means a cost for which the State has recorded a liability on or after the day that the State last requested funds for the project.
Day means a calendar day unless otherwise specified.
Day
means a calendar day unless otherwise specified.
Default procedures means efficient cash management practices that we prescribe for Federal funds transfers to a State if a Treasury-State agreement is not in place.
Default procedures
means efficient cash management practices that we prescribe for Federal funds transfers to a State if a Treasury-State agreement is not in place.
Disburse means to issue a check or initiate an electronic funds transfer payment, or to provide access to benefits through an electronic benefits transfer.
Disburse
means to issue a check or initiate an electronic funds transfer payment, or to provide access to benefits through an electronic benefits transfer.
Discretionary grant project means a project for which a Federal Program Agency is authorized by law to exercise judgment in awarding a grant and in selecting a grantee, generally through a competitive process.
Discretionary grant project
means a project for which a Federal Program Agency is authorized by law to exercise judgment in awarding a grant and in selecting a grantee, generally through a competitive process.
Dollar-weighted average day of clearance means the day when, on a cumulative basis, 50 percent of funds have been paid out. To calculate the dollar-weighted average day of clearance for a clearance pattern:
Dollar-weighted average day of clearance
means the day when, on a cumulative basis, 50 percent of funds have been paid out. To calculate the dollar-weighted average day of clearance for a clearance pattern:
(1) For each day, multiply the percentage of dollars paid out that day by the number of days that have elapsed since the payments were issued. For example, on the first day payments were issued, multiply the percentage of dollars paid out on that day by zero, since zero days have elapsed. On the day after payments were issued, multiply the percentage of dollars paid out on that day by one, since one day has elapsed; and so forth.
(2) Total the results from paragraph (1) of this definition. Round to the nearest whole number. This is the dollar-weighted average day of clearance.
Draw down (verb) means a process in which a State requests and receives Federal funds.
Draw down
(verb) means a process in which a State requests and receives Federal funds.
Drawdown (noun) means Federal funds requested and received by a State.
Drawdown
(noun) means Federal funds requested and received by a State.
Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by cash, check, or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an account.
Electronic Funds Transfer
(EFT) means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by cash, check, or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an account.
Estimate means a projection of the needs of a Federal Assistance Program.
Estimate
means a projection of the needs of a Federal Assistance Program.
Federal assistance program means a program included in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance where funds are transferred from the Federal government to a State. Federal assistance programs include cooperative agreements, but do not include vendor payments or direct loans.
Federal assistance program
means a program included in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance where funds are transferred from the Federal government to a State. Federal assistance programs include cooperative agreements, but do not include vendor payments or direct loans.
Federal Program Agency means an executive agency as defined by 31 U.S.C. 102, except the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), that issues and administers Federal assistance programs to States or cooperative agreements with States.
Federal Program Agency
means an executive agency as defined by 31 U.S.C. 102, except the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), that issues and administers Federal assistance programs to States or cooperative agreements with States.
Federal-State agreement means an agreement between a State and a Federal Program Agency specifying terms and conditions for carrying out a Federal assistance program or group of programs. This is different than a Treasury-State agreement.
Federal-State agreement
means an agreement between a State and a Federal Program Agency specifying terms and conditions for carrying out a Federal assistance program or group of programs. This is different than a Treasury-State agreement.
Bureau of the Fiscal Service (we or us) means the Bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury responsible for implementation of this part.
Bureau of the Fiscal Service (we or us)
means the Bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury responsible for implementation of this part.
Fiscal year means the twelve-month period that a State designates as its budget year.
Fiscal year
means the twelve-month period that a State designates as its budget year.
Grant means, for purposes of this part, a funds transfer by the Federal government associated with a Federal assistance program listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance.
Grant
means, for purposes of this part, a funds transfer by the Federal government associated with a Federal assistance program listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance.
Indirect cost rate means a formula that identifies the amount of indirect costs based on the amount of accrued direct costs. The applicable indirect cost rate shall be described in the Treasury-State agreement.
Indirect cost rate
means a formula that identifies the amount of indirect costs based on the amount of accrued direct costs. The applicable indirect cost rate shall be described in the Treasury-State agreement.
Indirect costs means costs a State incurs that are necessary to the operation and performance of its Federal assistance programs, but that are not readily identifiable with a particular project or Federal assistance program.
Indirect costs
means costs a State incurs that are necessary to the operation and performance of its Federal assistance programs, but that are not readily identifiable with a particular project or Federal assistance program.
Interest calculation costs means those costs a State incurs in performing the actual calculation of interest liabilities, including those costs a State incurs in developing and maintaining clearance patterns in support of interest calculations.
Interest calculation costs
means those costs a State incurs in performing the actual calculation of interest liabilities, including those costs a State incurs in developing and maintaining clearance patterns in support of interest calculations.
Maintenance-of-effort means a requirement that a State spend at least a specified amount of State funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
Maintenance-of-effort
means a requirement that a State spend at least a specified amount of State funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
Major Federal assistance program means a Federal assistance program which receives Federal funding in excess of the dollar thresholds found in Table A to § 205.5.
Major Federal assistance program
means a Federal assistance program which receives Federal funding in excess of the dollar thresholds found in Table A to § 205.5.
Obligational authority means the existence of a definite commitment on the part of the Federal government to provide appropriated funds to a State to carry out specified programs, whether the commitment is executed before or after a State pays out funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
Obligational authority
means the existence of a definite commitment on the part of the Federal government to provide appropriated funds to a State to carry out specified programs, whether the commitment is executed before or after a State pays out funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
Pay out means to debit the State's bank account.
Pay out
means to debit the State's bank account.
Pay out funds for Federal Assistance Program Purposes means, in the context of State payments, to debit a State account for the purpose of making a payment to:
Pay out funds for Federal Assistance Program Purposes
means, in the context of State payments, to debit a State account for the purpose of making a payment to:
(1) A person or entity that is not considered part of the State pursuant to the definition of “State” in this section; or
(2) A State entity that provides goods or services for the direct benefit or use of the payor State entity or the Federal government to further Federal assistance program goals.
Rebate means funds returned to a State by third parties after a State has paid out those funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
Rebate
means funds returned to a State by third parties after a State has paid out those funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
Refund means funds that a State recovers that it previously paid out for Federal assistance program purposes. Refunds include rebates received from third parties.
Refund
means funds that a State recovers that it previously paid out for Federal assistance program purposes. Refunds include rebates received from third parties.
Refund transaction means an entry to the record of a State bank account representing a single deposit of refunds. A refund transaction may consist of a single check or item, or a bundle of accumulated checks.
Refund transaction
means an entry to the record of a State bank account representing a single deposit of refunds. A refund transaction may consist of a single check or item, or a bundle of accumulated checks.
Related banking costs means separately identified costs which are necessary and customary for maintaining an account in a financial institution, whether a commercial account or a State Treasurer account. Investment service fees and fees for credit-related services are not related banking costs.
Related banking costs
means separately identified costs which are necessary and customary for maintaining an account in a financial institution, whether a commercial account or a State Treasurer account. Investment service fees and fees for credit-related services are not related banking costs.
Request for funds means a State's request for funds that the State completes and submits in accordance with Federal Program Agency guidelines.
Request for funds
means a State's request for funds that the State completes and submits in accordance with Federal Program Agency guidelines.
Reverse flow program means a Federal assistance program, such as Supplemental Security Income (SSI), for which the Federal government makes payments to recipients on behalf of a State.
Reverse flow program
means a Federal assistance program, such as Supplemental Security Income (SSI), for which the Federal government makes payments to recipients on behalf of a State.
Revolving loan fund means a pool of program funds managed by a State. States may loan funds from the pool to other entities in support of Federal assistance program goals. Investment income is earned on the funds that remain in the pool and on loans made from pool funds. A Federal Program Agency may require that all income derived from a revolving loan fund be used for Federal assistance program purposes.
Revolving loan fund
means a pool of program funds managed by a State. States may loan funds from the pool to other entities in support of Federal assistance program goals. Investment income is earned on the funds that remain in the pool and on loans made from pool funds. A Federal Program Agency may require that all income derived from a revolving loan fund be used for Federal assistance program purposes.
Secretary means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury. We are the Secretary's representative in all matters concerning this part, unless otherwise specified.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury. We are the Secretary's representative in all matters concerning this part, unless otherwise specified.
State means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands. It includes any agency, instrumentality, or fiscal agent of a State that is legally and fiscally dependent on the State Executive, State Treasurer, or State Comptroller.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands. It includes any agency, instrumentality, or fiscal agent of a State that is legally and fiscally dependent on the State Executive, State Treasurer, or State Comptroller.
(1) A State agency or instrumentality is any organization of the primary government of the State financial reporting entity, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
(2) A fiscal agent of a State is an entity that pays, collects, or holds Federal funds on behalf of the State in furtherance of a Federal assistance program, excluding private nonprofit community organizations.
(3) Local governments, Indian Tribal governments, institutions of higher education, hospitals, and nonprofit organizations are excluded from the definition of State.
Treasury-State agreement means a document describing the accepted funding techniques and methods for calculating interest and identifying the Federal assistance programs governed by this subpart A.
Treasury-State agreement
means a document describing the accepted funding techniques and methods for calculating interest and identifying the Federal assistance programs governed by this subpart A.
Trust fund for which the Secretary is the trustee means a trust fund administered by the Secretary.
Trust fund for which the Secretary is the trustee
means a trust fund administered by the Secretary.
Vendor payment means a funds transfer by a Federal Program Agency to a State to compensate the State for acting as a vendor on a Federal contract.
Vendor payment
means a funds transfer by a Federal Program Agency to a State to compensate the State for acting as a vendor on a Federal contract.
We and Us means Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
We
and
Us
means Bureau of the Fiscal Service.

Subpart A—Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Included in a Treasury-State Agreement


§ 205.3   What Federal assistance programs are subject to this subpart A?

(a) Generally, this subpart prescribes the rules that apply to Federal assistance programs which:
(1) Are listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance;
(2) Meet the funding threshold for a major Federal assistance program; and
(3) Are included in a Treasury-State agreement or default procedures.
(b) Upon a State's request, we will make additional Federal assistance programs subject to subpart A by lowering the funding threshold in the Treasury-State agreement. All of a State's programs that meet this lower threshold would be subject to this subpart A.
(c) We may make additional Federal assistance programs subject to subpart A if a State or Federal Program Agency fails to comply with subpart B of this part.

§ 205.4   Are there any circumstances where a Federal assistance program that meets the criteria of § 205.3 would not be subject to this subpart A?

(a) A Federal assistance program that meets or exceeds the threshold for major Federal assistance programs in a State is not subject to this subpart A until it is included in a Treasury-State agreement or in default procedures.
(b) We and a State may agree to exclude components of a major Federal assistance program from interest calculations if the State administers the program through several State agencies and meets the following requirements:
(1) The dollar amount of the exempted cash flow does not exceed 5% of the State's major Federal assistance program threshold and the total amount excluded under a single program by all State agencies administering the program does not exceed 10% of that Federal assistance program's total expenditures;
(2) If less than the total amount of Federal assistance program funding is subject to interest calculation procedures, the interest liabilities should be pro-rated to 100% of the Federal assistance program funding;
(3) A State may not use this exclusion if a Federal assistance program is administered by only one State agency; and
(4) We may request Federal assistance program specific data on funding levels to determine exemptions.
(c) We and a State may exclude a Federal assistance program from this subpart A if the Federal assistance program has been discontinued since the most recent Single Audit and the remaining funding is below the threshold, or if the Federal assistance program is funded by an award not limited to one fiscal year and the remaining Federal assistance program funding is below the State's threshold.

§ 205.5   What are the thresholds for major Federal assistance programs?

(a) Table A of this section defines major Federal assistance programs based on the dollar amount of an individual Federal assistance program and the dollar amount of all Federal assistance being received by a State for all Federal assistance programs including non-cash programs. A State must locate the appropriate row in Column A based upon the total amount of Federal assistance received. In that same row, a State must apply the percentage from Column B to the dollar value of all its Federal assistance programs to determine the State's threshold for major Federal assistance programs. For example, if the total amount received by a State for all Federal assistance programs is $50 million, then that State's threshold for major Federal assistance programs is 6% of $50 million or $3 million. A State which receives more than $10 billion under Federal assistance programs will have a minimum default threshold of $60 million.
(b) To ensure adequate coverage of all State programs, a State must, on an annual basis, compare its program coverage using the percentage obtained from Table A to the program coverage which would result using a percentage which is half of the percentage obtained from Table A. For example, a State receiving $1 billion in Federal Assistance would use Table A to learn that its threshold level would be .60 percent of $1 billion. A State would compare program coverage at .60 percent of $1 billion to program coverage at .30 percent of $1 billion.
(c) If the comparison conducted under paragraph (b) of this section results in a reduction of program coverage that is greater than 10%, a State must lower its threshold, or add programs, until the difference is less than or equal to 10%.
(d) In accordance with § 205.3(b), a State may lower its threshold to include additional programs. All of a State's programs that meet this lower threshold would be subject to this subpart A.
(e) Unless specified otherwise, major Federal assistance programs must be determined from the most recent Single Audit data available.
Table A to § 205.5
Column A
Total amount of Federal Assistance for all programs per State:
Column B
Major Federal Assistance Program means any Federal assistance program that exceed these levels:
Between zero and $100 million inclusive
6.00 percent of the total amount of Federal assistance.
Over $100 million but less than or equal to $10 billion
0.60 percent of the total amount of Federal assistance.
Over $10 billion
The greater of 0.30 percent of the total Federal assistance of $60 million.

§ 205.6   What is a Treasury-State agreement?

(a) A Treasury-State agreement documents the accepted funding techniques and methods for calculating interest agreed upon by us and a State and identifies the Federal assistance programs governed by this subpart A. If anything in a Treasury-State agreement is inconsistent with this subpart A, that part of the Treasury-State agreement will not have any effect and this subpart A will govern.
(b) A Treasury-State agreement will be effective until terminated unless we and a State agree to a specific termination date. We or a State may terminate a Treasury-State agreement on 30 days written notice.

§ 205.7   Can a Treasury-State agreement be amended?

(a) We or a State may amend a Treasury-State agreement at any time if both we and the State agree in writing.
(b) The effective date of an amendment shall be the date both parties agree to the amendment in writing unless otherwise agreed to by both parties.
(c) We and a State must amend a Treasury-State agreement as needed to change or clarify its language when the terms of the existing agreement are either no longer correct or no longer applicable. A State must notify us in writing within 30 days of the time the State becomes aware of a change, describing the Federal assistance program change. The notification must include a proposed amendment for our review and a current list of all programs included in the Treasury-State agreement. Amendments may address, but are not limited to:
(1) Additions or deletions of Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A;
(2) Changes in funding techniques; and
(3) Changes in clearance patterns.
(d) Additions or deletions to the list of Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A take effect when a Treasury-State agreement is amended, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
(e) Federal assistance programs that are to be added to a Treasury-State agreement are not subject to this subpart A until the Treasury-State agreement is amended, except when a Federal assistance program subject to this subpart A is being replaced by a Federal assistance program governed by subpart B of this part, in which case the replacement program is immediately subject to this subpart A.
(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if no changes to the Treasury-State agreement are required, States must notify us annually.

§ 205.8   What if there is no Treasury-State agreement in effect?

When a State does not have a Treasury-State agreement in effect, we will prescribe default procedures to implement this subpart A. The default procedures will prescribe efficient funds transfer procedures consistent with State and Federal law and identify the covered Federal assistance programs and designated funding techniques. When we and a State reach agreement on some but not all Federal assistance programs administered by the State, we and the State may enter into a Treasury-State agreement for all programs on which we are in agreement and we may prescribe default procedures governing those programs on which we are unable to reach agreement.

§ 205.9   What is included in a Treasury-State agreement?

We will prescribe a uniform format for all Treasury-State agreements. A Treasury-State agreement must include, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) State agencies, instrumentalities, and fiscal agents that administer the Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A.
(b) Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A, consistent with §§ 205.3 and 205.4. A State must use its most recent Single Audit report as a basis for determining the funding thresholds for major Federal assistance programs, unless otherwise specified in the Treasury-State agreement. A State may use budget or appropriations data for a more recent period instead of Single Audit data, if specified in the Treasury-State agreement.
(c) Funding techniques to be applied to Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A.
(d) Methods the State will use to develop and maintain clearance patterns and estimates, consistent with § 205.11. The method must include, at a minimum, a clear indication of:
(1) The data used;
(2) The sources of the data;
(3) The development process;
(4) For estimates, when and how the State will update the estimate to reflect the most recent data available;
(5) For estimates, when and how the State will make adjustments, if any, to reconcile the difference between the estimate and the State's actual cash needs; and
(6) Any assumptions, standards, or conventions used in converting the data into the clearance pattern or estimate.
(e) Federal Program Agency provisions requiring reconciliation of estimates to actual outlays may be included in a Treasury-State agreement. The supporting documentation must be retained by the State for three years.
(f) States must include the results of the clearance pattern process in the Treasury-State agreement for programs where the timing of drawdowns is based on clearance patterns. For programs where the timing of drawdowns is not based on clearance patterns, the results of the clearance pattern process may be provided with the annual report required under § 205.26. The supporting documentation must be retained by the State for three years.
(g) Methods used by the State and Federal agencies to calculate interest liabilities pursuant to this subpart A. The method must include, but is not limited to, a clear indication of:
(1) The data used;
(2) The sources of the data;
(3) The calculation process; and
(4) Any assumptions, standards, or conventions used in converting the data into the interest liability amounts.
(h) Treasury-State agreements must include language describing how a State and Federal Program Agency will address a State request for supplemental funding. This language must include, but is not limited to, the following provisions:
(1) What constitutes a timely request for supplemental funds for Federal assistance program purposes by a State; and
(2) What constitutes a timely transfer of supplemental funds for Federal assistance program purposes from a Federal Program Agency to a State.

§ 205.10   How do you document funding techniques?

The Treasury-State agreement must include a concise description for each funding technique that a State will use. The description must include the following:
(a) What constitutes a timely request for funds;
(b) How the State determines the amount of funds to request;
(c) What procedures are used to project or reconcile estimates with actual and immediate cash needs;
(d) What constitutes the timely receipt of funds; and
(e) Whether a State or Federal interest liability accrues when the funding technique, including any associated procedure for projection or reconciliation, is properly applied.

§ 205.11   What requirements apply to funding techniques?

(a) A State and a Federal Program Agency must minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the United States Treasury and the State's payout of funds for Federal assistance program purposes, whether the transfer occurs before or after the payout of funds.
(b) A State and a Federal Program Agency must limit the amount of funds transferred to the minimum required to meet a State's actual and immediate cash needs.
(c) A State must not draw down funds from its account in the Unemployment Trust Fund (UTF) or from a Federal account in the UTF in advance of actual immediate cash needs for any purpose including maintaining a compensating balance.
(d) A Federal Program Agency must allow a State to submit requests for funds daily. This requirement should not be construed as a change to Federal Program Agency guidelines defining a properly completed request for funds.
(e) In accordance with the electronic funds transfer provisions of the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3332), a Federal Program Agency must use electronic funds transfer methods to transfer funds to States unless a waiver is available.

§ 205.12   What funding techniques may be used?

(a) We and a State may negotiate the use of mutually agreed upon funding techniques. We may deny interest liability if a State does not use a mutually agreed upon funding technique. Funding techniques should be efficient and minimize the exchange of interest between States and Federal agencies.
(b) We and a State may base our agreement on the sample funding techniques listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, or any other technique upon which both parties agree.
(1) Zero balance accounting means that a Federal Program Agency transfers the actual amount of Federal funds to a State that are paid out by the State each day.
(2) Projected clearance means that a Federal Program Agency transfers to a State the projected amount of funds that the State pays out each day. The projected amount paid out each day is determined by applying a clearance pattern to the total amount the State will disburse.
(3) Average clearance means that a Federal Program Agency, on the dollar-weighted average day of clearance of a disbursement, transfers to a State a lump sum equal to the actual amount of funds that the State is paying out. The dollar-weighted average day of clearance is the day when, on a cumulative basis, 50 percent of the funds have been paid out. The dollar-weighted average day of clearance is calculated from a clearance pattern, consistent with § 205.20.
(4) Cash advance (pre-issuance or post-issuance) funding means that a Federal Program Agency transfers the actual amount of Federal funds to a State that will be paid out by the State, in a lump sum, not more than three business days prior to the day the State issues checks or initiates EFT payments.
(5) Reimbursable funding means that a Federal Program Agency transfers Federal funds to a State after that State has already paid out the funds for Federal assistance program purposes.

§ 205.13   How do you determine when State or Federal interest liability accrues?

(a) State or Federal interest liability may or may not accrue when mutually agreed to funding techniques are applied, depending on the terms of the Treasury-State agreement.
(b) We and a State may agree in a Treasury-State agreement that no State or Federal interest liability will accrue for indirect costs or indirect allocated costs based on an indirect cost rate. This indirect cost must be consistent with OMB Circular A-87 (For availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3.) and be in accordance with this subpart A. The indirect cost rate may be a Statewide indirect cost rate or a public assistance cost rate, where appropriate.

§ 205.14   When does Federal interest liability accrue?

(a) Federal interest liabilities may accrue in accordance with the following provisions:
(1) The Federal Program Agency incurs interest liability if a State pays out its own funds for Federal assistance program purposes with valid obligational authority under Federal law, Federal regulation, or Federal-State agreement. A Federal interest liability will accrue from the day a State pays out its own funds for Federal assistance program purposes to the day Federal funds are credited to a State bank account.
(2) If a State pays out its own funds for Federal assistance program purposes without obligational authority, the Federal Program Agency will incur an interest liability if obligational authority subsequently is established. However, if the lack of obligational authority is the result of the failure of the State to comply with a Federal Program Agency requirement established by statute, regulation, or agreement, interest liability may be denied. A Federal interest liability will accrue from the day a State pays out its own funds for Federal assistance program purposes to the day Federal funds are credited to a State bank account.
(3) If a State pays out its own funds prior to the day a Federal Program Agency officially notifies the State in writing that a discretionary grant project is approved, the Federal Program Agency does not incur an interest liability, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.
(4) If a State pays out its own funds prior to the availability of Federal funds authorized or appropriated for a future Federal fiscal year, the Federal Program Agency does not incur an interest liability, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.
(5) If a State fails to request funds timely as set forth in § 205.29, or otherwise fails to apply a funding technique properly, we may deny any resulting Federal interest liability, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.
(b) Federal Program Agency programs that have specific payment dates set by the Federal Program Agency that create interest liabilities are subject to this part.
(c) States must adhere to Federal Program Agency disbursement schedules when requesting funds. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, we may deny a State's claim for Federal interest liability for the period prior to a late drawdown request. States must time their funds drawdown so that it does not create Federal interest liability. The drawdown request must allow the Federal Program Agency sufficient time to meet its disbursement schedule. If the Federal Program Agency does not make a timely payout in accordance with the terms of the Treasury-State agreement, a State may submit a claim for interest liability.

§ 205.15   When does State interest liability accrue?

(a) General rule. State interest liability may accrue if Federal funds are received by a State prior to the day the State pays out the funds for Federal assistance program purposes. State interest liability accrues from the day Federal funds are credited to a State account to the day the State pays out the Federal funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
General rule.
State interest liability may accrue if Federal funds are received by a State prior to the day the State pays out the funds for Federal assistance program purposes. State interest liability accrues from the day Federal funds are credited to a State account to the day the State pays out the Federal funds for Federal assistance program purposes.
(b) Refunds. (1) A State incurs interest liability on refunds of Federal funds from the day the refund is credited to a State account to the day the refund is either paid out for Federal assistance program purposes or credited to the Federal government.
Refunds.
(1) A State incurs interest liability on refunds of Federal funds from the day the refund is credited to a State account to the day the refund is either paid out for Federal assistance program purposes or credited to the Federal government.
(2) We and a State may agree, in a Treasury-State agreement, that a State does not incur an interest liability on refunds in refund transactions under $50,000.
(c) Exception to the general rule. A State does not incur an interest liability to the Federal government if a Federal statute requires the State to retain or use for Federal assistance program purposes the interest earned on Federal funds, notwithstanding any other provision in this section.
Exception to the general rule.
A State does not incur an interest liability to the Federal government if a Federal statute requires the State to retain or use for Federal assistance program purposes the interest earned on Federal funds, notwithstanding any other provision in this section.
(d) Mandatory matching of Federal funds. In programs utilizing mandatory matching of Federal funds with State funds, a State must not arbitrarily assign its earliest costs to the Federal government. A State incurs interest liabilities if it draws Federal funds in advance and/or in excess of the required proportion of agreed upon levels of State contributions in programs utilizing mandatory matching of Federal funds with State funds.
Mandatory matching of Federal funds.
In programs utilizing mandatory matching of Federal funds with State funds, a State must not arbitrarily assign its earliest costs to the Federal government. A State incurs interest liabilities if it draws Federal funds in advance and/or in excess of the required proportion of agreed upon levels of State contributions in programs utilizing mandatory matching of Federal funds with State funds.

§ 205.16   What special rules apply to Federal assistance programs and projects funded by the Federal Highway Trust Fund?

The following applies to Federal assistance programs and projects funded out of the Federal Highway Trust Fund, notwithstanding any other provision of this part:
(a) A State must request funds at least weekly for current project costs, or Federal interest liability will not accrue prior to the day a State submits a request for funds.
(b) If a State pays out its own funds in the absence of a project agreement or in excess of the Federal obligation in a project agreement, the Federal Program Agency will not incur an interest liability.

§ 205.17   Are funds transfers delayed by automated payment systems restrictions based on the size and timing of the drawdown request subject to this part?

Funds transfers delayed due to payment processes that automatically reject drawdown requests that fall outside a pre-determined set of parameters are subject to this part.

§ 205.18   Are administrative costs subject to this part?

(a) A State and Fiscal Service may agree, in a Treasury-State agreement, to the following funding conventions for indirect costs and administrative costs:
(1) The State will draw down a prorated amount of administrative costs on the date of the State payday. For example, the State would draw one-third of its quarterly administrative costs if payroll is monthly, or one-sixth of its quarterly administrative costs if payroll is semi-monthly.
(2) If an indirect cost rate is applied to a program, the State will include a proportionate share of the indirect cost allowance on each drawdown by applying the indirect cost rate to the appropriate direct costs on each drawdown.
(3) If costs must be allocated to various programs pursuant to a labor distribution or other system under an approved cost allocation plan, the State will draw down funds to meet cash outlay requirements based on the most recent, certified cost allocations, with subsequent adjustments made pursuant to the actual allocation of costs.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, no interest liabilities will be incurred or calculated for indirect costs and administrative costs, provided the funding conventions described in paragraph (a) of this section are properly applied.

§ 205.19   How is interest calculated?

(a) A State must calculate Federal interest liabilities and State interest liabilities for each Federal assistance program subject to this subpart A.
(b) The interest rate for all interest liabilities for each Federal assistance program subject to this subpart A is the annualized rate equal to the average equivalent yields of 13-week Treasury Bills auctioned during a State's fiscal year. We provide this rate to each State.
(c) A State must calculate and report interest liabilities on the basis of its fiscal year. A State must ensure that its interest calculations are auditable and retain a record of the calculations.
(d) As set forth in § 205.9, a Treasury-State agreement must include the method a State uses to calculate and document interest liabilities.
(e) A State may use actual data, a clearance pattern, or statistical sampling to calculate interest. A clearance pattern used to calculate interest must meet the standards of § 205.20. If a State uses statistical sampling to calculate interest, the State must sample transactions separately for each Federal assistance program subject to this subpart A. Each sample must be representative of the pool of transactions and be of sufficient size to accurately represent the flow of Federal funds under the Federal assistance program, including seasonal or other periodic variations.
(f) For the first year in which a Federal assistance program is covered in a Treasury-State agreement, funds transfers that occur prior to the first day of the State's fiscal year must not be included in interest calculations and are not subject to the interest liability provisions of this part.

§ 205.20   What is a clearance pattern?

States use clearance patterns to project when funds are paid out, given a known dollar amount and a known date of disbursement. A State must ensure that clearance patterns meet the following standards:
(a) A clearance pattern must be auditable.
(b) A clearance pattern must accurately represent the flow of Federal funds under the Federal assistance programs to which it is applied.
(c) A clearance pattern must include seasonal or other periodic variations in clearance activity.
(d) A clearance pattern must be based on at least three consecutive months of disbursement data, unless additional data is required to accurately represent the flow of Federal funds.
(e) If a State uses statistical sampling to develop a clearance pattern, the sample size must be sufficient to ensure a 96 percent confidence interval no more than plus or minus 0.25 weighted days above or below the estimated mean.
(f) A clearance pattern must extend, at a minimum, until 99 percent of the dollars in a disbursement have been paid out for Federal assistance program purposes.
(g) We and a State may agree to other procedures, such as estimates to project when funds are paid out when the dollar amount and/or the timing of disbursements are not known.

§ 205.21   When may clearance patterns be used?

(a) A State may develop a clearance pattern for:
(1) An individual Federal assistance program;
(2) A logical group of Federal assistance programs that have the same disbursement method and type of payee;
(3) A bank account;
(4) A specific type of payment, such as payroll or vendor payments; or
(5) Anything that is agreed upon by us and a State. If a clearance pattern is used for multiple Federal assistance programs, a State must apply the clearance pattern separately to each Federal assistance program when scheduling funds transfers or calculating interest.
(b) As set forth in § 205.9, a Treasury-State agreement must include the method a State uses to develop and maintain clearance patterns.

§ 205.22   How are accurate clearance patterns maintained?

(a) If a State has knowledge, at any time, that a clearance pattern no longer reflects a Federal assistance program's actual clearance activity, or if a Federal assistance program undergoes operational changes that may affect clearance activity, the State must notify us, develop a new clearance pattern, and certify that the new pattern corresponds to the Federal assistance program's clearance activity. Clearance patterns will remain in effect until a new clearance pattern is certified.
(b) An authorized State official must certify that a clearance pattern corresponds to the clearance activity of the Federal assistance program to which it is applied. An authorized State official must re-certify the accuracy of a clearance pattern at least every five years. If a State develops a clearance pattern for a bank account or a specific type of payment, or on another basis, as set forth in § 205.21, we may prescribe other requirements for re-certifying the accuracy of the clearance pattern. A State can begin to use a new clearance pattern on the date the new clearance pattern is certified.

§ 205.23   What requirements apply to estimates?

The following requirements apply when we and a State negotiate a mutually agreed upon funds transfer procedure based on an estimate of the State's immediate cash needs:
(a) The State must ensure that the estimate reasonably represents the flow of Federal funds under the Federal assistance program or program component to which the estimate applies. The estimate must take into account seasonal or other periodic variations in activity throughout the period for which the Federal funds are available.
(b) As set forth in §§ 205.9 and 205.10, a Treasury-State agreement must include the method a State uses to develop, maintain, and document the estimate.

§ 205.24   How are accurate estimates maintained?

(a) If a State has knowledge that an estimate does not reasonably correspond to the State's cash needs for a Federal assistance program or program component, or if a Federal assistance program undergoes operational changes that may affect cash needs, the State must immediately notify us in writing. We and the State will amend the funding technique provisions in the Treasury-State agreement or take other mutually agreed upon corrective action.
(b) When estimates are properly updated and applied, a State or Federal interest liability may or may not accrue, depending on the terms of the Treasury-State agreement.
(c) We may require a State to justify in writing that it is not feasible to use a more efficient basis for determining the amount of funds to be transferred under the Federal assistance program or program component to which an estimate is applied. We may prescribe requirements for certifying the reasonableness of an estimate.

§ 205.25   How does this part apply to certain Federal assistance programs or funds?

(a) Special rules apply to certain Federal assistance programs or funds described in this section. To the extent the provisions of this section are inconsistent with other provisions of this part, this section applies.
(b) A State's interest liability on funds withdrawn from its account in the UTF equals the actual interest earned on such funds less the related banking costs. Actual interest earned does not include non-cash bank earnings. If funds withdrawn from the State account in the UTF are commingled with other funds, a proportionate share of interest earnings and banking costs must be allocated to the funds withdrawn from the State account. Interest liabilities on funds withdrawn from a Federal account in the UTF, except the Federal Unemployment Account, are calculated in accordance with § 205.19.
(c) Supplemental Security Income. (1) Except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 1382e(d), the Federal government incurs an interest liability from the day State funds are credited to the Federal government's account to the day a Federal Program Agency pays out the State funds for Federal assistance program purposes. A State incurs an interest liability from the day a Federal Program Agency pays out Federal funds for Federal assistance program purposes to the day State funds are credited to the Federal government's account.
Supplemental Security Income.
(1) Except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 1382e(d), the Federal government incurs an interest liability from the day State funds are credited to the Federal government's account to the day a Federal Program Agency pays out the State funds for Federal assistance program purposes. A State incurs an interest liability from the day a Federal Program Agency pays out Federal funds for Federal assistance program purposes to the day State funds are credited to the Federal government's account.
(2) Interest liability must be calculated on the difference between a State's monthly Supplemental Security Income payment and the State's actual liability for the month.
(3) The Federal government will not incur interest liabilities on refunds of State funds under the Supplemental Security Income Program.
(4) Administrative fees charged by the Social Security Administration to States under the Supplemental Security Income program are not subject to this part.
(5) Supplemental State payments made in conjunction with Supplemental Security Income are not subject to this part.
(d) Funds collected under the Child Support Enforcement Program. (1) Funds collected by States from absent parents pursuant to Title IV-D of the Social Security Act are not subject to this part.
Funds collected under the Child Support Enforcement Program.
(1) Funds collected by States from absent parents pursuant to Title IV-D of the Social Security Act are not subject to this part.
(2) Interest earned by States on undistributed collections must be treated as Federal assistance program income under 45 CFR 304.50(b) and is not subject to this part.
(3) Late payment fees collected by States from absent parents are not subject to interest liabilities under this part and are not subject to this part. However, such fees must be treated as Federal assistance program income in accordance with 45 CFR 302.75(b)(6).
(e) A State that earns interest on Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children rebates is not subject to interest liability if the funds earned are used for Federal assistance program purposes.
(f) Revolving Loan Funds. (1) This part applies to any transfer of funds from the Federal Program Agency to the State for the Revolving Loan Fund.
Revolving Loan Funds.
(1) This part applies to any transfer of funds from the Federal Program Agency to the State for the Revolving Loan Fund.
(2) This part does not apply to interest a State earns on Revolving Loan Funds when Federal Program Agency regulations require that all interest earned on invested funds be used for Federal assistance program purposes.

§ 205.26   What are the requirements for preparing Annual Reports?

(a) A State must submit to us an Annual Report accounting for State and Federal interest liabilities of the State's most recently completed fiscal year. Adjustments to the Annual Report must be limited to the two State fiscal years prior to the State fiscal year covered by the report. The authorized State official must certify the accuracy of a State's Annual Report. A signed original of the Annual Report must be received by December 31 of the year in which the State's fiscal year ends. We will provide copies of Annual Reports to Federal agencies. We will prescribe the format of the Annual Report, and may prescribe that the Annual Report be submitted by electronic means.
(b) A State must submit a description and supporting documentation for liability claims greater than $5,000. This information must include the following:
(1) The amount of funds requested;
(2) The date the funds were requested;
(3) The date the funds were paid out for Federal assistance program purposes;
(4) The date the funds were received by the State; and
(5) The date of award.
(c) A State claiming reimbursement of Interest Calculation Costs must submit its claim with its Annual Report in accordance with § 205.27. An authorized State official must certify the accuracy of a State's claim for Interest Calculation Costs.

§ 205.27   How are Interest Calculation Costs calculated?

(a) We will compensate a State annually for the costs of calculating interest, including the cost of developing and maintaining clearance patterns in support of interest calculations, pursuant to this subpart A, subject to the conditions and limitations of this section.
(b) We may deny an interest calculation cost claim if a State does not:
(1) Have a Treasury-State agreement with us, as set forth in §§ 205.6 through 205.9;
(2) Submit timely a Treasury-State agreement, as set forth in §§ 205.6 through 205.9;
(3) Submit timely an updated list of Federal assistance programs subject to this subpart A, as set forth in §§ 205.6 through 205.9;
(4) Submit timely a claim for Interest Calculation Costs with its Annual Report, as set forth in § 205.26; or
(5) Submit timely its Annual Report, as set forth in § 205.26.
(c) A State must maintain documentation to substantiate its claim for Interest Calculation Costs. We may require a State to provide documentation to support its interest calculation cost claims. We will review all interest calculation cost claims for reasonableness. If we determine that a cost claim is unreasonable, we will not reimburse a State for that cost, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.
(d) Eligibility and treatment of Interest Calculation Costs. (1) Interest Calculation Costs do not include expenses for normal disbursing services, such as processing checks or maintaining records for accounting and reconciliation of cash accounts, or expenses for upgrading or modernizing accounting systems.
Eligibility and treatment of Interest Calculation Costs.
(1) Interest Calculation Costs do not include expenses for normal disbursing services, such as processing checks or maintaining records for accounting and reconciliation of cash accounts, or expenses for upgrading or modernizing accounting systems.
(2) Interest Calculation Costs in excess of $50,000 in any year are not eligible for reimbursement, unless a State can justify to us that the State is unable to develop and maintain clearance patterns in support of interest calculations, or perform the actual calculation of interest, without incurring such costs. Supporting documentation must accompany State requests for reimbursement in excess of $50,000.
(3) Interest Calculation Costs that a State incurs in fiscal years prior to its most recently completed Annual Report are not eligible for reimbursement.
(4) A State must not include Interest Calculation Costs in its Statewide cost allocation plan, as defined and provided for in OMB Circular A-87. All costs incurred by a State to implement this subpart A, other than Interest Calculation Costs, are subject to the procedures and principles of OMB Circular A-87.
(e) The payments from the Federal government to individual States to offset Interest Calculation Costs incurred are funded from the aggregate interest payments States make to the Federal government. The following limitations apply:
(1) We will not reduce or adjust interest liabilities for Federal assistance programs funded out of trust funds for which the Secretary is trustee. These programs include, but are not limited to, Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund (CFDA 17.225); Highway & Planning Trust Fund (CFDA 20.205); Airport Improvement Trust Fund (CFDA 20.106); Federal Transit Capital Improvement Trust Fund (CFDA 20.500); Federal Transit Capital & Operating Assistance Trust Fund (CFDA 20.507); and Social Security—Disability Insurance Trust Fund (CFDA 96.001); and
(2) The aggregate payments from the Federal government to States to offset Interest Calculation Costs will not be greater than the aggregate interest payments States make to the Federal government.

§ 205.28   How are interest payments exchanged?

(a) We offset the adjusted total State interest liability and the adjusted total Federal interest liability for each State to determine the net interest payable to or from each specific State. The payment of net interest and any Interest Calculation Costs, as set forth in § 205.27, for the most recently completed fiscal year must occur no later than March 31. We will notify a State of the final net interest liability. A State must submit a claim to receive payment.
(b) A State may appeal a decision by us on interest liabilities and interest calculation cost claims in accordance with § 205.31.
(c) If a State appeals the amount of interest payable in accordance with the provisions of § 205.31, payment must occur by March 31 for any portions not subject to the appeal.
(d) The Federal government will not be liable for interest on any payment of interest to a State.

§ 205.29   What are the State oversight and compliance responsibilities?

(a) A State must designate an official representative with the statutory or administrative authority to coordinate all interaction with the Federal government concerning this subpart A, and must notify us in writing of the representative's name and title. A State must notify us immediately of any change in the official representative.
(b) A State must maintain records supporting interest calculations, clearance patterns, Interest Calculation Costs, and other functions directly pertinent to the implementation and administration of this subpart A for audit purposes. A State must retain the records for each fiscal year for three years from the date the State submits its Annual Report, or until any pending dispute or action involving the records and documents is completed, whichever is later. We, the Comptroller General, and the Inspector General or other representative of a Federal Program Agency must have the right of access to, and may require submission of, all records for the purpose of verifying interest calculations, clearance patterns, interest calculation cost claims, and the State's accounting for Federal funds.
(c) A State's implementation of this subpart A is subject to audit in accordance with 31 U.S.C. Chapter 75, “Requirements for Single Audits.”
(d) If a State repeatedly or deliberately fails to request funds in accordance with the procedures established for its funding techniques, as set forth in § 205.11, § 205.12, or a Treasury-State agreement, we may deny the State payment or credit for the resulting Federal interest liability, notwithstanding any other provision of this part.
(e) If a State materially fails to comply with this subpart A, we may, in addition to the action described in paragraph (d) of this section, take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate under the circumstances:
(1) Deny the reimbursement of all or a part of the State's interest calculation cost claim;
(2) Send notification of the non-compliance to the affected Federal Program Agency for appropriate action, including, where appropriate, a determination regarding the impact of non-compliance on program funding;
(3) Request a Federal Program Agency or the General Accounting Office to conduct an audit of the State to determine interest owed to the Federal government, and to implement procedures to recover such interest;
(4) Initiate a debt collection process to recover claims owed to the United States; or
(5) Take other remedies legally available.

§ 205.30   What are the Federal oversight and compliance responsibilities?

(a) A Federal Program Agency must designate an official representative to coordinate all interaction with us and the States concerning this subpart A, and must notify us in writing of the representative's name and title. A Federal Program Agency must notify us immediately of any change in the official representative.
(b) A Federal Program Agency's implementation of this subpart A is subject to review pursuant to procedural instructions that we issue.
(c) We will consult with Federal agencies as necessary and appropriate before entering into or amending a Treasury-State agreement.
(d) We will distribute Annual Reports to Federal agencies, as set forth in § 205.26. Upon our request, a Federal Program Agency must review a State's Annual Report for reasonableness and must report its findings to us within 30 days.
(e) A Federal Program Agency must notify us in writing if the program agency has knowledge, at any time, that:
(1) A State's clearance pattern does not correspond to a Federal assistance program's clearance activity; or
(2) Corrective action needs to be taken by a State, us, or another Federal Program Agency, with respect to the implementation of this subpart. We will notify the State or Federal Program Agency as appropriate in writing with a description of the Federal Program Agency's assertion.
(f) A Federal Program Agency must notify us in writing of new Federal assistance programs listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance.
(g) If a Federal Program Agency causes an interest liability by failing to comply with this subpart A, we may collect a charge from the Federal Program Agency. A Federal interest liability resulting from circumstances beyond the control of a Federal Program Agency does not constitute noncompliance. We will determine the charge using the following procedures:
(1) We will issue a Notice of Assessment to the Federal Program Agency, indicating the nature of the noncompliance, the amount of the charge, the manner in which it was calculated, and the right to file an appeal.
(2) To the maximum extent practicable, a Federal Program Agency must pay a charge for noncompliance out of appropriations available for the Federal Program Agency's operations and not from the Federal Program Agency's program funds.
(3) If a Federal Program Agency does not pay a charge for noncompliance within 45 days after receiving a Notice of Assessment, we will debit the appropriate Federal Program Agency account.
(4) In the event a Federal Program Agency appeals a charge imposed under the Notice of Assessment, we will defer the charge until we decide the appeal. If we deny the appeal, the effective date of the charge may be retroactive to the date indicated in the Notice of Assessment.

§ 205.31   How does a State or Federal Program Agency appeal a determination made by us and resolve disputes?

(a) This section documents the procedures for:
(1) A State to appeal the net interest charge that we have assessed;
(2) A State to appeal a determination we have made regarding the State's claim for Interest Calculation Costs in accordance with § 205.27;
(3) A Federal Program Agency to appeal a charge for noncompliance that we have assessed in accordance with § 205.30; or
(4) A State or a Federal Program Agency to resolve other disputes with us or between or among each other concerning the implementation of this subpart A.
(b) A State or Federal Program Agency must submit a written petition (Petition) to the Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, (Assistant Commissioner), within 90 days of the date of the notice of assessment or the event that initiated the appeal or dispute. The Petition must include a concise factual statement, not to exceed 15 pages, with supporting documentation in the appendices, of the conditions forming the basis of the Petition and the action requested of the Assistant Commissioner. In the case of a dispute, the party submitting the petition to us must concurrently provide a copy of the petition to the other concerned parties. The other concerned parties may submit to the Assistant Commissioner a rebuttal within 90 days of the date of the petition. The rebuttal must include a concise factual statement, not to exceed 15 pages, with supporting documentation in the appendices.
(c) The Assistant Commissioner will review the Petition, any rebuttal, and all supporting documentation. As part of the review process, the Assistant Commissioner may request to meet with any or all parties and may request additional information.
(d) The Assistant Commissioner will issue a written decision within the later of 120 days of the date of the Petition or the rebuttal, in case of a dispute, or 120 days from receipt of any additional information. The Assistant Commissioner's decision will be the final program agency action on our part for purposes of judicial review procedures under the Administrative Procedures Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706 (APA), unless either the State or Federal Program Agency invokes the provisions of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1990 (ADRA), 5 U.S.C. 581-593.
(e) Either a State or Federal Program Agency may seek to invoke the provisions of the ADRA within 45 days after the date of the Assistant Commissioner's written decision.
(1) The party invoking the ADRA must notify the Assistant Commissioner and any other concerned parties in writing. If all parties, including the Assistant Commissioner, agree in writing, a neutral party appointed under the provisions of the ADRA may assist in resolving the dispute through the use of alternate means of dispute resolution as defined in the ADRA.
(2) If the party invoking the ADRA is unable to reach a satisfactory resolution, the Assistant Commissioner's decision will be the final agency action on our part for purposes of the judicial review procedures under the APA.
(f) Any amount due as a result of an appeal or dispute must be paid within 30 days of the date of the decision of the Assistant Commissioner or the date of the resolution under the ADRA. If a State fails to pay, the State will be subject to collection techniques under 31 U.S.C. 3701 et seq., including accrual of interest on outstanding balances and administrative offset.
et seq.,
including accrual of interest on outstanding balances and administrative offset.

Subpart B—Rules Applicable to Federal Assistance Programs Not Included in a Treasury-State Agreement


§ 205.32   What Federal assistance programs are subject to this subpart B?

This subpart B applies to all Federal assistance programs listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance that are not subject to subpart A of this part.

§ 205.33   How are funds transfers processed?

(a) A State must minimize the time between the drawdown of Federal funds from the Federal government and their disbursement for Federal program purposes. A Federal Program Agency must limit a funds transfer to a State to the minimum amounts needed by the State and must time the disbursement to be in accord with the actual, immediate cash requirements of the State in carrying out a Federal assistance program or project. The timing and amount of funds transfers must be as close as is administratively feasible to a State's actual cash outlay for direct program costs and the proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs. States should exercise sound cash management in funds transfers to subgrantees in accordance with OMB Circular A-102 (For availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3.).
(b) Neither a State nor the Federal government will incur an interest liability under this part on the transfer of funds for a Federal assistance program subject to this subpart B.

§ 205.34   What are the Federal oversight and compliance responsibilities?

(a) A Federal Program Agency must review the practices of States as necessary to ensure compliance with this subpart B.
(b) A Federal Program Agency must notify us if a State demonstrates an unwillingness or inability to comply with this subpart B.
(c) A Federal Program Agency must formulate procedural instructions specifying the methods for carrying out the responsibilities of this section.

§ 205.35   What is the result of Federal Program Agency or State non-compliance?

We may require a State and a Federal Program Agency to make the affected Federal assistance programs subject to subpart A of this part, consistent with Federal assistance program purposes and regulations, notwithstanding any other provision of this part, if:
(a) A State demonstrates an unwillingness or inability to comply with this subpart B; or
(b) A Federal Program Agency demonstrates an unwillingness or inability to make Federal funds available to a State as needed to carry out a Federal assistance program.

Subpart C [Reserved]


PART 206—MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL AGENCY RECEIPTS, DISBURSEMENTS, AND OPERATION OF THE CASH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS FUND

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3301, 3302, 3321, 3327, 3328, 3332, 3335, 3720, and 6503.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3301, 3302, 3321, 3327, 3328, 3332, 3335, 3720, and 6503.
[Source:59 FR 4538, Jan. 31, 1994, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
59 FR 4538, Jan. 31, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

§ 206.1   Scope and application.

(a) This subpart applies to all Government departments and agencies in the executive branch (except the Tennessee Valley Authority) and all monies collected and disbursed by these departments and agencies. This subpart does not apply to interagency transfers of funds, except that agencies are to use the Treasury's On-Line Payment and Collection (OPAC) system for interagency payments between executive agencies, when cost-effective.
(b) Policies and guidelines are prescribed for promoting efficient, effective cash management through improved billing, collection, deposit, and payment of funds. These objectives seek to improve funds availability and the efficiency and effectiveness with which funds are transferred.
(c) Authority to implement this regulation has been delegated within the Department of the Treasury (hereinafter, “Treasury”) to the Commissioner (hereinafter, “the Commissioner”) of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service (hereinafter, “the Service).” The Service maintains the final authority as granted under the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 to specify use of a particular method or mechanism of collection and deposit and to recover costs that result from noncompliance. Authority is also granted to the Service, under the Cash Management Improvement Act of 1990, as amended by the Cash Management Improvement Act Amendments of 1992, to provide for the timely disbursement of funds. An agency will require the collection or disbursement of funds by the agency via EFT as a provision of new contractual agreements or renewal of existing contracts that impact agency collection or payment mechanisms.

§ 206.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part, the following definitions apply:
Agency means any department, instrumentality, office, commission, board, service, Government corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch, except the Tennessee Valley Authority.
Agency
means any department, instrumentality, office, commission, board, service, Government corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch, except the Tennessee Valley Authority.
Billing means any of a variety of means by which the Government places a demand for payment against an entity that is indebted to the Government. The term encompasses invoices, notices, initial demand letters, and other forms of notification.
Billing
means any of a variety of means by which the Government places a demand for payment against an entity that is indebted to the Government. The term encompasses invoices, notices, initial demand letters, and other forms of notification.
Cash management means practices and techniques designed to accelerate and control collections, ensure prompt deposit of receipts, improve control over disbursement methods, and eliminate idle cash balances. “Cash Management Review Process” means periodic examinations of collection and disbursement cash flows to ensure that the most effective mechanisms are used to process the funds.
Cash management
means practices and techniques designed to accelerate and control collections, ensure prompt deposit of receipts, improve control over disbursement methods, and eliminate idle cash balances. “Cash Management Review Process” means periodic examinations of collection and disbursement cash flows to ensure that the most effective mechanisms are used to process the funds.
Collection means the transfer of monies from a source outside the Federal Government to an agency or to a financial institution acting as an agent of the Government.
Collection
means the transfer of monies from a source outside the Federal Government to an agency or to a financial institution acting as an agent of the Government.
Collection mechanism means any one of a number of tools or systems by which monies are transferred to the Government from a source outside the Government.
Collection mechanism
means any one of a number of tools or systems by which monies are transferred to the Government from a source outside the Government.
Cutoff time means a time predesignated by a financial institution beyond which transactions presented or actions requested will be considered the next banking day's business.
Cutoff time
means a time predesignated by a financial institution beyond which transactions presented or actions requested will be considered the next banking day's business.
Day means a calendar day unless otherwise specified.
Day
means a calendar day unless otherwise specified.
Deposit means as a noun, money that is being or has been presented for credit to the Treasury. Deposits can be made by an agency or directly by the remitter. All such transfers are effected through a Federal Reserve Bank or other financial institution. As a verb, deposit means the act of presenting monies for credit to the Treasury by an official of an agency.
Deposit
means as a noun, money that is being or has been presented for credit to the Treasury. Deposits can be made by an agency or directly by the remitter. All such transfers are effected through a Federal Reserve Bank or other financial institution. As a verb, deposit means the act of presenting monies for credit to the Treasury by an official of an agency.
Depositary means a bank or other financial institution that has been authorized by the Treasury to receive monies for credit to the Treasury.
Depositary
means a bank or other financial institution that has been authorized by the Treasury to receive monies for credit to the Treasury.
Disburse means the initiation of an Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) transaction or other methods of drawing funds from accounts maintained by the Government.
Disburse
means the initiation of an Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) transaction or other methods of drawing funds from accounts maintained by the Government.
Electronic funds transfer (EFT) means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by cash, check or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an account. The term includes, but is not limited to, Fed Wire transfers, Automated Clearing House (ACH) transfers, transfers made at automatic teller machines (ATM) and Point-of-Sale (POS) terminals (to include use of the Government small purchase card), and other means of credit card transactions.
Electronic funds transfer (EFT)
means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by cash, check or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an account. The term includes, but is not limited to, Fed Wire transfers, Automated Clearing House (ACH) transfers, transfers made at automatic teller machines (ATM) and Point-of-Sale (POS) terminals (to include use of the Government small purchase card), and other means of credit card transactions.
Fund means the Cash Management Improvements Fund.
Fund
means the Cash Management Improvements Fund.
Monies (or “receipts”) means EFT transactions, currency, negotiable instruments, and/or demand deposits owed to or collected by an agency.
Monies
(or “receipts”) means EFT transactions, currency, negotiable instruments, and/or demand deposits owed to or collected by an agency.
Next-day deposit means a deposit made before the cutoff time on the day following the day on which the funds were received by an agency. For example, if an agency receives funds for deposit at 3 p.m. on Monday and transmits the deposits to the depositary by 2 p.m. on Tuesday (the depositary's next cutoff time), then next-day deposit requirements are met.
Next-day deposit
means a deposit made before the cutoff time on the day following the day on which the funds were received by an agency. For example, if an agency receives funds for deposit at 3 p.m. on Monday and transmits the deposits to the depositary by 2 p.m. on Tuesday (the depositary's next cutoff time), then next-day deposit requirements are met.
Payment means a sum of money transferred to a recipient in satisfaction of an obligation. A payment includes any Federal Government benefit or nonbenefit payment.
Payment
means a sum of money transferred to a recipient in satisfaction of an obligation. A payment includes any Federal Government benefit or nonbenefit payment.
(1) A benefit payment is a disbursement for a Federal Government entitlement program or annuity. Benefit payments may be one-time or recurring payments including, but not limited to, payments for Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Black Lung, Civil Service Retirement, Railroad Retirement Board Retirement/Annuity, Department of Veterans Affairs Compensation/Pension, Central Intelligence Agency Annuity, Military Retirement Annuity, Coast Guard Retirement, and Worker's Compensation.
(2) A nonbenefit payment is a Federal Government disbursement other than a benefit payment. Nonbenefit payments may be one-time or recurring payments including, but not limited to, payments for vendors, Internal Revenue Service tax refunds, Federal salaries and allotments therefrom, grants, travel disbursements and reimbursements, loans, principal and/or interest related to U.S. savings bonds, notes, and other savings-type securities, and payments of service fees to organizations qualified to issue and/or redeem savings bonds.
Point-of-sale (POS) terminal means an automated credit card or debit card transaction device.
Point-of-sale (POS) terminal
means an automated credit card or debit card transaction device.
Presumed EFT means that agencies will presume that new payment recipients will elect EFT as the means of payment delivery. Enrollment forms for use in establishing routine payments will be designed with this approach in mind, to obtain the required written consent of the recipient.
Presumed EFT
means that agencies will presume that new payment recipients will elect EFT as the means of payment delivery. Enrollment forms for use in establishing routine payments will be designed with this approach in mind, to obtain the required written consent of the recipient.
Recipient means a person, corporation, or other public or private entity receiving benefit or nonbenefit payments from the Government.
Recipient
means a person, corporation, or other public or private entity receiving benefit or nonbenefit payments from the Government.
Same-day deposit means a deposit made before the cutoff time on the day on which the funds were received by an agency. For example, if an agency receives funds for deposit at 10 a.m. on Monday and transmits the deposits by 2 p.m. on Monday (the depositary's cutoff time), then a same-day deposit has been achieved.
Same-day deposit
means a deposit made before the cutoff time on the day on which the funds were received by an agency. For example, if an agency receives funds for deposit at 10 a.m. on Monday and transmits the deposits by 2 p.m. on Monday (the depositary's cutoff time), then a same-day deposit has been achieved.
Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury.
Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury.
Treasury Financial Manual (TFM) means the manual issued by the Service containing procedures to be observed by all Government departments and agencies in relation to central accounting, financial reporting, and other Governmentwide fiscal responsibilities of the Department of the Treasury. Volume I, Chapter 6-8000 (I TFM 6-8000) contains agency cash management procedures to be followed pertaining to these regulations.
Treasury Financial Manual (TFM)
means the manual issued by the Service containing procedures to be observed by all Government departments and agencies in relation to central accounting, financial reporting, and other Governmentwide fiscal responsibilities of the Department of the Treasury. Volume I, Chapter 6-8000 (I TFM 6-8000) contains agency cash management procedures to be followed pertaining to these regulations.
Copies of the TFM are available free to Government agencies. Others who are interested in ordering a copy may call (202) 208-1819 or write the Directives Management Branch, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, Liberty Center (UCP-741), Washington, DC 20227 for further information.

§ 206.3   Billing policy and procedures.

The billing process is considered an integral part of an effective cash management collection program. In those situations where bills are required and the failure to bill would affect the cash flow, bills will be prepared and transmitted within 5 business days after goods have been shipped or released, services have been rendered, or payment is otherwise due. An agency may prepare and transmit bills later than the 5-day timeframe if it can demonstrate that it is cost-effective to do so. In addition, the bill must include the terms and dates of payments, and late payment provisions, if applicable. Terms and dates of payments will be consistent with industry practices. I TFM 6-8000 describes detailed billing policies, procedures, and industry standards for agencies.

§ 206.4   Collection and payment mechanisms.

(a) All funds are to be collected and disbursed by EFT when cost-effective, practicable, and consistent with current statutory authority.
(b) Collections and payments will be made by EFT when cost- effective, practicable, and consistent with current statutory authority. When consistent with these criteria, specific cash flows will utilize EFT as follows:
(1) Fees/fines. EFT will be adopted as the presumed method of collecting fees and fines, especially when these collection cash flows are recurring or of large dollar amounts.
Fees/fines.
EFT will be adopted as the presumed method of collecting fees and fines, especially when these collection cash flows are recurring or of large dollar amounts.
(2) Tax collections. EFT will be adopted as the primary method for collecting taxes. EFT mechanisms may include ACH credit or debit cards.
Tax collections.
EFT will be adopted as the primary method for collecting taxes. EFT mechanisms may include ACH credit or debit cards.
(3) Salary payment. Presumed EFT will be adopted as the method for paying employees, and entrance enrollment forms for establishing regular payments will be designed to use this approach.
Salary payment.
Presumed EFT will be adopted as the method for paying employees, and entrance enrollment forms for establishing regular payments will be designed to use this approach.
(4) Vendor and miscellaneous payments. Each department and agency will exercise its authority under the Federal Acquisition Regulation to require that all contractors are paid by EFT, unless a determination is made that it is not in the best interest of the Federal Government to do so. EFT will be adopted as the standard method of payment for all Federal program payments originated by agencies or their agents.
Vendor and miscellaneous payments.
Each department and agency will exercise its authority under the Federal Acquisition Regulation to require that all contractors are paid by EFT, unless a determination is made that it is not in the best interest of the Federal Government to do so. EFT will be adopted as the standard method of payment for all Federal program payments originated by agencies or their agents.
(5) Benefit payments. EFT will be presented to new beneficiaries as the presumed method for receiving benefits. EFT payment methods, such as Electronic Benefit Transfer, will be adopted and implemented to make EFT accessible to all benefit recipients.
Benefit payments.
EFT will be presented to new beneficiaries as the presumed method for receiving benefits. EFT payment methods, such as Electronic Benefit Transfer, will be adopted and implemented to make EFT accessible to all benefit recipients.
(c)(1) Selection of the best collection and payment mechanism is a joint responsibility of an agency and the Service. An agency has responsibility for conducting cash management reviews; gathering volume and dollar data relative to the operation of the systems; and funding any implementation and operational costs above those normally funded by Treasury. The Service is the required approval authority when an agency desires to convert from one collection mechanism to another. The Service's written approval is required prior to an agency entering into new contractual agreements or renewing existing contracts for agency collections or payments systems. Agencies will follow guidelines for the cost-effective usage of collection and payment mechanisms, published in the TFM, Volume I, Part 6-8000, in their selection and recommendation to the Service of an appropriate funds transfer mechanism. The agency will provide the Service with a recommended mechanism for any new or modified cash flows. The Service will review the recommendations, approve a mechanism, and assist with implementation.
(2) If an agency proposes a collection or payment mechanism other than EFT, it may be required to provide a cost-benefit analysis to justify its use. Cost/benefit analyses must include, at a minimum, known or estimated agency personnel costs, costs of procurement, recurring operational costs, equipment and system implementation and maintenance costs, costs to payment recipients, and costs to remitters. Agencies should consult with Treasury to determine the need to include interest costs associated with float in their computations of benefits and costs.
(d) An agency will require the collection of funds by the agency to be made via EFT and the disbursement of funds by the agency to be made via EFT as a provision of new contractual agreements or renewal of existing contracts that impact agency collection or payment mechanisms, when cost-effective, practicable, and consistent with current statutory authority.

§ 206.5   Collection and deposit procedure exceptions.

(a) The following collection and deposit timeframe requirements are to be followed in exception cases where EFT mechanisms are not utilized:
(1) An agency will achieve same-day deposit of monies. Where same day deposit is not cost-effective or is impracticable, next day deposit of monies must be achieved except in those cases covered by I TFM 6-8000.
(2) Deposits will be made at a time of the day prior to the depositary's specified cutoff time, but as late as possible in order to maximize daily deposit amounts.
(3) When cost-beneficial to the Government, an agency may make multiple deposits.
(b) Any additional exceptions to the above policies are listed in I TFM 6-8000.

§ 206.6   Cash management planning and review.

(a) An agency shall periodically perform cash management reviews to identify areas needing improvement.
(b) As part of its cash management review process, an agency is expected to document cash flows in order to provide an overview of its cash management activities and to identify areas that will yield savings after cash management initiatives are implemented. The Service will evaluate an agency's EFT policy and application, to include mitigating circumstances that may prevent the use of EFT, as part of the cash management reviews.
(c) An agency's cash management reviews will provide the basis for identification of improvements and preparation of cash flow reports for submission to the Service as prescribed by I TFM 6-8000. That Chapter provides requirements for an agency in performing periodic cash management reviews, identifying improvements, and preparing cash flow reports. In addition, the Chapter describes the timing and content of periodic reports that must be submitted by an agency to the Service on progress made in implementing cash management initiatives and associated savings.
(d) The Service will periodically review an agency's cash management program to ensure that adequate progress is being made to improve overall cash management at an agency. As part of its oversight authority, the Service may visit an agency and review all or specific cash management activities of an agency. An agency will be notified in advance of the Service's review and will be required to provide the Service with documentation of the agency cash management review within the timeframes required by I TFM 6-8000.

§ 206.7   Compliance.

(a) The Service will monitor agency cash management performance. Part of the monitoring process will include establishing implementation end dates for conversion to, or expansion of, EFT mechanisms, as well as the identification of mitigating circumstances that may prevent the use of EFT.
(b) In cases where an agency fails to meet a scheduled date within its control, or where an agency converts to a less cost-effective transfer mechanism without prior, written Service approval as determined in accordance with § 206.4(c), the Service will send a formal Notice of Deficiency to an agency's designated cash management official. A separate Notice will be sent for each initiative.
(1) Collections cash flows. For collections cash flows, the Notice of Deficiency will include the nature of the deficiency, the amount of the proposed charge, the method of calculation, the right to file an appeal, and the date the charge will be imposed in the absence of an appeal. The amount of the charge will be equal to the cost of such noncompliance to the Treasury's General Fund.
Collections cash flows.
For collections cash flows, the Notice of Deficiency will include the nature of the deficiency, the amount of the proposed charge, the method of calculation, the right to file an appeal, and the date the charge will be imposed in the absence of an appeal. The amount of the charge will be equal to the cost of such noncompliance to the Treasury's General Fund.
(2) Payments cash flows. [Reserved]
Payments cash flows.
[Reserved]

§ 206.8   Appeals.

(a) An agency that chooses to file an appeal must submit the appeal in writing to the Commissioner within 45 days of the date of the Notice of Deficiency. In the event of an appeal, the charge imposed under Notice of Deficiency will be deferred pending the results of the appeal. If an appeal is not submitted (i.e., received by the Commissioner) within 45 days, the amount indicated in the Notice of Deficiency will be charged per § 206.9(a).
i.e.
, received by the Commissioner) within 45 days, the amount indicated in the Notice of Deficiency will be charged per § 206.9(a).
(b) The appeal will contain the elements and follow the submission procedures specified in I TFM 6-8000. The appeal will include the background leading to the Notice of Deficiency, the basis of the appeal, and the action requested by an agency. An agency should state its disagreements with the Notice of Deficiency which may include cost-benefit factors, the amount of the charge, and other items.
(c) An agency must state what action it requests in its appeal. An agency may request that the Notice of Deficiency be completely overturned for cost-benefit or other considerations. Alternatively, an agency may request a reduced charge, deferral of the charge, an alternative solution to cash management improvement, or a combination of these actions.
(d) Appeals Board. The Commissioner will refer the appeal to an Appeals Board. The Appeals Board will consist of three members—two permanent members and one temporary member. The permanent members will be the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, and the Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance, of the Service. The temporary board member will be a cash management official from an agency other than the agency appealing the Notice of Deficiency. The Board will be convened on an as-needed basis. The order of agency assignment to the Board will be published by Treasury in Volume I, Chapter 6-8000 of the TFM. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, the Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance, and the designated agency cash management official may delegate their responsibility to a staff subordinate having sufficient experience in cash management matters. The Assistant Commissioner's designee may be from any area other than that which issued the Notice of Deficiency.
Appeals Board.
The Commissioner will refer the appeal to an Appeals Board. The Appeals Board will consist of three members—two permanent members and one temporary member. The permanent members will be the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, and the Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance, of the Service. The temporary board member will be a cash management official from an agency other than the agency appealing the Notice of Deficiency. The Board will be convened on an as-needed basis. The order of agency assignment to the Board will be published by Treasury in Volume I, Chapter 6-8000 of the TFM. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Department of the Treasury, the Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance, and the designated agency cash management official may delegate their responsibility to a staff subordinate having sufficient experience in cash management matters. The Assistant Commissioner's designee may be from any area other than that which issued the Notice of Deficiency.
(e) Appeal review process. The Appeals Board will review the Notice of Deficiency, any additional information submitted by the Service, and the written appeal from an agency. Based on this review, the Board may decide additional investigation is required. The Board may request an agency and/or the Service to meet with the Board as part of the review process.
Appeal review process.
The Appeals Board will review the Notice of Deficiency, any additional information submitted by the Service, and the written appeal from an agency. Based on this review, the Board may decide additional investigation is required. The Board may request an agency and/or the Service to meet with the Board as part of the review process.
(f) Appeal finding. A written majority decision will be rendered by the Appeals Board within 30 days of receipt of the appeal. The Board may extend this period for an additional period, not to exceed 30 days, if required. The Appeals Board will notify the Commissioner and the agency of the decision. The decision of the Board whether to uphold the Notice of Deficiency, to overturn the Notice of Deficiency, or to mandate some other action will be stated in the finding. Other action mandated may include a reduced charge, a deferral of the charge, an alternate solution to cash management improvement, or a combination of these actions. The basis of the decision, the amount of the charge, and the effective date of the charge will be stated in the finding. The effective date of the charge may be retroactive to the date indicated in the Notice of Deficiency.
Appeal finding.
A written majority decision will be rendered by the Appeals Board within 30 days of receipt of the appeal. The Board may extend this period for an additional period, not to exceed 30 days, if required. The Appeals Board will notify the Commissioner and the agency of the decision. The decision of the Board whether to uphold the Notice of Deficiency, to overturn the Notice of Deficiency, or to mandate some other action will be stated in the finding. Other action mandated may include a reduced charge, a deferral of the charge, an alternate solution to cash management improvement, or a combination of these actions. The basis of the decision, the amount of the charge, and the effective date of the charge will be stated in the finding. The effective date of the charge may be retroactive to the date indicated in the Notice of Deficiency.
(g) Any terms related to charge deferral shall be stated; the Service and an agency will be required to submit evidence of compliance to such terms at a future specified date. At this future time, the Appeals Board will review the evidence of compliance. Based on this evidence, the Board will decide whether to impose a charge.

§ 206.9   Charges.

(a) Within 30 days of the effective date of the charge or the appeals decision, an agency must submit appropriate accounting information to the Service's Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance. The charge will be calculated following procedures outlined in I TFM 6-8000, and will be assessed for each month that noncompliance continues.
(b) Collection noncompliance. In the case of cash management collection noncompliance, an agency will absorb the charge from amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to carry out the program to which the collections relate. Charges collected from an executive agency in the case of cash management collection noncompliance will be deposited in the Cash Management Improvements Fund as outlined in § 206.10.
Collection noncompliance.
In the case of cash management collection noncompliance, an agency will absorb the charge from amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to carry out the program to which the collections relate. Charges collected from an executive agency in the case of cash management collection noncompliance will be deposited in the Cash Management Improvements Fund as outlined in § 206.10.
(c) Payment noncompliance. [Reserved]
Payment noncompliance.
[Reserved]
(d) If an agency does not voluntarily pay the charge assessed under § 206.9(a), the Service will debit the appropriate account automatically. By failing to pay voluntarily the charges as required by the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, an agency will be deemed to authorize the automatic debit to its account.
(e) The Commissioner will formally terminate the charge when the Commissioner has determined that an agency has complied. In addition, on an annual basis, the Commissioner will review an agency's performance and calculation of the charge, and will notify an agency in writing of any changes to the amount being charged.

§ 206.10   Operation of and payments from the Cash Management Improvements Fund.

(a) The Cash Management Improvements Fund (Fund) will be operated as a revolving fund by the Service. Charges assessed under § 206.9(a) for cash management collection noncompliance will be deposited into the Fund according to the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984. The Service will also disburse any payments from the Fund based on projects selected by a project selection and approval committee.
(b) Committee composition. The committee will consist of three members—two permanent members and one temporary member. The permanent members will be the Commissioner and the Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance, of the Service. The temporary committee member will be a cash management official from an agency other than an agency being considered for funds. The order of agency assignment to the Committee will be published in a TFM Bulletin, when funds are first deposited to the Fund. Decisions of the project selection and approval committee cannot be appealed. Agencies will be notified of any available amounts in the Fund and requirements to apply for such monies through a TFM bulletin.
Committee composition.
The committee will consist of three members—two permanent members and one temporary member. The permanent members will be the Commissioner and the Assistant Commissioner, Federal Finance, of the Service. The temporary committee member will be a cash management official from an agency other than an agency being considered for funds. The order of agency assignment to the Committee will be published in a TFM Bulletin, when funds are first deposited to the Fund. Decisions of the project selection and approval committee cannot be appealed. Agencies will be notified of any available amounts in the Fund and requirements to apply for such monies through a TFM bulletin.
(c) As provided by 31 U.S.C. 3720, sums in the Fund will be available without fiscal year limitation for the payment of expenses incurred in developing improved methods of collection and deposit and the expenses incurred in carrying out collections and deposits using such methods, including the costs of personal services and the costs of the lease or purchase of equipment and operating facilities.
(d) In addition to all reports required by law and regulation, for each fiscal year during which there is a balance in Fund, the Service will prepare and publish, by the 60th day following the close of the fiscal year, a full report on payments, receipts, disbursements, balances of the Fund, and full disclosure on projects financed by the Fund.

PART 208—MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL AGENCY DISBURSEMENTS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 90, 265, 266, 1767, 1789a; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3122, 3301, 3302, 3303, 3321, 3325, 3327, 3328, 3332, 3335, 3336, 6503.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 90, 265, 266, 1767, 1789a; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3122, 3301, 3302, 3303, 3321, 3325, 3327, 3328, 3332, 3335, 3336, 6503.
[Source:85 FR 25291, May 1, 2020, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
85 FR 25291, May 1, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

§ 208.1   Scope and application.

This part applies to all Federal payments made by an agency. Except as specified in § 208.4, this part requires payments, other than payments made under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, to be made by electronic funds transfer.

§ 208.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:
Agency means any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government, or a corporation owned or controlled by the Government of the United States.
Agency
means any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government, or a corporation owned or controlled by the Government of the United States.
Authorized payment agent means any individual or entity that is appointed or otherwise selected as a representative payee or fiduciary, under regulations of the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Railroad Retirement Board, or other agency making Federal payments, to act on behalf of an individual entitled to a Federal payment.
Authorized payment agent
means any individual or entity that is appointed or otherwise selected as a representative payee or fiduciary, under regulations of the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Railroad Retirement Board, or other agency making Federal payments, to act on behalf of an individual entitled to a Federal payment.
Direct Express® card means the prepaid debit card issued to recipients of Federal benefits by a Financial Agent pursuant to requirements established by Treasury.
Direct Express® card
means the prepaid debit card issued to recipients of Federal benefits by a Financial Agent pursuant to requirements established by Treasury.
Disbursement means, in the context of payments delivered to Treasury-sponsored accounts, the performance of the following duties by a Financial Agent acting as agent of the United States:
Disbursement
means, in the context of payments delivered to Treasury-sponsored accounts, the performance of the following duties by a Financial Agent acting as agent of the United States:
(1) The establishment of an account for the recipient that meets the requirements of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Administration Board for deposit or share insurance;
(2) The maintenance of such an account;
(3) The receipt of Federal payments through the Automated Clearing House system or other electronic means and crediting of Federal payments to the account; and
(4) The provision of recipient access to funds in the account on the terms specified by Treasury.
Electronic benefits transfer (EBT) means the provision of Federal benefit, wage, salary, and retirement payments electronically, through disbursement by a financial institution acting as a Financial Agent. For purposes of this part and Public Law 104-208, EBT includes, but is not limited to, disbursement through a Treasury-sponsored account or a Federal/State EBT program.
Electronic benefits transfer (EBT)
means the provision of Federal benefit, wage, salary, and retirement payments electronically, through disbursement by a financial institution acting as a Financial Agent. For purposes of this part and Public Law 104-208, EBT includes, but is not limited to, disbursement through a Treasury-sponsored account or a Federal/State EBT program.
Electronic funds transfer means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by cash, check, or similar paper instrument that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an account. The term includes, but is not limited to, Automated Clearing House transfers, Fedwire transfers, and transfers made at automated teller machines and point-of-sale terminals. For purposes of this part only, the term electronic funds transfer includes a credit card transaction.
Electronic funds transfer
means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by cash, check, or similar paper instrument that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape, for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit an account. The term includes, but is not limited to, Automated Clearing House transfers, Fedwire transfers, and transfers made at automated teller machines and point-of-sale terminals. For purposes of this part only, the term electronic funds transfer includes a credit card transaction.
Federal payment means any payment made by an agency. The term includes, but is not limited to:
Federal payment
means any payment made by an agency. The term includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Federal wage, salary, and retirement payments;
(2) Vendor and expense reimbursement payments;
(3) Benefit payments;
(4) Miscellaneous payments including, but not limited to: Interagency payments; grants; loans; fees; principal, interest, and other payments related to U.S. marketable and nonmarketable securities; overpayment reimbursements; and payments under Federal insurance or guarantee programs for loans; and
(5) Payments under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C.).
Federal/State EBT program means any program that provides access to Federal benefit, wage, salary, and retirement payments and to State-administered benefits through a single delivery system and in which Treasury designates a Financial Agent to disburse the Federal payments.
Federal/State EBT program
means any program that provides access to Federal benefit, wage, salary, and retirement payments and to State-administered benefits through a single delivery system and in which Treasury designates a Financial Agent to disburse the Federal payments.
Federally-insured financial institution means any financial institution, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under 12 U.S.C. Chapter 16 or, in the case of a credit union, the member accounts of which are insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund under 12 U.S.C. Chapter 14, Subchapter II.
Federally-insured financial institution
means any financial institution, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under 12 U.S.C. Chapter 16 or, in the case of a credit union, the member accounts of which are insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund under 12 U.S.C. Chapter 14, Subchapter II.
Financial Agent means a financial institution that has been designated by Treasury as a Financial Agent for the provision of electronic funds transfer or EBT services under any provision of Federal law, including 12 U.S.C. 90, 265, 266, 1767, and 1789a, and 31 U.S.C. 3122 and 3303, as amended by the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997, Section 664, Public Law 104-208.
Financial Agent
means a financial institution that has been designated by Treasury as a Financial Agent for the provision of electronic funds transfer or EBT services under any provision of Federal law, including 12 U.S.C. 90, 265, 266, 1767, and 1789a, and 31 U.S.C. 3122 and 3303, as amended by the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Act, 1997, Section 664, Public Law 104-208.
Financial institution means:
Financial institution
means:
(1) Any insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(3) Any savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(4) Any insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752) or any credit union which is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union under section 201 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1781);
(5) Any savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) which is an insured depository institution (as defined in such Act) (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.); and
et seq.
) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
); and
(6) Any agency or branch of a foreign bank as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101).
Individual means a natural person.
Individual
means a natural person.
Recipient means an individual, corporation, or other public or private entity that is authorized to receive a Federal payment from an agency.
Recipient
means an individual, corporation, or other public or private entity that is authorized to receive a Federal payment from an agency.
Secretary means Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means Secretary of the Treasury.
Treasury means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury-sponsored account means a Direct Express card account, a U.S. Debit Card account, or another account established pursuant to § 208.5 or § 208.11.
Treasury-sponsored account
means a Direct Express card account, a U.S. Debit Card account, or another account established pursuant to § 208.5 or § 208.11.
U.S. Debit Card means the prepaid debit card issued to recipients of certain Federal payments by a Financial Agent pursuant to requirements established by Treasury.
U.S. Debit Card
means the prepaid debit card issued to recipients of certain Federal payments by a Financial Agent pursuant to requirements established by Treasury.

§ 208.3   Payment by electronic funds transfer.

Subject to § 208.4, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, all Federal payments made by an agency shall be made by electronic funds transfer. This requirement does not apply to payments under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

§ 208.4   Waivers.

(a) Payment by electronic funds transfer is not required in the following cases:
(1) Where an individual:
(i) Was born prior to May 1, 1921, and was receiving payment by check on March 1, 2013;
(ii) Receives a type of payment for which Treasury does not offer delivery to a Treasury-sponsored account. In such cases, those payments are not required to be made by electronic funds transfer, unless and until such payments become eligible for deposit to a Treasury-sponsored account. However, if Treasury provides an agency with an option to begin delivering a type of Federal benefit payment to a Treasury-sponsored account, the agency must file a waiver request with Treasury to make Federal benefit payments of that type by any means other than by electronic funds transfer;
(iii) Is ineligible for a Treasury-sponsored account because of suspension or cancellation of the individual's Treasury-sponsored account by the Financial Agent;
(iv) Has filed a waiver request with Treasury certifying that payment by electronic funds transfer would impose a hardship because of the individual's inability to manage an account at a financial institution or a Treasury-sponsored account due to a mental impairment, and Treasury has not rejected the request; or
(v) Has filed a waiver request with Treasury certifying that payment by electronic funds transfer would impose a hardship because of the individual's inability to manage an account at a financial institution or a Treasury-sponsored account due to the individual living in a remote geographic location lacking the infrastructure to support electronic financial transactions, and Treasury has not rejected the request;
(2) Where the political, financial, or communications infrastructure in a foreign country does not support payment by electronic funds transfer;
(3) Where the payment is in a foreign currency and Treasury does not support electronic payment in that currency.
(4) Where the payment is to a recipient within an area designated by the President or an authorized agency administrator as a disaster area. This waiver is limited to payments made within 120 days after the disaster is declared. An agency must file a waiver request with Treasury (which must be approved by Treasury) to extend this waiver beyond 120 days after the disaster is declared.
(5) Where either:
(i) A military operation is designated by the Secretary of Defense in which uniformed services undertake military actions against an enemy; or
(ii) A call or order to, or retention on, active duty of members of the uniformed services is made during a war or national emergency declared by the President or Congress;
(6) Where a threat may be posed to national security, the life or physical safety of any individual may be endangered, or a law enforcement action may be compromised;
(7) Where the agency does not expect to make multiple payments to the same recipient within a one-year period on a regular, recurring basis but only if the payments are made to an individual or a small business concern where “small business concern” has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Small Business Act at 15 U.S.C. 632 and its implementing regulations; and
(8) Where an agency's need for goods and services is of such unusual and compelling urgency that the Government would be seriously injured unless payment is made by a method other than electronic funds transfer; or, where there is only one source for goods or services and the Government would be seriously injured unless payment is made by a method other than electronic funds transfer. An agency must file a waiver request with Treasury (which must be approved by Treasury) to utilize this waiver.
(b) An individual who requests a waiver under paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (v) or an agency who requests a waiver under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii), (a)(4), or (a)(8) of this section shall provide, in writing, to Treasury a certification supporting that request, in such form that Treasury may prescribe. The individual shall attest to the certification before a notary public, or otherwise file the certification in such form that Treasury may prescribe. Treasury reserves the right to reject any waiver request it receives.
(c) If application of an agency's waiver, together with any waiver request previously granted under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii), (a)(4), or (a)(8), would, in Treasury's determination, lead to the agency initiating an unusually large number or proportion of payments by means other than electronic funds transfer, Treasury reserves the right to nullify the waiver in this class of cases and require the agency to work with Treasury to identify and implement ways to make the payments by electronic funds transfer.
[[85 FR 25291, May 1, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 12960, Feb. 21, 2024; 89 FR 18543, Mar. 22, 2024]]

§ 208.5   Accounts for disbursement of Federal payments.

Treasury may designate a Financial Agent to establish and administer Treasury-sponsored accounts for individuals for the disbursement of Federal payments, including benefit, retirement, salary, miscellaneous, vendor, expense reimbursement and tax payments. Such accounts may be established upon terms and conditions that the Secretary considers appropriate or necessary and shall be made available at a reasonable cost and with the same consumer protections provided to other account holders at the financial institution. Treasury may deliver payments to such accounts and the maintenance of accounts and the provision of account-related services under this section shall constitute reasonable duties of a Financial Agent of the United States.

§ 208.6   Availability of Treasury-sponsored accounts.

An individual who receives a Federal payment shall be eligible to open a Treasury-sponsored account under terms and conditions established by Treasury.

§ 208.7   Agency responsibilities.

(a) An agency shall put into place procedures that allow recipients to provide the information necessary for the delivery of payments to the recipient by electronic funds transfer to an account at the recipient's financial institution or a Treasury-sponsored account.
(b) Upon request from Treasury, an agency shall provide Treasury with a list of the employer identification numbers (EINs) assigned to the agency that the agency has used to make or receive a Federal intragovernmental payment during the 12- month period preceding the request from Treasury as well as a list of the EINs for all Federal agencies to whom the agency has made a Federal intragovernmental payment during the same 12-month period.
[[89 FR 12960, Feb. 21, 2024]]

§ 208.8   Recipient responsibilities.

Each recipient who is required to receive payment by electronic funds transfer shall provide the information necessary to effect payment by electronic funds transfer. For recipients who do not designate a bank account for the receipt of payments, Treasury may disburse payments to a Treasury-sponsored account or to an account to which the recipient is receiving other Federal payments.

§ 208.9   Compliance.

(a) Treasury will monitor agencies' compliance with this part. Treasury may require agencies to provide information about their progress in converting payments to electronic funds transfer.
(b) If an agency fails to make payment by electronic funds transfer as prescribed under this part, Treasury will consider that payment to be not timely pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3335, as electronic funds transfer payments are processed, disbursed, and settled more quickly than checks and, accordingly, Treasury may assess a charge to the agency pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3335.
[[85 FR 25291, May 1, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 12960, Feb. 21, 2024]]

§ 208.10   Reservation of rights.

The Secretary reserves the right, in the Secretary's discretion, to waive any provision(s) of this part in any case or class of cases.

§ 208.11   Accounts for disaster victims.

Treasury may establish and administer accounts at any financial institution designated as a Financial Agent for disaster victims in order to allow for the delivery by electronic funds transfer of one or more Federal payments. Such accounts may be established upon terms and conditions that the Secretary considers appropriate or necessary in light of the circumstances. Treasury may deliver payments to these accounts notwithstanding any other payment instructions from the recipient and without regard to the requirements of §§ 208.4 and 208.7 and § 210.5 of this chapter. For purposes of this section, “disaster victim” means an individual or entity located within an emergency area, or an individual or entity that has relocated or been displaced from an emergency area as a result of a major disaster or emergency. “Emergency area” means a geographical area in which there exists an emergency or disaster declared by the President pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.). The maintenance of accounts and the provision of account-related services under this section shall constitute reasonable duties of a Financial Agent of the United States.
et seq.
) or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.
). The maintenance of accounts and the provision of account-related services under this section shall constitute reasonable duties of a Financial Agent of the United States.

PART 210—FEDERAL GOVERNMENT PARTICIPATION IN THE AUTOMATED CLEARING HOUSE

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 5525; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3301, 3302, 3321, 3332, 3335, and 3720.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5525; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3301, 3302, 3321, 3332, 3335, and 3720.
[Source:64 FR 17487, Apr. 9, 1999, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
64 FR 17487, Apr. 9, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

§ 210.1   Scope; relation to other regulations.

This part governs all entries and entry data originated or received by an agency through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. This part also governs reclamations of benefit payments.
(a) Federal tax payments received by the Federal Government through the ACH system that are governed by part 203 of this title shall not be subject to any provision of this part that is inconsistent with part 203.
(b) ACH credit or debit entries for the purchase of, or payment of principal and interest on, United States securities that are governed by part 370 of this title shall not be subject to any provision of this part that is inconsistent with part 370.

§ 210.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply. Any term that is not defined in this part shall have the meaning set forth in the ACH Rules.
(a) ACH Rules means the 2021 Operating Rules & Guidelines, including Supplement #1-2021, (both incorporated by reference, see § 210.3(b)) published by Nacha, a national association of regional member clearing house associations, ACH Operators, and participating financial institutions located in the United States.
ACH Rules
means the 2021 Operating Rules & Guidelines, including Supplement #1-2021, (both incorporated by reference, see § 210.3(b)) published by Nacha, a national association of regional member clearing house associations, ACH Operators, and participating financial institutions located in the United States.
(b) Actual or constructive knowledge, when used in reference to an RDFI's or agency's knowledge of the death or incapacity of a recipient or death of a beneficiary, means that the RDFI or agency received information, by whatever means, of the death or incapacity and has had a reasonable opportunity to act on such information or that the RDFI or agency would have learned of the death or incapacity if it had followed commercially reasonable business practices. For purposes of subpart B of this part, an agency is presumed to have constructive knowledge of death or incapacity at the time it stops certifying recurring payments to a recipient if the agency:
Actual or constructive knowledge,
when used in reference to an RDFI's or agency's knowledge of the death or incapacity of a recipient or death of a beneficiary, means that the RDFI or agency received information, by whatever means, of the death or incapacity and has had a reasonable opportunity to act on such information or that the RDFI or agency would have learned of the death or incapacity if it had followed commercially reasonable business practices. For purposes of subpart B of this part, an agency is presumed to have constructive knowledge of death or incapacity at the time it stops certifying recurring payments to a recipient if the agency:
(1) Does not re-initiate payments to the recipient; and
(2) Subsequently initiates a reclamation for one or more payments made to the recipient.
(c) Agency means any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government, or a corporation owned or controlled by the Government of the United States. The term agency does not include a Federal Reserve Bank.
Agency
means any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government, or a corporation owned or controlled by the Government of the United States. The term agency does not include a Federal Reserve Bank.
(d) Applicable ACH Rules means the ACH Rules, except:
Applicable ACH Rules
means the ACH Rules, except:
(1) Subsections 1.2.2, 1.2.3, 1.2.4, 1.2.5 and 1.2.6; Appendix Seven; Appendix Eight; and Appendix Nine (governing the enforcement of the ACH Rules and claims for compensation);
(2) Section 1.14 (governing the Participating DFI Contact registry);
(3) Section 2.10 and section 3.6 (governing the reclamation of benefit payments);
(4) The requirement in Appendix Three that the Effective Entry Date of a credit entry be no more than two Banking Days following the date of processing by the Originating ACH Operator (see definition of “Effective Entry Date” in Appendix Three);
(5) Section 2.2 (setting forth ODFI obligations to enter into agreements with, and perform risk management relating to, Originators and Third-Party Senders) and section 1.6 (Security Requirements);
(6) Section 2.17.2.2-2.17.2.6 (requiring reduction of high rates of entries returned as unauthorized);
(7) The requirements of Section 2.5.8 (International ACH Transactions) shall not apply to entries representing the payment of a Federal tax obligation by a taxpayer; and
(8) Until March 19, 2022, the requirement of section 2.5.17.4(a) that the Originator utilize a fraudulent transaction detection system that validates an account to be debited for the first use of such account number and for any subsequent change(s) to the account number.
(e) Authorized payment agent means any individual or entity that is appointed or otherwise selected as a representative payee or fiduciary, under regulations of the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Railroad Retirement Board, or other agency making Federal payments, to act on behalf of an individual entitled to a Federal payment.
Authorized payment agent
means any individual or entity that is appointed or otherwise selected as a representative payee or fiduciary, under regulations of the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Railroad Retirement Board, or other agency making Federal payments, to act on behalf of an individual entitled to a Federal payment.
(f) Automated Clearing House or ACH means a funds transfer system governed by the ACH Rules which provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participating financial institutions.
Automated Clearing House or ACH
means a funds transfer system governed by the ACH Rules which provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participating financial institutions.
(g) Beneficiary means a natural person other than a recipient who is entitled to receive the benefit of all or part of a benefit payment.
Beneficiary
means a natural person other than a recipient who is entitled to receive the benefit of all or part of a benefit payment.
(h) Benefit payment is a payment for a Federal entitlement program or for an annuity, including, but not limited to, payments for Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Black Lung, Civil Service Retirement, Railroad Retirement annuity and Railroad Unemployment and Sickness benefits, Department of Veterans Affairs Compensation and Pension, and Worker's Compensation.
Benefit payment
is a payment for a Federal entitlement program or for an annuity, including, but not limited to, payments for Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Black Lung, Civil Service Retirement, Railroad Retirement annuity and Railroad Unemployment and Sickness benefits, Department of Veterans Affairs Compensation and Pension, and Worker's Compensation.
(i) Federal payment means any payment made by an agency. The term includes, but is not limited to:
Federal payment
means any payment made by an agency. The term includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Federal wage, salary, and retirement payments;
(2) Vendor and expense reimbursement payments;
(3) Benefit payments; and
(4) Miscellaneous payments including, but not limited to, interagency payments; grants; loans; fees; principal, interest, and other payments related to United States marketable and nonmarketable securities; overpayment reimbursements; and payments under Federal insurance or guarantee programs for loans.
(j)(1) Financial institution means:
Financial institution
means:
(i) Any insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to apply to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(ii) Any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to apply to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(iii) Any savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to apply to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(iv) Any insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752) or any credit union which is eligible to apply to become an insured credit union pursuant to section 201 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1781);
(v) Any savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) which is an insured depository institution as defined in such Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.); and
et seq.
) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
); and
(vi) Any agency or branch of a foreign bank as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101).
(2) In this part, a financial institution may be referred to as an Originating Depository Financial Institution (ODFI) if it transmits entries to its ACH Operator for transmittal to a Receiving Depository Financial Institution (RDFI), or it may be referred to as an RDFI if it receives entries from its ACH Operator for debit or credit to the accounts of its customers.
(k) Government entry means an ACH credit or debit entry or entry data originated or received by an agency.
Government entry
means an ACH credit or debit entry or entry data originated or received by an agency.
(l) Green Book means the manual issued by the Service which provides financial institutions with procedures and guidelines for processing Government entries.
Green Book
means the manual issued by the Service which provides financial institutions with procedures and guidelines for processing Government entries.
(m) Notice of reclamation means notice sent by electronic, paper, or other means by the Federal Government to an RDFI which identifies the benefit payments that should have been returned by the RDFI because of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or death of a beneficiary.
Notice of reclamation
means notice sent by electronic, paper, or other means by the Federal Government to an RDFI which identifies the benefit payments that should have been returned by the RDFI because of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or death of a beneficiary.
(n) Outstanding total means the sum of all benefit payments received by an RDFI from an agency after the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary, minus any amount returned to, or recovered by, the Federal Government.
Outstanding total
means the sum of all benefit payments received by an RDFI from an agency after the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary, minus any amount returned to, or recovered by, the Federal Government.
(o) Recipient means a natural person, corporation, or other public or private entity that is authorized to receive a Federal payment from an agency.
Recipient
means a natural person, corporation, or other public or private entity that is authorized to receive a Federal payment from an agency.
(p) Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury.
Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury.
(q) Treasury means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
(r) Treasury Financial Manual means the manual issued by the Service containing procedures to be observed by all agencies and Federal Reserve Banks with respect to central accounting, financial reporting, and other Federal Government-wide fiscal responsibilities of the Treasury.
Treasury Financial Manual
means the manual issued by the Service containing procedures to be observed by all agencies and Federal Reserve Banks with respect to central accounting, financial reporting, and other Federal Government-wide fiscal responsibilities of the Treasury.
[[64 FR 17478, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 18869, Apr. 7, 2000; 66 FR 10580, Feb. 16, 2001; 67 FR 17902, Apr. 11, 2002; 68 FR 33829, June 5, 2003; 70 FR 67366, Nov. 7, 2005; 73 FR 52584, Sept. 10, 2008; 76 FR 59030, Sept. 23, 2011; 79 FR 42980, July 24, 2014; 82 FR 42608, Sept. 11, 2017; 85 FR 15720, Mar. 19, 2020; 87 FR 46, Jan. 3, 2022]]

§ 210.3   Governing law.

(a) Federal law. The rights and obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to all Government entries, and the rights of any person or recipient against the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks in connection with any Government entry, are governed by this part, which has the force and effect of Federal law.
Federal law.
The rights and obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to all Government entries, and the rights of any person or recipient against the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks in connection with any Government entry, are governed by this part, which has the force and effect of Federal law.
(b) Incorporation by reference. Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service must publish a document in the Federal Register and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 401 14th Street SW, Room 400A, Washington, DC 20227, ph. (202) 874-6680 and from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email fr.inspection@nara.gov or go to www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service must publish a document in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 401 14th Street SW, Room 400A, Washington, DC 20227, ph. (202) 874-6680 and from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
(1) Nacha, 2550 Wasser Terrace, Suite 400, Herndon, Virginia 20171, tel. 703-561-1100, info@nacha.org.
info@nacha.org.
(i) 2021 Nacha Operating Rules & Guidelines: The Guide to the Rules Governing the ACH Network, copyright 2021; into § 210.2.
(ii) Supplement #1-2021, Notice of Amendment to the 2021 Nacha Operating Rules, dated April 8, 2021; into § 210.2.
(2) [Reserved]
(c) Application of this part. Any person or entity that originates or receives a Government entry agrees to be bound by this part and to comply with all instructions and procedures issued by the Service under this part, including the Treasury Financial Manual and the Green Book. The Treasury Financial Manual is available for downloading at the Service's web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/ or by calling (202) 874-9940 or writing the Directives Management Branch, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 3700 East West Highway, Room 500C, Hyattsville, MD 20782. The Green Book is available for downloading at the Service's web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/fmsnews.html or by calling (202) 874-6540 or writing the Product Promotion Division, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street, SW., Room 309, Washington, DC 20227.
Application of this part.
Any person or entity that originates or receives a Government entry agrees to be bound by this part and to comply with all instructions and procedures issued by the Service under this part, including the Treasury Financial Manual and the Green Book. The Treasury Financial Manual is available for downloading at the Service's web site at
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/
or by calling (202) 874-9940 or writing the Directives Management Branch, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 3700 East West Highway, Room 500C, Hyattsville, MD 20782. The Green Book is available for downloading at the Service's web site at
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/fmsnews.html
or by calling (202) 874-6540 or writing the Product Promotion Division, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street, SW., Room 309, Washington, DC 20227.
[[64 FR 17478, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 18869, Apr. 7, 2000; 66 FR 10580, Feb. 16, 2001; 67 FR 17903, Apr. 11, 2002; 68 FR 33830, June 5, 2003; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 70 FR 67367, Nov. 7, 2005; 73 FR 52584, Sept. 10, 2008; 76 FR 59030, Sept. 23, 2011; 79 FR 42980, July 24, 2014; 82 FR 42608, Sept. 11, 2017; 85 FR 15721, Mar. 19, 2020; 87 FR 46, Jan. 3, 2022]]

Subpart A—General


§ 210.4   Authorizations and revocations of authorizations.

(a) Requirements for authorization. Each debit and credit entry subject to this part shall be authorized in accordance with the applicable ACH Rules and the following additional requirements:
Requirements for authorization.
Each debit and credit entry subject to this part shall be authorized in accordance with the applicable ACH Rules and the following additional requirements:
(1) The agency or the RDFI that accepts the recipient's authorization shall verify the identity of the recipient and, in the case of a written authorization requiring the recipient's signature, the validity of the recipient's signature.
(2) Unless authorized in writing, or similarly authenticated, by an agency, no person or entity shall initiate or transmit a debit entry to that agency, other than a reversal of a credit entry previously sent to the agency.
(b) Terms of authorizations. By executing an authorization for an agency to initiate entries, a recipient agrees:
Terms of authorizations.
By executing an authorization for an agency to initiate entries, a recipient agrees:
(1) To the provisions of this part;
(2) To provide accurate information;
(3) To verify the recipient's identity to the satisfaction of the RDFI or agency, whichever has accepted the authorization;
(4) That any new authorization inconsistent with a previous authorization shall supersede the previous authorization; and
(5) That the Federal Government may reverse any duplicate or erroneous entry or file as provided in § 210.6(f) of this part.
(c) Termination and revocation of authorizations. An authorization shall remain valid until it is terminated or revoked by:
Termination and revocation of authorizations.
An authorization shall remain valid until it is terminated or revoked by:
(1) With respect to a recipient of benefit payments, a change in the recipient's ownership of the deposit account as reflected in the deposit account records, including the removal of the name of the recipient, the addition of a power of attorney, or any action which alters the interest of the recipient;
(2) The death or legal incapacity of a recipient of benefit payments or the death of a beneficiary;
(3) The closing of the recipient's account at the RDFI by the recipient or by the RDFI. With respect to a recipient of benefit payments, if an RDFI closes an account to which benefit payments currently are being sent, it shall provide 30 calendar days written notice to the recipient prior to closing the account, except in cases of fraud; or
(4) The RDFI's insolvency, closure by any state or Federal regulatory authority or by corporate action, or the appointment of a receiver, conservator, or liquidator for the RDFI. In any such event, the authorization shall remain valid if a successor is named. The Federal Government may temporarily transfer authorizations to a consenting RDFI. The transfer is valid until either a new authorization is executed by the recipient, or 120 calendar days have elapsed since the insolvency, closure, or appointment, whichever occurs first.

§ 210.5   Account requirements for Federal payments.

(a) Notwithstanding ACH Rules 2.1.2, 4.1.3, and Appendix Two, section 2.2 (listing general ledger and loan accounts as permissible transaction codes), an ACH credit entry representing a Federal payment other than a vendor payment shall be deposited into a deposit account at a financial institution. For all payments other than vendor payments, the account at the financial institution shall be in the name of the recipient, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)(1) Where an authorized payment agent has been selected, the Federal payment shall be deposited into an account titled in accordance with the regulations governing the authorized payment agent.
(2) Where a Federal payment is to be deposited into an investment account established through a securities broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or an investment account established through an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or its transfer agent, such payment may be deposited into an account designated by such broker or dealer, investment company, or transfer agent.
(3) Where an agency is issuing part or all of an employee's travel reimbursement payment to the official travel card issuing bank, as authorized or required by Office of Management and Budget guidance or the Federal Travel Regulation, the ACH credit entry representing the payment may be deposited to the account of the travel card issuing bank for credit to the employee's travel card account at the bank.
(4) Where a Federal payment is to be disbursed through a debit card, stored value card, prepaid card or similar payment card program established by the Service, the Federal payment may be deposited to an account at a financial institution designated by the Service as a financial or fiscal agent. The account title, access terms and other account provisions may be specified by the Service.
(5)(i) Where a Federal payment is to be deposited to a prepaid account that meets the following requirements:
(A) The account is held at an insured financial institution;
(B) The account is set up to meet the requirements for pass-through deposit or share insurance such that the funds accessible through the card are insured for the benefit of the recipient by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund in accordance with applicable law (12 CFR part 330 or 12 CFR part 745);
(C) The account is not attached to a line of credit or loan agreement under which repayment from the account is triggered upon delivery of the Federal payments; and
(D) The issuer of the account complies with all of the requirements, and provides the holder of the account with all of the consumer protections, that apply to a prepaid account under the rules implementing the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act.
(ii) No person or entity may issue a prepaid account that receives Federal payments in violation of this paragraph (b)(5), and no financial institution may maintain a prepaid account that receives Federal payments if the issuer violates this paragraph (b)(5).
(iii) For the purposes of this paragraph (b)(5), the term—
(A) “Prepaid account” means a prepaid account as defined for purposes of regulations implementing the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, as amended; and
(B) “Issuer” means a person or entity that issues a prepaid account.
(6) Where a Federal payment is disbursed to a resident of a nursing facility, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1396r, the payment may be deposited into a resident trust or patient fund account established by the nursing facility pursuant to requirements under Federal law relating to the protection of such funds.
(7) Where a Federal payment is disbursed to a member of a religious order who has taken a vow of poverty, the payment may be deposited to an account established by the religious order. As used in this paragraph, the phrase “member of a religious order who has taken a vow of poverty” is defined as it would be by the Internal Revenue Service for Federal tax purposes.
(8) The Secretary of the Treasury may waive the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section in any case or class of cases.
[[64 FR 17478, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 18869, Apr. 7, 2000; 73 FR 52584, Sept. 10, 2008; 75 FR 80339, Dec. 22, 2010; 76 FR 59031, Sept. 23, 2011; 82 FR 42609, Sept. 11, 2017]]

§ 210.6   Agencies.

Notwithstanding any provision of the ACH Rules, including Subsections 2.4.5, 2.8.4, 4.3.5, 2.9.2, 3.2.2, and 3.13.3, agencies shall be subject to the obligations and liabilities set forth in this section in connection with Government entries.
(a) Receiving entries. An agency may receive ACH debit or credit entries only with the prior written authorization of the Service.
Receiving entries.
An agency may receive ACH debit or credit entries only with the prior written authorization of the Service.
(b) Liability to a recipient. An agency will be liable to the recipient for any loss sustained by the recipient as a result of the agency's failure to originate a credit or debit entry in accordance with this part. The agency's liability shall be limited to the amount of the entry(ies).
Liability to a recipient.
An agency will be liable to the recipient for any loss sustained by the recipient as a result of the agency's failure to originate a credit or debit entry in accordance with this part. The agency's liability shall be limited to the amount of the entry(ies).
(c) Liability to an originator. An agency will be liable to an Originator or an ODFI for any loss sustained by the originator or ODFI as a result of the agency's failure to credit an ACH entry to the agency's account in accordance with this part. The agency's liability shall be limited to the amount of the entry(ies).
Liability to an originator.
An agency will be liable to an Originator or an ODFI for any loss sustained by the originator or ODFI as a result of the agency's failure to credit an ACH entry to the agency's account in accordance with this part. The agency's liability shall be limited to the amount of the entry(ies).
(d) Liability to an RDFI or ACH association. Except as otherwise provided in this part, an agency will be liable to an RDFI for losses sustained in processing duplicate or erroneous credit and debit entries originated by the agency. An agency's liability shall be limited to the amount of the entry(ies), and shall be reduced by the amount of the loss resulting from the failure of the RDFI to exercise due diligence and follow standard commercial practices in processing the entry(ies). This section does not apply to credits received by an RDFI after the death or legal incapacity of a recipient of benefit payments or the death of a beneficiary as governed by subpart B of this part. An agency shall not be liable to any ACH association.
Liability to an RDFI or ACH association.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, an agency will be liable to an RDFI for losses sustained in processing duplicate or erroneous credit and debit entries originated by the agency. An agency's liability shall be limited to the amount of the entry(ies), and shall be reduced by the amount of the loss resulting from the failure of the RDFI to exercise due diligence and follow standard commercial practices in processing the entry(ies). This section does not apply to credits received by an RDFI after the death or legal incapacity of a recipient of benefit payments or the death of a beneficiary as governed by subpart B of this part. An agency shall not be liable to any ACH association.
(e) Acquittance of the agency. The final crediting of the amount of an entry to a recipient's account shall constitute full acquittance of the Federal Government.
Acquittance of the agency.
The final crediting of the amount of an entry to a recipient's account shall constitute full acquittance of the Federal Government.
(f) Reversals. An agency may reverse any duplicate or erroneous entry, and the Federal Government may reverse any duplicate or erroneous file. In initiating a reversal, an agency shall certify to the Service that the reversal complies with applicable law related to the recovery of the underlying payment. An agency that reverses an entry shall indemnify the RDFI as provided in the applicable ACH Rules, but the agency's liability shall be limited to the amount of the entry. If the Federal Government reverses a file, the Federal Government shall indemnify the RDFI as provided in the applicable ACH Rules, but the extent of such liability shall be limited to the amount of the entries comprising the duplicate or erroneous file. Reversals under this section shall comply with the time limitations set forth in the applicable ACH Rules.
Reversals.
An agency may reverse any duplicate or erroneous entry, and the Federal Government may reverse any duplicate or erroneous file. In initiating a reversal, an agency shall certify to the Service that the reversal complies with applicable law related to the recovery of the underlying payment. An agency that reverses an entry shall indemnify the RDFI as provided in the applicable ACH Rules, but the agency's liability shall be limited to the amount of the entry. If the Federal Government reverses a file, the Federal Government shall indemnify the RDFI as provided in the applicable ACH Rules, but the extent of such liability shall be limited to the amount of the entries comprising the duplicate or erroneous file. Reversals under this section shall comply with the time limitations set forth in the applicable ACH Rules.
(g) Point-of-purchase debit entries. An agency may originate a Point-of-Purchase (POP) entry using a check drawn on a consumer or business account and presented at a point-of-purchase. The requirements of the applicable ACH Rules, incorporated by reference, see § 210.3(b), shall be met for such an entry if the Receiver presents the check at a location where the agency has posted the notice required by the ACH Rules and has provided the Receiver with a copy of the notice.
Point-of-purchase debit entries.
An agency may originate a Point-of-Purchase (POP) entry using a check drawn on a consumer or business account and presented at a point-of-purchase. The requirements of the applicable ACH Rules, incorporated by reference, see § 210.3(b), shall be met for such an entry if the Receiver presents the check at a location where the agency has posted the notice required by the ACH Rules and has provided the Receiver with a copy of the notice.
(h) Return Fee Entry. An agency that has authority to collect returned item service fees may do so by originating a Return Fee Entry if the agency provides notice to the Receiver in accordance with the ACH Rules.
Return Fee Entry.
An agency that has authority to collect returned item service fees may do so by originating a Return Fee Entry if the agency provides notice to the Receiver in accordance with the ACH Rules.
[[82 FR 42609, Sept. 11, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 15721, Mar. 19, 2020; 87 FR 47, Jan. 3, 2022]]

§ 210.7   Federal Reserve Banks.

(a) Fiscal Agents. Each Federal Reserve Bank serves as Fiscal Agent of the Treasury in carrying out its duties as the Federal Government's ACH Operator under this part. As Fiscal Agent, each Federal Reserve Bank shall be responsible only to the Treasury and not to any other party for any loss resulting from the Federal Reserve Bank's action, notwithstanding Section 11.5 and Article 8 of the ACH Rules. Each Federal Reserve Bank may issue operating circulars not inconsistent with this part which shall be binding on financial institutions.
Fiscal Agents.
Each Federal Reserve Bank serves as Fiscal Agent of the Treasury in carrying out its duties as the Federal Government's ACH Operator under this part. As Fiscal Agent, each Federal Reserve Bank shall be responsible only to the Treasury and not to any other party for any loss resulting from the Federal Reserve Bank's action, notwithstanding Section 11.5 and Article 8 of the ACH Rules. Each Federal Reserve Bank may issue operating circulars not inconsistent with this part which shall be binding on financial institutions.
(b) Routing numbers. All routing numbers issued by a Federal Reserve Bank to an agency require the prior approval of the Service.
Routing numbers.
All routing numbers issued by a Federal Reserve Bank to an agency require the prior approval of the Service.

§ 210.8   Financial institutions.

(a) Status as a Treasury depositary. The origination or receipt of an entry subject to this part does not render a financial institution a Treasury depositary. A financial institution shall not advertise itself as a Treasury depositary on such basis.
Status as a Treasury depositary.
The origination or receipt of an entry subject to this part does not render a financial institution a Treasury depositary. A financial institution shall not advertise itself as a Treasury depositary on such basis.
(b) Liability. Notwithstanding ACH Rules Subsections 2.4.5, 2.8.4, 4.3.5, 2.9.2, 3.2.2, and 3.13.3, if the Federal Government sustains a loss as a result of a financial institution's failure to handle an entry in accordance with this part, the financial institution shall be liable to the Federal Government for the loss, up to the amount of the entry, except as otherwise provided in this section. A financial institution shall not be liable to any third party for any loss or damage resulting directly or indirectly from an agency's error or omission in originating an entry. Nothing in this section shall affect any obligation or liability of a financial institution under Regulation E, 12 CFR part 1005, or the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, 12 U.S.C. 1693 et seq.
Liability.
Notwithstanding ACH Rules Subsections 2.4.5, 2.8.4, 4.3.5, 2.9.2, 3.2.2, and 3.13.3, if the Federal Government sustains a loss as a result of a financial institution's failure to handle an entry in accordance with this part, the financial institution shall be liable to the Federal Government for the loss, up to the amount of the entry, except as otherwise provided in this section. A financial institution shall not be liable to any third party for any loss or damage resulting directly or indirectly from an agency's error or omission in originating an entry. Nothing in this section shall affect any obligation or liability of a financial institution under Regulation E, 12 CFR part 1005, or the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, 12 U.S.C. 1693
et seq.
(c) Acquittance of the financial institution. The final crediting of the correct amount of an entry received and processed by the Federal Reserve Bank and posted to the TGA shall constitute full acquittance of the ODFI and the originator for the amount of the entry. Full acquittance shall not occur if the entries do not balance, are incomplete, are incorrect, or are incapable of being processed. In the case of funds collected by an agency through origination of a debit entry, full acquittance shall not occur until the underlying payment becomes final.
Acquittance of the financial institution.
The final crediting of the correct amount of an entry received and processed by the Federal Reserve Bank and posted to the TGA shall constitute full acquittance of the ODFI and the originator for the amount of the entry. Full acquittance shall not occur if the entries do not balance, are incomplete, are incorrect, or are incapable of being processed. In the case of funds collected by an agency through origination of a debit entry, full acquittance shall not occur until the underlying payment becomes final.
(d) Notice of misdirected payment. If an RDFI becomes aware that an agency has originated an ACH credit entry to an account that is not owned by the payee whose name appears in the ACH payment information, the RDFI shall promptly notify the agency. An RDFI that originates a Notification of Change (NOC) entry with the correct account and/or Routing and Transit Number information, or returns the original ACH credit entry to the agency with an appropriate return reason code, shall be deemed to have satisfied this requirement.
Notice of misdirected payment.
If an RDFI becomes aware that an agency has originated an ACH credit entry to an account that is not owned by the payee whose name appears in the ACH payment information, the RDFI shall promptly notify the agency. An RDFI that originates a Notification of Change (NOC) entry with the correct account and/or Routing and Transit Number information, or returns the original ACH credit entry to the agency with an appropriate return reason code, shall be deemed to have satisfied this requirement.
[[64 FR 17487, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 13189, Mar. 19, 2004; 70 FR 67367, Nov. 7, 2005; 79 FR 42981, July 24, 2014; 79 FR 73841, Dec. 12, 2014; 82 FR 42609, Sept. 11, 2017]]

Subpart B—Reclamation of Benefit Payments


§ 210.9   Parties to the reclamation.

(a) Agreement of RDFI. An RDFI's acceptance of a benefit payment pursuant to this part shall constitute its agreement to this subpart. By accepting a benefit payment subject to this part, the RDFI authorizes the debiting of the Federal Reserve Bank account utilized by the RDFI in accordance with the provisions of § 210.10(e).
Agreement of RDFI.
An RDFI's acceptance of a benefit payment pursuant to this part shall constitute its agreement to this subpart. By accepting a benefit payment subject to this part, the RDFI authorizes the debiting of the Federal Reserve Bank account utilized by the RDFI in accordance with the provisions of § 210.10(e).
(b) The Federal Government. In processing reclamations pursuant to this subpart, the Service shall act pursuant to the direction of the agency that certified the benefit payment(s) being reclaimed.
The Federal Government.
In processing reclamations pursuant to this subpart, the Service shall act pursuant to the direction of the agency that certified the benefit payment(s) being reclaimed.

§ 210.10   RDFI liability.

(a) Full liability. An RDFI shall be liable to the Federal Government for the total amount of all benefit payments received after the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary unless the RDFI has the right to limit its liability under § 210.11 of this part. An RDFI shall return any benefit payments received after the RDFI becomes aware of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary, regardless of the manner in which the RDFI discovers such information. If the RDFI learns of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or death of a beneficiary from a source other than notice from the agency issuing payments to the recipient, the RDFI shall immediately notify the agency of the death or incapacity. The proper use of the R15 or R14 return reason code shall be deemed to constitute such notice.
Full liability.
An RDFI shall be liable to the Federal Government for the total amount of all benefit payments received after the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary unless the RDFI has the right to limit its liability under § 210.11 of this part. An RDFI shall return any benefit payments received after the RDFI becomes aware of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary, regardless of the manner in which the RDFI discovers such information. If the RDFI learns of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or death of a beneficiary from a source other than notice from the agency issuing payments to the recipient, the RDFI shall immediately notify the agency of the death or incapacity. The proper use of the R15 or R14 return reason code shall be deemed to constitute such notice.
(b) Actual or Constructive Knowledge of Death. Actual or constructive knowledge, when used in reference to an RDFI's or agency's knowledge of the death or incapacity of a recipient or death of a beneficiary, means that the RDFI or agency received information, by whatever means, of the death or incapacity and has had a reasonable opportunity to act on such information or that the RDFI or agency would have learned of the death or incapacity if it had followed commercially reasonable business practices. For purposes of this subpart, an agency is presumed to have constructive knowledge of death or incapacity at the time it stops certifying recurring payments to a recipient if the agency:
Actual or Constructive Knowledge of Death.
Actual or constructive knowledge, when used in reference to an RDFI's or agency's knowledge of the death or incapacity of a recipient or death of a beneficiary, means that the RDFI or agency received information, by whatever means, of the death or incapacity and has had a reasonable opportunity to act on such information or that the RDFI or agency would have learned of the death or incapacity if it had followed commercially reasonable business practices. For purposes of this subpart, an agency is presumed to have constructive knowledge of death or incapacity at the time it stops certifying recurring payments to a recipient if the agency:
(1) Does not re-initiate payments to the recipient; and
(2) Subsequently initiates a reclamation for one or more payments made to the recipient.
(c) Exception to liability rule. An RDFI shall not be liable for post-death benefit payments sent to a recipient acting as a representative payee or fiduciary on behalf of a beneficiary, if the beneficiary was deceased at the time the authorization was executed and the RDFI did not have actual or constructive knowledge of the death of the beneficiary.
Exception to liability rule.
An RDFI shall not be liable for post-death benefit payments sent to a recipient acting as a representative payee or fiduciary on behalf of a beneficiary, if the beneficiary was deceased at the time the authorization was executed and the RDFI did not have actual or constructive knowledge of the death of the beneficiary.
(d) Time limits. An agency that initiates a request for a reclamation must do so within 120 calendar days after the date that the agency first has actual or constructive knowledge of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary. An agency may not reclaim any post-death or post-incapacity payment made more than six years prior to the date of the notice of reclamation; provided, however, that if the account balance at the time the RDFI receives the notice of reclamation exceeds the total amount of post-death or post-incapacity payments made by the agency during such six-year period, this limitation shall not apply and the RDFI shall be liable for the total amount of all post-death or post-incapacity payments made, up to the amount in the account at the time the RDFI receives the notice of reclamation and has had a reasonable opportunity to act on the notice (not to exceed one business day).
Time limits.
An agency that initiates a request for a reclamation must do so within 120 calendar days after the date that the agency first has actual or constructive knowledge of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary. An agency may not reclaim any post-death or post-incapacity payment made more than six years prior to the date of the notice of reclamation; provided, however, that if the account balance at the time the RDFI receives the notice of reclamation exceeds the total amount of post-death or post-incapacity payments made by the agency during such six-year period, this limitation shall not apply and the RDFI shall be liable for the total amount of all post-death or post-incapacity payments made, up to the amount in the account at the time the RDFI receives the notice of reclamation and has had a reasonable opportunity to act on the notice (not to exceed one business day).
(e) Debit of RDFI's account. If an RDFI does not return the full amount of the outstanding total or any other amount for which the RDFI is liable under this subpart in a timely manner, the Federal Government will collect the amount outstanding by instructing the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit the account utilized by the RDFI. The Federal Reserve Bank will provide advice of the debit to the RDFI.
Debit of RDFI's account.
If an RDFI does not return the full amount of the outstanding total or any other amount for which the RDFI is liable under this subpart in a timely manner, the Federal Government will collect the amount outstanding by instructing the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit the account utilized by the RDFI. The Federal Reserve Bank will provide advice of the debit to the RDFI.
[[64 FR 17487, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 13189, Mar. 19, 2004; 85 FR 15721, Mar. 19, 2020]]

§ 210.11   Limited liability.

(a) Right to limit its liability. If an RDFI does not have actual or constructive knowledge of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary at the time it receives one or more benefit payments on behalf of the recipient, the RDFI's liability to the agency for those payments shall be limited to:
Right to limit its liability.
If an RDFI does not have actual or constructive knowledge of the death or legal incapacity of a recipient or the death of a beneficiary at the time it receives one or more benefit payments on behalf of the recipient, the RDFI's liability to the agency for those payments shall be limited to:
(1) An amount equal to:
(i) The amount in the account at the time the RDFI receives the notice of reclamation and has had a reasonable opportunity (not to exceed one business day) to act on the notice, plus any additional benefit payments made to the account by the agency before the RDFI responds in full to the notice of reclamation, or
(ii) The outstanding total, whichever is less; plus
(2) If the agency is unable to collect the entire outstanding total, an additional amount equal to:
(i) The benefit payments received by the RDFI from the agency within 45 days after the death or legal incapacity of the recipient or death of the beneficiary, or
(ii) The balance of the outstanding total, whichever is less.
(b) Qualification for limited liability. In order to limit its liability as provided in this section, an RDFI shall:
Qualification for limited liability.
In order to limit its liability as provided in this section, an RDFI shall:
(1) Certify that at the time the benefit payments were credited to or withdrawn from the account, the RDFI had no actual or constructive knowledge of the death or legal incapacity of the recipient or death of the beneficiary;
(2) Certify the date the RDFI first had actual or constructive knowledge of the death or legal incapacity of the recipient or death of the beneficiary, regardless of how and where such information was obtained;
(3)(i) Provide the name, last known address and phone number, as shown on the RDFI's records, of the following person(s):
(A) The recipient and any co-owner(s) of the recipient's account;
(B) All other person(s) authorized to withdraw funds from the recipient's account; and
(C) All person(s) who withdrew funds from the recipient's account after the death or legal incapacity of the recipient or death of the beneficiary.
(ii) If persons are not identified for any of these subcategories, the RDFI must certify that no such information is available and why no such information is available; and
(4) Fully and accurately complete all certifications on the notice of reclamation and comply with the requirements of this part.
(c) Payment of limited liability amount. If the RDFI qualifies for limited liability under this subpart, it shall immediately return to the Federal Government the amount specified in § 210.11(a)(1). The agency will then attempt to collect the amount of the outstanding total not returned by the RDFI. If the agency is unable to collect that amount, the Federal Government will instruct the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit the account utilized by the RDFI at that Federal Reserve Bank for the amount specified in § 210.11(a)(2).
Payment of limited liability amount.
If the RDFI qualifies for limited liability under this subpart, it shall immediately return to the Federal Government the amount specified in § 210.11(a)(1). The agency will then attempt to collect the amount of the outstanding total not returned by the RDFI. If the agency is unable to collect that amount, the Federal Government will instruct the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit the account utilized by the RDFI at that Federal Reserve Bank for the amount specified in § 210.11(a)(2).
(d) Violation of subpart B. An RDFI that fails to comply with any provision of this subpart in a timely and accurate manner, including but not limited to the certification requirements at § 210.11(b) and the notice requirements at § 210.13, shall be liable to the Federal Government for any loss resulting from its act or omission. Any such liability shall be in addition to the amount(s) for which the RDFI is liable under § 210.10 or § 210.11, as applicable.
Violation of subpart B.
An RDFI that fails to comply with any provision of this subpart in a timely and accurate manner, including but not limited to the certification requirements at § 210.11(b) and the notice requirements at § 210.13, shall be liable to the Federal Government for any loss resulting from its act or omission. Any such liability shall be in addition to the amount(s) for which the RDFI is liable under § 210.10 or § 210.11, as applicable.
[[64 FR 17487, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 13189, Mar. 19, 2004; 76 FR 59031, Sept. 23, 2011]]

§ 210.12   RDFI's rights of recovery.

(a) Matters between the RDFI and its customer. This subpart does not authorize or direct an RDFI to debit or otherwise affect the account of a recipient. Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to affect the right an RDFI has under state law or the RDFI's contract with a recipient to recover any amount from the recipient's account.
Matters between the RDFI and its customer.
This subpart does not authorize or direct an RDFI to debit or otherwise affect the account of a recipient. Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to affect the right an RDFI has under state law or the RDFI's contract with a recipient to recover any amount from the recipient's account.
(b) Liability unaffected. The liability of the RDFI under this subpart is not affected by actions taken by the RDFI to recover any portion of the outstanding total from any party.
Liability unaffected.
The liability of the RDFI under this subpart is not affected by actions taken by the RDFI to recover any portion of the outstanding total from any party.

§ 210.13   Notice to account owners.

Provision of notice by RDFI. Upon receipt by an RDFI of a notice of reclamation, the RDFI immediately shall mail to the last known address of the account owner(s) or otherwise provide to the account owner(s) a copy of any notice required by the Service to be provided to account owners as specified in the Green Book. Proof that this notice was sent may be required by the Service.
Provision of notice by RDFI.
Upon receipt by an RDFI of a notice of reclamation, the RDFI immediately shall mail to the last known address of the account owner(s) or otherwise provide to the account owner(s) a copy of any notice required by the Service to be provided to account owners as specified in the Green Book. Proof that this notice was sent may be required by the Service.

§ 210.14   Erroneous death information.

(a) Notification of error to the agency. If, after the RDFI responds fully to the notice of reclamation, the RDFI learns that the recipient or beneficiary is not dead or legally incapacitated or that the date of death is incorrect, the RDFI shall inform the agency that certified the underlying payment(s) and directed the Service to reclaim the funds in dispute.
Notification of error to the agency.
If, after the RDFI responds fully to the notice of reclamation, the RDFI learns that the recipient or beneficiary is not dead or legally incapacitated or that the date of death is incorrect, the RDFI shall inform the agency that certified the underlying payment(s) and directed the Service to reclaim the funds in dispute.
(b) Resolution of dispute. The agency that certified the underlying payment(s) and directed the Service to reclaim the funds will attempt to resolve the dispute with the RDFI in a timely manner. If the agency determines that the reclamation was improper, in whole or in part, the agency shall notify the RDFI and shall return the amount of the improperly reclaimed funds to the RDFI. Upon certification by the agency of an improper reclamation, the Service may instruct the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to credit the account utilized by the RDFI at the Federal Reserve Bank in the amount of the improperly reclaimed funds.
Resolution of dispute.
The agency that certified the underlying payment(s) and directed the Service to reclaim the funds will attempt to resolve the dispute with the RDFI in a timely manner. If the agency determines that the reclamation was improper, in whole or in part, the agency shall notify the RDFI and shall return the amount of the improperly reclaimed funds to the RDFI. Upon certification by the agency of an improper reclamation, the Service may instruct the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to credit the account utilized by the RDFI at the Federal Reserve Bank in the amount of the improperly reclaimed funds.
[[64 FR 17487, Apr. 9, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 13189, Mar. 19, 2004]]

PART 211—DELIVERY OF CHECKS AND WARRANTS TO ADDRESSES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, ITS TERRITORIES AND POSSESSIONS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321 and 3329.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321 and 3329.

§ 211.1   Withholding delivery of checks.

(a) It is hereby determined that postal, transportation or banking facilities in general or local conditions in the Republic of Cuba and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) are such that there is not a reasonable assurance that a payee in those areas will actually receive checks or warrants drawn against funds of the United States, or agencies or instrumentalities thereof, and be able to negotiate the same for full value.
(b) A check or warrant intended for delivery in any of the areas named in paragraph (a) of this section shall be withheld unless the check or warrant is specifically released by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(c) Before a check or warrant drawn against funds blocked pursuant to the provisions of Executive Order No. 8389 (3 CFR, 1943 Cum. Supp.), as amended, and which remain blocked under the proviso clause of General License No. 101 of the Foreign Funds Control Regulations (31 CFR 520.101) may be released, it will be necessary for a license authorizing the release to be issued by the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, pursuant to E.O. 8389, as amended. In this regard, attention is also directed to the following regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury:
(1) The Foreign Assets Control Regulations issued on December 17, 1950 (31 CFR part 500), pursuant to Executive Order 9193 (3 CFR, 1943 Cum. Supp.), which prohibit transactions involving payments to nationals of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea), the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and Democratic Kampuchea, except to the extent that any such payments have been authorized by appropriate license,
(2) The Cuban Assets Control Regulations issued on July 8, 1963 (31 CFR part 515), pursuant to the same authority, which prohibit similar transactions with nationals of Cuba unless licensed, and
(3) The Iranian Assets Control Regulations issued on November 14, 1979 (31 CFR part 535), as amended on April 17, 1980, pursuant to Executive Orders 12170 and 12211, which prohibit transactions in property of the Iranian Government or its instrumentalities and transfers of funds to persons in Iran, except as authorized by appropriate license.
(d) Powers of attorney for the receipt or collection of checks or warrants or for the proceeds of checks or warrants included within the determination of the Secretary of the Treasury set forth in paragraph (a) of this section will not be recognized.
[[41 FR 15847, Apr. 15, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 51568, Sept. 4, 1979; 45 FR 47678, July 16, 1980; 61 FR 41739, Aug. 12, 1996; 66 FR 63623, Dec. 10, 2001]]

§ 211.2   Claims for the release of withheld checks or for the proceeds thereof.

Claims for the release of checks or warrants withheld from delivery or for the proceeds thereof, shall be filed with the administrative agency which would have originally authorized such issuance, e.g., claims arising out of checks or warrants representing payments under laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be filed with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Department of Veterans Affairs, Washington, DC 20420.
[[61 FR 41739, Aug. 12, 1996]]

§ 211.3   Exceptions.

The regulations of this part do not apply to payments to foreign governments, nor to checks or warrants issued in payment of salaries or wages, or for goods or services purchased by the Government of the United States in foreign countries, unless such payments are subject to the Foreign Funds Control Regulations (31 CFR part 520), the Foreign Assets Control Regulations (31 CFR part 500), the Cuban Assets Control Regulations (31 CFR part 515), or the Iranian Assets Control Regulations (31 CFR part 535).
[[45 FR 47678, July 16, 1980]]

§ 211.4   Implementing instructions.

Implementing instructions will be issued in Part IV, “Disbursing,” of the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual for Guidance of Departments and Agencies.
[[41 FR 15847, Apr. 15, 1976]]

PART 212—GARNISHMENT OF ACCOUNTS CONTAINING FEDERAL BENEFIT PAYMENTS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 8346; 5 U.S.C. 8470; 5 U.S.C. 1103; 31 U.S.C. 321; 31 U.S.C. 3321; 31 U.S.C. 3332; 38 U.S.C. 5301(a); 38 U.S.C. 501(a); 42 U.S.C. 405(a); 42 U.S.C. 407; 42 U.S.C. 659; 42 U.S.C. 1383(d)(1); 45 U.S.C. 231f(b); 45 U.S.C. 231m; 45 U.S.C. 352(e); 45 U.S.C. 362(1).]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 8346; 5 U.S.C. 8470; 5 U.S.C. 1103; 31 U.S.C. 321; 31 U.S.C. 3321; 31 U.S.C. 3332; 38 U.S.C. 5301(a); 38 U.S.C. 501(a); 42 U.S.C. 405(a); 42 U.S.C. 407; 42 U.S.C. 659; 42 U.S.C. 1383(d)(1); 45 U.S.C. 231f(b); 45 U.S.C. 231m; 45 U.S.C. 352(e); 45 U.S.C. 362(1).
[Source:76 FR 9955, Feb. 23, 2011, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
76 FR 9955, Feb. 23, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

§ 212.1   Purpose.

The purpose of this part is to implement statutory provisions that protect Federal benefits from garnishment by establishing procedures that a financial institution must follow when served a garnishment order against an account holder into whose account a Federal benefit payment has been directly deposited.

§ 212.2   Scope.

This part applies to:
(a) Entities. All financial institutions, as defined in § 212.3.
Entities.
All financial institutions, as defined in § 212.3.
(b) Funds. Federal benefit payments protected from garnishment pursuant to the following authorities:
Funds.
Federal benefit payments protected from garnishment pursuant to the following authorities:
(1) SSA benefit payments protected under 42 U.S.C. 407 and 42 U.S.C. 1383(d)(1);
(2) VA benefit payments protected under 38 U.S.C. 5301(a);
(3) RRB benefit payments protected under 45 U.S.C. 231m(a) and 45 U.S.C. 352(e); and
(4) OPM benefit payments protected under 5 U.S.C. 8346 and 5 U.S.C. 8470.

§ 212.3   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply.
Account means an account, including a master account or sub account, at a financial institution and to which an electronic payment may be directly routed.
Account
means an account, including a master account or sub account, at a financial institution and to which an electronic payment may be directly routed.
Account holder means a natural person against whom a garnishment order is issued and whose name appears in a financial institution's records as the direct or beneficial owner of an account.
Account holder
means a natural person against whom a garnishment order is issued and whose name appears in a financial institution's records as the direct or beneficial owner of an account.
Account review means the process of examining deposits in an account to determine if a benefit agency has deposited a benefit payment into the account during the lookback period.
Account review
means the process of examining deposits in an account to determine if a benefit agency has deposited a benefit payment into the account during the lookback period.
Benefit agency means the Social Security Administration (SSA), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), or the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB).
Benefit agency
means the Social Security Administration (SSA), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), or the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB).
Benefit payment means a Federal benefit payment referred to in § 212.2(b) paid by direct deposit to an account with the character “XX” encoded in positions 54 and 55 of the Company Entry Description field and the number “2” encoded in the Originator Status Code field of the Batch Header Record of the direct deposit entry.
Benefit payment
means a Federal benefit payment referred to in § 212.2(b) paid by direct deposit to an account with the character “XX” encoded in positions 54 and 55 of the Company Entry Description field and the number “2” encoded in the Originator Status Code field of the Batch Header Record of the direct deposit entry.
Federal banking agency means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the National Credit Union Administration.
Federal banking agency
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the National Credit Union Administration.
Financial institution means a bank, savings association, credit union, or other entity chartered under Federal or State law to engage in the business of banking.
Financial institution
means a bank, savings association, credit union, or other entity chartered under Federal or State law to engage in the business of banking.
Freeze or account freeze means an action by a financial institution to seize, withhold, or preserve funds, or to otherwise prevent an account holder from drawing on or transacting against funds in an account, in response to a garnishment order.
Freeze
or
account freeze
means an action by a financial institution to seize, withhold, or preserve funds, or to otherwise prevent an account holder from drawing on or transacting against funds in an account, in response to a garnishment order.
Garnish or garnishment means execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process.
Garnish
or
garnishment
means execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process.
Garnishment fee means any service or legal processing fee, charged by a financial institution to an account holder, for processing a garnishment order or any associated withholding or release of funds.
Garnishment fee
means any service or legal processing fee, charged by a financial institution to an account holder, for processing a garnishment order or any associated withholding or release of funds.
Garnishment order or order means a writ, order, notice, summons, judgment, levy or similar written instruction issued by a court, a State or State agency, a municipality or municipal corporation, or a State child support enforcement agency, including a lien arising by operation of law for overdue child support or an order to freeze the assets in an account, to effect a garnishment against a debtor.
Garnishment order
or
order
means a writ, order, notice, summons, judgment, levy or similar written instruction issued by a court, a State or State agency, a municipality or municipal corporation, or a State child support enforcement agency, including a lien arising by operation of law for overdue child support or an order to freeze the assets in an account, to effect a garnishment against a debtor.
Lookback period means the two month period that begins on the date preceding the date of account review and ends on the corresponding date of the month two months earlier, or on the last date of the month two months earlier if the corresponding date does not exist. Examples illustrating the application of this definition are included in appendix C to this part.
Lookback period
means the two month period that begins on the date preceding the date of account review and ends on the corresponding date of the month two months earlier, or on the last date of the month two months earlier if the corresponding date does not exist. Examples illustrating the application of this definition are included in appendix C to this part.
Protected amount means the lesser of the sum of all benefit payments posted to an account between the close of business on the beginning date of the lookback period and the open of business on the ending date of the lookback period, or the balance in an account when the account review is performed. Examples illustrating the application of this definition are included in Appendix C to this part.
Protected amount
means the lesser of the sum of all benefit payments posted to an account between the close of business on the beginning date of the lookback period and the open of business on the ending date of the lookback period, or the balance in an account when the account review is performed. Examples illustrating the application of this definition are included in Appendix C to this part.
State means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
State child support enforcement agency means the single and separate organizational unit in a State that has the responsibility for administering or supervising the State's plan for child and spousal support pursuant to Title IV, Part D, of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 654.
State child support enforcement agency
means the single and separate organizational unit in a State that has the responsibility for administering or supervising the State's plan for child and spousal support pursuant to Title IV, Part D, of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 654.
United States means:
United States
means:
(1) A Federal corporation,
(2) An agency, department, commission, board, or other entity of the United States, or
(3) An instrumentality of the United States, as set forth in 28 U.S.C. 3002(15).
[[76 FR 9955, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 32109, May 29, 2013]]

§ 212.4   Initial action upon receipt of a garnishment order.

(a) Examination of order for Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits. Prior to taking any other action related to a garnishment order issued against a debtor, and no later than two business days following receipt of the order, a financial institution shall examine the order to determine if the United States or a State child support enforcement agency has attached or included a Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits, as set forth in Appendix B to this part.
Examination of order for Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits.
Prior to taking any other action related to a garnishment order issued against a debtor, and no later than two business days following receipt of the order, a financial institution shall examine the order to determine if the United States or a State child support enforcement agency has attached or included a Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits, as set forth in Appendix B to this part.
(b) Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits is attached to or included with the order. If a Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits is attached to or included with the garnishment order, then the financial institution shall follow its otherwise customary procedures for handling the order and shall not follow the procedures in § 212.5 and § 212.6.
Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits is attached to or included with the order.
If a Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits is attached to or included with the garnishment order, then the financial institution shall follow its otherwise customary procedures for handling the order and shall not follow the procedures in § 212.5 and § 212.6.
(c) No Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits. If a Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits is not attached to or included with the garnishment order, then the financial institution shall follow the procedures in § 212.5 and § 212.6.
No Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits.
If a Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits is not attached to or included with the garnishment order, then the financial institution shall follow the procedures in § 212.5 and § 212.6.

§ 212.5   Account review.

(a) Timing of account review. When served a garnishment order issued against a debtor, a financial institution shall perform an account review:
Timing of account review.
When served a garnishment order issued against a debtor, a financial institution shall perform an account review:
(1) No later than two business days following receipt of (A) the order, and (B) sufficient information from the creditor that initiated the order to determine whether the debtor is an account holder, if such information is not already included in the order; or
(2) In cases where the financial institution is served a batch of a large number of orders, by a later date that may be permitted by the creditor that initiated the orders, consistent with the terms of the orders. The financial institution shall maintain records on such batches and creditor permissions, consistent with § 212.11(b),
(b) No benefit payment deposited during lookback period. If the account review shows that a benefit agency did not deposit a benefit payment into the account during the lookback period, then the financial institution shall follow its otherwise customary procedures for handling the garnishment order and shall not follow the procedures in § 212.6.
No benefit payment deposited during lookback period.
If the account review shows that a benefit agency did not deposit a benefit payment into the account during the lookback period, then the financial institution shall follow its otherwise customary procedures for handling the garnishment order and shall not follow the procedures in § 212.6.
(c) Benefit payment deposited during lookback period. If the account review shows that a benefit agency deposited a benefit payment into the account during the lookback period, then the financial institution shall follow the procedures in § 212.6.
Benefit payment deposited during lookback period.
If the account review shows that a benefit agency deposited a benefit payment into the account during the lookback period, then the financial institution shall follow the procedures in § 212.6.
(d) Uniform application of account review. The financial institution shall perform an account review without consideration for any other attributes of the account or the garnishment order, including but not limited to:
Uniform application of account review.
The financial institution shall perform an account review without consideration for any other attributes of the account or the garnishment order, including but not limited to:
(1) The presence of other funds, from whatever source, that may be commingled in the account with funds from a benefit payment;
(2) The existence of a co-owner on the account;
(3) The existence of benefit payments to multiple beneficiaries, and/or under multiple programs, deposited in the account;
(4) The balance in the account, provided the balance is above zero dollars on the date of account review;
(5) Instructions to the contrary in the order; or
(6) The nature of the debt or obligation underlying the order.
(e) Priority of account review. The financial institution shall perform the account review prior to taking any other actions related to the garnishment order that may affect funds in the account.
Priority of account review.
The financial institution shall perform the account review prior to taking any other actions related to the garnishment order that may affect funds in the account.
(f) Separate account reviews. The financial institution shall perform the account review separately for each account in the name of an account holder against whom a garnishment order has been issued. In performing account reviews for multiple accounts in the name of one account holder, a financial institution shall not trace the movement of funds between accounts by attempting to associate funds from a benefit payment deposited into one account with amounts subsequently transferred to another account.
Separate account reviews.
The financial institution shall perform the account review separately for each account in the name of an account holder against whom a garnishment order has been issued. In performing account reviews for multiple accounts in the name of one account holder, a financial institution shall not trace the movement of funds between accounts by attempting to associate funds from a benefit payment deposited into one account with amounts subsequently transferred to another account.

§ 212.6   Rules and procedures to protect benefits.

The following provisions apply if an account review shows that a benefit agency deposited a benefit payment into an account during the lookback period.
(a) Protected amount. The financial institution shall immediately calculate and establish the protected amount for an account. The financial institution shall ensure that the account holder has full and customary access to the protected amount, which the financial institution shall not freeze in response to the garnishment order. An account holder shall have no requirement to assert any right of garnishment exemption prior to accessing the protected amount in the account.
Protected amount.
The financial institution shall immediately calculate and establish the protected amount for an account. The financial institution shall ensure that the account holder has full and customary access to the protected amount, which the financial institution shall not freeze in response to the garnishment order. An account holder shall have no requirement to assert any right of garnishment exemption prior to accessing the protected amount in the account.
(b) Separate protected amounts. The financial institution shall calculate and establish the protected amount separately for each account in the name of an account holder, consistent with the requirements in § 212.5(f) to conduct distinct account reviews.
Separate protected amounts.
The financial institution shall calculate and establish the protected amount separately for each account in the name of an account holder, consistent with the requirements in § 212.5(f) to conduct distinct account reviews.
(c) No challenge of protection. A protected amount calculated and established by a financial institution pursuant to this section shall be conclusively considered to be exempt from garnishment under law.
No challenge of protection.
A protected amount calculated and established by a financial institution pursuant to this section shall be conclusively considered to be exempt from garnishment under law.
(d) Funds in excess of the protected amount. For any funds in an account in excess of the protected amount, the financial institution shall follow its otherwise customary procedures for handling garnishment orders, including the freezing of funds, but consistent with paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
Funds in excess of the protected amount.
For any funds in an account in excess of the protected amount, the financial institution shall follow its otherwise customary procedures for handling garnishment orders, including the freezing of funds, but consistent with paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
(e) Notice. The financial institution shall issue a notice to the account holder named in the garnishment order, in accordance with § 212.7.
Notice.
The financial institution shall issue a notice to the account holder named in the garnishment order, in accordance with § 212.7.
(f) One-time account review process. The financial institution shall perform the account review only one time upon the first service of a given garnishment order. The financial institution shall not repeat the account review or take any other action related to the order if the same order is subsequently served again upon the financial institution. If the financial institution is subsequently served a new or different garnishment order against the same account holder, the financial institution shall perform a separate and new account review.
One-time account review process.
The financial institution shall perform the account review only one time upon the first service of a given garnishment order. The financial institution shall not repeat the account review or take any other action related to the order if the same order is subsequently served again upon the financial institution. If the financial institution is subsequently served a new or different garnishment order against the same account holder, the financial institution shall perform a separate and new account review.
(g) No continuing or periodic garnishment responsibilities. The financial institution shall not continually garnish amounts deposited or credited to the account following the date of account review, and shall take no action to freeze any funds subsequently deposited or credited, unless the institution is served with a new or different garnishment order, consistent with the requirements of this part.
No continuing or periodic garnishment responsibilities.
The financial institution shall not continually garnish amounts deposited or credited to the account following the date of account review, and shall take no action to freeze any funds subsequently deposited or credited, unless the institution is served with a new or different garnishment order, consistent with the requirements of this part.
(h) Impermissible garnishment fee. The financial institution may not charge or collect a garnishment fee against a protected amount. The financial institution may charge or collect a garnishment fee up to five business days after the account review if funds other than a benefit payment are deposited to the account within this period, provided that the fee may not exceed the amount of the non-benefit deposited funds.
Impermissible garnishment fee.
The financial institution may not charge or collect a garnishment fee against a protected amount. The financial institution may charge or collect a garnishment fee up to five business days after the account review if funds other than a benefit payment are deposited to the account within this period, provided that the fee may not exceed the amount of the non-benefit deposited funds.
[[76 FR 9955, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 32109, May 29, 2013]]

§ 212.7   Notice to the account holder.

A financial institution shall issue the notice required by § 212.6(e) in accordance with the following provisions.
(a) Notice requirement. The financial institution shall send the notice in cases where:
Notice requirement.
The financial institution shall send the notice in cases where:
(1) A benefit agency deposited a benefit payment into an account during the lookback period;
(2) The balance in the account on the date of account review was above zero dollars and the financial institution established a protected amount; and
(3) There are funds in the account in excess of the protected amount.
(b) Notice content. The financial institution shall notify the account holder named in the garnishment order of the following facts and events in readily understandable language.
Notice content.
The financial institution shall notify the account holder named in the garnishment order of the following facts and events in readily understandable language.
(1) The financial institution's receipt of an order against the account holder.
(2) The date on which the order was served.
(3) A succinct explanation of garnishment.
(4) The financial institution's requirement under Federal regulation to ensure that account balances up to the protected amount specified in § 212.3 are protected and made available to the account holder if a benefit agency deposited a benefit payment into the account in the last two months.
(5) The account subject to the order and the protected amount established by the financial institution.
(6) The financial institution's requirement pursuant to State law to freeze other funds in the account to satisfy the order and the amount frozen, if applicable.
(7) The amount of any garnishment fee charged to the account, consistent with § 212.6.
(8) A list of the Federal benefit payments subject to this part, as identified in § 212.2(b).
(9) The account holder's right to assert against the creditor that initiated the order a further garnishment exemption for amounts above the protected amount, by completing exemption claim forms, contacting the court of jurisdiction, or contacting the creditor, as customarily applicable for a given jurisdiction.
(10) The account holder's right to consult an attorney or legal aid service in asserting against the creditor that initiated the order a further garnishment exemption for amounts above the protected amount.
(11) The name of the creditor, and, if contact information is included in the order, means of contacting the creditor.
(c) Optional notice content. The financial institution may notify the account holder named in the garnishment order of the following facts and events in readily understandable language.
Optional notice content.
The financial institution may notify the account holder named in the garnishment order of the following facts and events in readily understandable language.
(1) Means of contacting a local free attorney or legal aid service.
(2) Means of contacting the financial institution,
(3) By issuing the notice required by this part, the financial institution is not providing legal advice.
(d) Amending notice content. The financial institution may amend the content of the notice to integrate information about a State's garnishment rules and protections, for the purposes of avoiding potential confusion or harmonizing the notice with State requirements, or providing more complete information about an account.
Amending notice content.
The financial institution may amend the content of the notice to integrate information about a State's garnishment rules and protections, for the purposes of avoiding potential confusion or harmonizing the notice with State requirements, or providing more complete information about an account.
(e) Notice delivery. The financial institution shall issue the notice directly to the account holder, or to a fiduciary who administers the account and receives communications on behalf of the account holder, and only information and documents pertaining to the garnishment order, including other notices or forms that may be required under State or local government law, may be included in the communication.
Notice delivery.
The financial institution shall issue the notice directly to the account holder, or to a fiduciary who administers the account and receives communications on behalf of the account holder, and only information and documents pertaining to the garnishment order, including other notices or forms that may be required under State or local government law, may be included in the communication.
(f) Notice timing. The financial institution shall send the notice to the account holder within 3 business days from the date of account review.
Notice timing.
The financial institution shall send the notice to the account holder within 3 business days from the date of account review.
(g) One notice for multiple accounts. The financial institution may issue one notice with information related to multiple accounts of an account holder.
One notice for multiple accounts.
The financial institution may issue one notice with information related to multiple accounts of an account holder.
(h) Not legal advice. By issuing a notice required by this part, a financial institution creates no obligation to provide, and shall not be deemed to be offering, legal advice.
Not legal advice.
By issuing a notice required by this part, a financial institution creates no obligation to provide, and shall not be deemed to be offering, legal advice.
[[76 FR 9955, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 32109, May 29, 2013]]

§ 212.8   Other rights and authorities.

(a) Exempt status. Nothing in this part shall be construed to limit an individual's right under Federal law to assert against a creditor a further exemption from garnishment for funds in excess of the protected amount, or to alter the exempt status of funds that may be protected from garnishment under Federal law.
Exempt status.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to limit an individual's right under Federal law to assert against a creditor a further exemption from garnishment for funds in excess of the protected amount, or to alter the exempt status of funds that may be protected from garnishment under Federal law.
(b) Account agreements. Nothing in this part shall be construed to invalidate any term or condition of an account agreement between a financial institution and an account holder that is not inconsistent with this part.
Account agreements.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to invalidate any term or condition of an account agreement between a financial institution and an account holder that is not inconsistent with this part.

§ 212.9   Preemption of State law.

(a) Inconsistent law preempted. Any State or local government law or regulation that is inconsistent with a provision of this part is preempted to the extent of the inconsistency. A State law or regulation is inconsistent with this part if it requires a financial institution to take actions or make disclosures that contradict or conflict with the requirements of this part or if a financial institution cannot comply with the State law or regulation without violating this part.
Inconsistent law preempted.
Any State or local government law or regulation that is inconsistent with a provision of this part is preempted to the extent of the inconsistency. A State law or regulation is inconsistent with this part if it requires a financial institution to take actions or make disclosures that contradict or conflict with the requirements of this part or if a financial institution cannot comply with the State law or regulation without violating this part.
(b) Consistent law not preempted. This regulation does not annul, alter, affect, or exempt any financial institution from complying with the laws of any State with respect to garnishment practices, except to the extent of an inconsistency. A requirement under State law to protect benefit payments in an account from freezing or garnishment at a higher protected amount than is required under this part is not inconsistent with this part if the financial institution can comply with both this part and the State law requirement.
Consistent law not preempted.
This regulation does not annul, alter, affect, or exempt any financial institution from complying with the laws of any State with respect to garnishment practices, except to the extent of an inconsistency. A requirement under State law to protect benefit payments in an account from freezing or garnishment at a higher protected amount than is required under this part is not inconsistent with this part if the financial institution can comply with both this part and the State law requirement.

§ 212.10   Safe harbor.

(a) Protection during examination and pending review. A financial institution that complies in good faith with this part shall not be liable to a creditor that initiates a garnishment order, or for any penalties under State law, contempt of court, civil procedure, or other law for failing to honor a garnishment order, for account activity during:
Protection during examination and pending review.
A financial institution that complies in good faith with this part shall not be liable to a creditor that initiates a garnishment order, or for any penalties under State law, contempt of court, civil procedure, or other law for failing to honor a garnishment order, for account activity during:
(1) The two business days following the financial institution's receipt of a garnishment order during which the financial institution must determine if the United States or a State child support enforcement agency has attached or included a Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits, as set forth in § 212.4; or
(2) The time between the financial institution's receipt of the garnishment order and the date by which the financial institution must perform the account review, as set forth in § 212.5.
(b) Protection when protecting or freezing funds. A financial institution that complies in good faith with this part shall not be liable to a creditor that initiates a garnishment order for any protected amounts, to an account holder for any frozen amounts, or for any penalties under State law, contempt of court, civil procedure, or other law for failing to honor a garnishment order in cases where:
Protection when protecting or freezing funds.
A financial institution that complies in good faith with this part shall not be liable to a creditor that initiates a garnishment order for any protected amounts, to an account holder for any frozen amounts, or for any penalties under State law, contempt of court, civil procedure, or other law for failing to honor a garnishment order in cases where:
(1) A benefit agency has deposited a benefit payment into an account during the lookback period, or
(2) The financial institution has determined that the order was obtained by the United States or issued by a State child support enforcement agency by following the procedures in § 212.4.
(c) Protection for providing additional information to account holder. A financial institution shall not be liable for providing in good faith any optional information in the notice to the account holder, as set forth in § 212.7(c) and (d).
Protection for providing additional information to account holder.
A financial institution shall not be liable for providing in good faith any optional information in the notice to the account holder, as set forth in § 212.7(c) and (d).
(d) Protection for financial institutions from other potential liabilities. A financial institution that complies in good faith with this part shall not be liable for:
Protection for financial institutions from other potential liabilities.
A financial institution that complies in good faith with this part shall not be liable for:
(1) Bona fide errors that occur despite reasonable procedures maintained by the financial institution to prevent such errors in complying with the provisions of this part;
(2) Customary clearing and settlement adjustments that affect the balance in an account, including a protected amount, such as deposit reversals caused by the return of unpaid items, or debit card transactions settled for amounts higher than the amounts originally authorized; or
(3) Honoring an account holder's express written instruction, that is both dated and provided by the account holder to the financial institution following the date on which it has been served a particular garnishment order, to use an otherwise protected amount to satisfy the order.

§ 212.11   Compliance and record retention.

(a) Enforcement. Federal banking agencies will enforce compliance with this part.
Enforcement.
Federal banking agencies will enforce compliance with this part.
(b) Record retention. A financial institution shall maintain records of account activity and actions taken in response to a garnishment order, sufficient to demonstrate compliance with this part, for a period of not less than two years from the date on which the financial institution receives the garnishment order.
Record retention.
A financial institution shall maintain records of account activity and actions taken in response to a garnishment order, sufficient to demonstrate compliance with this part, for a period of not less than two years from the date on which the financial institution receives the garnishment order.

§ 212.12   Amendment of this part.

This part may be amended only by a rulemaking issued jointly by Treasury and all of the benefit agencies as defined in § 212.3.

Appendix A to Part 212—Model Notice to Account Holder

A financial institution may use the following model notice to meet the requirements of § 212.7. Although use of the model notice is not required, a financial institution using it properly is deemed to be in compliance with § 212.7.
Information in brackets should be completed by the financial institution. Where the bracketed information indicates a choice of words, as indicated by a slash, the financial institution should either select the appropriate words or provide substitute words suitable to the garnishment process in a given jurisdiction.
Parenthetical wording in italics represents instructions to the financial institution and should not be printed with the notice. In most cases, this wording indicates that the model language either is optional for the financial institution, or should only be included if some condition is met.
MODEL NOTICE:
[Financial institution name, city, and State, shown as letterhead or otherwise printed at the beginning of the notice]
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR ACCOUNT
Date:
Notice to:
Account Number:
Why am I receiving this notice?
On [date on which garnishment order was served], [Name of financial institution] received a garnishment order from a court to [freeze/remove] funds in your account. The amount of the garnishment order was for $[amount of garnishment order]. We are sending you this notice to let you know what we have done in response to the garnishment order.
What is garnishment?
Garnishment is a legal process that allows a creditor to remove funds from your [bank]/[credit union] account to satisfy a debt that you have not paid. In other words, if you owe money to a person or company, they can obtain a court order directing your [bank]/[credit union] to take money out of your account to pay off your debt. If this happens, you cannot use that money in your account.
What has happened to my account?
On [date of account review], we researched your account and identified one or more Federal benefit payments deposited in the last 2 months. In most cases, Federal benefit payments are protected from garnishment. As required by Federal regulations, therefore, we have established a “protected amount” of funds that will remain available to you and that will not be [frozen/removed] from your account in response to the garnishment order.
(Conditional paragraph if funds have been frozen) Your account contained additional money that may not be protected from garnishment. As required by law, we have [placed a hold on/removed] these funds in the amount of $[amount frozen] and may have to turn these funds over to your creditor as directed by the garnishment order.
Conditional paragraph if funds have been frozen
) Your account contained additional money that may not be protected from garnishment. As required by law, we have [placed a hold on/removed] these funds in the amount of $[amount frozen] and may have to turn these funds over to your creditor as directed by the garnishment order.
The chart below summarizes this information about your account(s):
Account Summary as of [date of account review]
Account number
Amount in
account
Amount protected
Amount subject to garnishment (now [frozen/removed])
Garnishment fee charged
(
If the account holder has multiple accounts, add a row for each account.
)
Please note that these amount(s) may be affected by deposits or withdrawals after the protected amount was calculated on [date of account review].
Do I need to do anything to access my protected funds?
You may use the “protected amount” of money in your account as you normally would. There is nothing else that you need to do to make sure that the “protected amount” is safe.
There is nothing else that you need to do to make sure that the “protected amount” is safe.
Who garnished my account?
The creditor who obtained a garnishment order against you is [name of creditor].
What types of Federal benefit payments are protected from garnishment?
In most cases, you have protections from garnishment if the funds in your account include one or more of the following Federal benefit payments:
• Social Security benefits
• Supplemental Security Income benefits
• Veterans benefits
• Railroad retirement benefits
• Railroad Unemployment Insurance benefits
• Civil Service Retirement System benefits
• Federal Employees Retirement System benefits
(Conditional section if funds have been frozen) What should I do if I think that additional funds in my account are from Federal benefit payments?
Conditional section if funds have been frozen
) What should I do if I think that additional funds in my account are from Federal benefit payments?
If you believe that additional funds in your account(s) are from Federal benefit payments and should not have been [frozen/removed], there are several things you can do.
(Conditional sentence if applicable for the jurisdiction) You can fill out a garnishment exemption form and submit it to the court.
Conditional sentence if applicable for the jurisdiction
) You can fill out a garnishment exemption form and submit it to the court.
You may contact the creditor that garnished your account and explain that additional funds are from Federal benefit payments and should be released back to you. (Conditional sentence if contact information is in the garnishment order) The creditor may be contacted at [contact information included in the garnishment order].
Conditional sentence if contact information is in the garnishment order
) The creditor may be contacted at [contact information included in the garnishment order].
You may also consult an attorney (lawyer) to help you prove to the creditor who garnished your account that additional funds are from Federal benefit payments and cannot be taken. If you cannot afford an attorney, you can seek assistance from a free attorney or a legal aid society. (Optional sentences) [Name of State, local, or independent legal aid service] is an organization that provides free legal aid and can be reached at [contact information]. You can find information about other free legal aid programs at [insert “http://www.lawhelp.org” or other legal aid programs website].
Optional sentences)
[Name of State, local, or independent legal aid service] is an organization that provides free legal aid and can be reached at [contact information]. You can find information about other free legal aid programs at [insert “
http://www.lawhelp.org
” or other legal aid programs website].
(Optional section) How to contact [name of financial institution].
Optional section
) How to contact [name of financial institution].
This notice contains all the information that we have about the garnishment order. However, if you have a question about your account, you may contact us at [contact number].

Appendix B to Part 212—Form of Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits

The United States, or a State child support enforcement agency, certifying its right to garnish Federal benefits shall attach or include with a garnishment order the following Notice, on official organizational letterhead.
Information in brackets should be completed by the United States or a State child support enforcement agency, as applicable. Where the bracketed information indicates a choice of words, as indicated by a slash, the appropriate words should be selected from the options.
Notice of Right to Garnish Federal Benefits
Date:
[Garnishment Order Number]/[State Case ID]: ______
The attached garnishment order was [obtained by the United States, pursuant to the Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act, 28 U.S.C. § 3205, or the Mandatory Victims Restitution Act, 18 U.S.C. § 3613, or other Federal statute]/[issued by (name of the State child support enforcement agency), pursuant to authority to attach or seize assets of noncustodial parents in financial institutions in the State of (name of State), 42 U.S.C. § 666].
Accordingly, the garnishee is hereby notified that the procedures established under 31 CFR part 212 for identifying and protecting Federal benefits deposited to accounts at financial institutions do not apply to this garnishment order.
The garnishee should comply with the terms of this order, including instructions for withholding and retaining any funds deposited to any account(s) covered by this order, pending further order of [name of the court]/[the name of the State child support enforcement agency].

Appendix C to Part 212—Examples of the Lookback Period and Protected Amount

The following examples illustrate this definition of lookback period.
lookback period.
Example 1: Account review performed same day garnishment order is served.
A financial institution receives garnishment order on Wednesday, March 17. The financial institution performs account review the same day on Wednesday, March 17. The lookback period begins on Tuesday, March 16, the date preceding the date of account review. The lookback period ends on Saturday, January 16, the corresponding date two months earlier.
Example 2: Account review performed the day after garnishment order is served.
A financial institution receives garnishment order on Wednesday, November 17. The financial institution performs account review next business day on Thursday, November 18. The lookback period begins on Wednesday, November 17, the date preceding the date of account review. The lookback period ends on Friday, September 17, the corresponding date two months earlier.
Example 3: No corresponding date two months earlier.
A financial institution receives garnishment order on Tuesday, August 30. The financial institution performs the account review two business days later on Thursday, September 1. The lookback period begins on Wednesday, August 31, the date preceding the date of account review. The lookback period ends on Wednesday, June 30, the last date of the month two months earlier, since June 31 does not exist to correspond with August 31.
Example 4: Weekend between receipt of garnishment order and account review.
A financial institution receives garnishment order on Friday, December 10. The financial institution performs the account review two business days later on Tuesday, December 14. The lookback period begins on Monday, December 13, the date preceding the date of account review. The lookback period ends on Wednesday, October 13, the corresponding date two months earlier.
The following examples illustrate the definition of protected amount.
protected amount.
Example 1: Account balance less than sum of benefit payments.
A financial institution receives a garnishment order against an account holder for $2,000 on May 20. The date of account review is the same day, May 20, and the balance in the account when the review is performed is $1,000. The lookback period begins on May 19, the date preceding the date of account review, and ends on March 19, the corresponding date two months earlier. The account review shows that two Federal benefit payments were deposited to the account during the lookback period totaling $2,500, one for $1,250 on Friday, April 30 and one for $1,250 on Tuesday, April 1. Since the $1,000 balance in the account when the account review is performed is less than the $2,500 sum of benefit payments posted to the account during the lookback period, the financial institution establishes the protected amount at $1,000. The financial institution is not required to send a notice to the account holder.
Example 2: Three benefit payments during lookback period.
A financial institution receives a garnishment order against an account holder for $8,000 on December 2. The date of account review is the same day, December 2, and the balance in the account when the account review is performed is $5,000. The lookback period begins on December 1, the date preceding the date of account review, and ends on October 1, the corresponding date two months earlier. The account review shows that three Federal benefit payments were deposited to the account during the lookback period totaling $4,500, one for $1,500 on December 1, another for $1,500 on November 1, and a third for $1,500 on October 1. Since the $4,500 sum of the three benefit payments posted to the account during the lookback period is less than the $5,000 balance in the account when the account review is performed, the financial institution establishes the protected amount at $4,500 and seizes the remaining $500 in the account consistent with State law. The financial institution is required to send a notice to the account holder.
Example 3: Intraday transactions.
A financial institution receives a garnishment order against an account holder for $4,000 on Friday, September 10. The date of account review is Monday, September 13, when the opening balance in the account is $6,000. A cash withdrawal for $1,000 is processed after the open of business on September 13, but before the financial institution has performed the account review, so that the balance in the account is $5,000 when the financial institution initiates an automated program to conduct the account review. The lookback period begins on Sunday, September 12, the date preceding the date of account review, and ends on Monday, July 12, the corresponding date two months earlier. The account review shows that two Federal benefit payments were deposited to the account during the lookback period totaling $3,000, one for $1,500 on Wednesday, July 21, and the other for $1,500 on Wednesday, August 18. Since the $3,000 sum of the two benefit payments posted to the account during the lookback period is less than the $5,000 balance in the account when the account review is performed, the financial institution establishes the protected amount at $3,000 and, consistent with State law, freezes the $2,000 remaining in the account after the cash withdrawal. The financial institution is required to send a notice to the account holder.
Example 4: Benefit payment on date of account review.
A financial institution receives a garnishment order against an account holder for $5,000 on Thursday, July 1. The date of account review is the same day, July 1, when the opening balance in the account is $3,000, and reflects a Federal benefit payment of $1,000 posted that day. The lookback period begins on Wednesday, June 30, the date preceding the date of account review, and ends on Friday, April 30, the corresponding date two months earlier. The account review shows that two Federal benefit payments were deposited to the account during the lookback period totaling $2,000, one for $1,000 on Friday, April 30 and one for $1,000 on Tuesday, June 1. Since the $2,000 sum of the two benefit payments posted to the account during the lookback period is less than the $3,000 balance in the account when the account review is performed, the financial institution establishes the protected amount at $2,000 and places a hold on the remaining $1,000 in the account in accordance with State law. The financial institution is required to send a notice to the account holder.
Example 5: Account co-owners with benefit payments.
A financial institution receives a garnishment order against an account holder for $3,800 on March 22. The date of account review is the same day, March 22, and the balance in the account is $7,000. The lookback period begins on March 21, the date preceding the date of account review, and ends on January 21, the corresponding date two months earlier. The account review shows that four Federal benefit payments were deposited to the account during the lookback period totaling $7,000. Two of these benefit payments, totaling $3,000, were made to the account holder against whom the garnishment order was issued. The other two payments, totaling $4,000, were made to a co-owner of the account. Since the financial institution must perform the account review based only on the presence of benefit payments, without regard to the existence of co-owners on the account or payments to multiple beneficiaries or under multiple programs, the financial institution establishes the protected amount at $7,000, equal to the sum of the four benefit payments posted to the account during the lookback period. Since $7,000 is also the balance in the account at the time of the account review, there are no additional funds in the account which can be frozen. The financial institution is not required to send a notice to the account holder.
[[76 FR 9955, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 32109, May 29, 2013]]

PART 215—WITHHOLDING OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, STATE, CITY AND COUNTY INCOME OR EMPLOYMENT TAXES BY FEDERAL AGENCIES

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 5516, 5517, 5520; E.O. 11997, 42 FR 31759.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5516, 5517, 5520; E.O. 11997, 42 FR 31759.
[Source:42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 215.1   Scope of part.

This part relates to agreements between the Secretary of the Treasury and States (including the District of Columbia), cities or counties for withholding of State, city or county income or employment taxes from the compensation of civilian Federal employees, and for the withholding of State income taxes from the compensation of members of the Armed Forces. Subpart A contains general information and definitions. Subpart B prescribes the procedures to be followed in entering into an agreement for the withholding of State, city or county income or employment taxes. Subpart C is the Withholding Agreement which the Secretary will enter into with any State, city or county which qualifies to have the tax withheld.
[[71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

§ 215.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:
(a) Agency means each of the executive agencies and military departments (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105 and 102, respectively) and the United States Postal Service; and in addition, for city or county withholding purposes only, all elements of the judicial branch.
Agency
means each of the executive agencies and military departments (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105 and 102, respectively) and the United States Postal Service; and in addition, for city or county withholding purposes only, all elements of the judicial branch.
(b) City means any unit of general local government.
City
means any unit of general local government.
(1) Which:
(A) Is classified as a municipality by the United States Bureau of the Census, or
(B) Is a town or township which, in the determination of the Secretary of the Treasury,
(i) Possesses powers and performs functions comparable to those associated with municipalities,
(ii) Is closely settled, and
(iii) Contains within its boundaries no incorporated places as defined by the United States Bureau of the Census; and
(2) Within the political boundaries of which five hundred or more persons are regularly employed by all agencies of the Federal Government.
(c) City income or employment taxes means any form of tax for which, under a city ordinance:
City income or employment taxes
means any form of tax for which, under a city ordinance:
(1) Collection is provided by imposing on employers generally the duty of withholding sums from the pay of employees and making returns of the sums to a designated city officer, department, or instrumentality; and
(2) The duty to withhold generally is imposed on the payment of compensation earned within the jurisdiction of the city in the case of employees whose regular place of employment is within such jurisdiction. Whether the tax is described as an income, wage, payroll, earnings, occupational license, or otherwise, is immaterial.
(d) Compensation as applied to employees of an agency and members of the Armed Forces means wages as defined in 26 U.S.C. 3401(a) and regulations issued thereunder.
Compensation
as applied to employees of an agency and members of the Armed Forces means
wages
as defined in 26 U.S.C. 3401(a) and regulations issued thereunder.
(e) County means any unit of local general Government which is classified as a county by the Bureau of the Census and within the political boundaries of which 500 or more persons are regularly employed by all agencies of the Federal Government.
County
means any unit of local general Government which is classified as a county by the Bureau of the Census and within the political boundaries of which 500 or more persons are regularly employed by all agencies of the Federal Government.
(f) County income or employment taxes means any form of tax for which, under a county ordinance:
County income or employment taxes
means any form of tax for which, under a county ordinance:
(1) Collection is provided by imposing on employers generally the duty of withholding sums from the pay of employees and making returns of the sums to a designated county officer, department, or instrumentality; and
(2) The duty to withhold generally is imposed on the payment of compensation earned within the jurisdiction of the country in the case of employees whose regular place of employment is within such jurisdiction. Whether the tax is described as an income, wage, payroll, earnings, occupational license, or otherwise, is immaterial.
(g) District of Columbia income tax means the income tax imposed under 47 District of Columbia Code, chapter 15, subchapter II.
District of Columbia income tax
means the income tax imposed under 47 District of Columbia Code, chapter 15, subchapter II.
(h)(1) Employees for the purpose of State income tax withholding, means all employees of an agency, other than members of the armed forces. For city and county income or employment tax withholding, it means:
Employees
for the purpose of State income tax withholding, means all employees of an agency, other than members of the armed forces. For city and county income or employment tax withholding, it means:
(i) Employees of an agency;
(ii) Members of the National Guard, participating in exercises or performing duty under 32 U.S.C. 502; or
(iii) Members of the Ready Reserve, participating in scheduled drills or training periods, or serving on active duty for training under 10 U.S.C. 270(a).
The term does not include retired personnel, pensioners, annuitants, or similar beneficiaries of the Federal Government, who are not performing active civilian service or persons receiving remuneration for services on a contract-fee basis.
(2) Employees for purposes of District of Columbia income tax withholding, means employees as defined in 47 District of Columbia Code 1551c(z).
Employees
for purposes of District of Columbia income tax withholding, means employees as defined in 47 District of Columbia Code 1551c(z).
(i) Members of the Armed Forces means (1) individuals in active duty status (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(1)) in regular and reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, and (2) members of the National Guard while participating in exercises or performing duty under 32 U.S.C. 502 and members of the Ready Reserve while participating in scheduled drills or training periods or serving on active duty for training under 10 U.S.C. 10147.
Members of the Armed Forces
means (1) individuals in active duty status (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(1)) in regular and reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, and (2) members of the National Guard while participating in exercises or performing duty under 32 U.S.C. 502 and members of the Ready Reserve while participating in scheduled drills or training periods or serving on active duty for training under 10 U.S.C. 10147.
(j) Ordinance means an ordinance, order, resolution, or similar instrument which is duly adopted and approved by a city or county in accordance with the constitution and statutes of the state in which it is located and which has the force of law within such city or county.
Ordinance
means an ordinance, order, resolution, or similar instrument which is duly adopted and approved by a city or county in accordance with the constitution and statutes of the state in which it is located and which has the force of law within such city or county.
(k) Regular place of Federal employment means the official duty station, or other place, where an employee actually and normally (i.e. , other than in a travel or temporary duty status) performs services, irrespective of residence.
Regular place of Federal employment
means the official duty station, or other place, where an employee actually and normally (
i.e.
, other than in a travel or temporary duty status) performs services, irrespective of residence.
(l) Secretary means Secretary of the Treasury or his designee.
Secretary
means Secretary of the Treasury or his designee.
(m) State means a State, territory, possession, or commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
State
means a State, territory, possession, or commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
(n) State income tax means any form of tax for which, under a State status:
State income tax
means any form of tax for which, under a State status:
(1) Collection is provided, either by imposing on employers generally the duty of withholding sums from the compensation of employees and making returns of such sums to the State or by granting to employers generally the authority to withhold sums from the compensation of employees, if any employee voluntarily elects to have such sums withheld; and
(2) The duty to withhold generally is imposed, or the authority to withhold generally is granted, with respect to the compensation of employees who are residents of such State.
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977, as amended at 55 FR 3590, Feb. 2, 1990; 55 FR 7494, Mar. 2, 1990; 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

Subpart B—Procedures


§ 215.3   Procedures for entering into a Withholding Agreement.

(a) Subpart C of this part is the Withholding Agreement which the Secretary will enter into with a State, city or county. A State, city or county which does not have an existing withholding agreement with the Secretary and wishes to enter into such an agreement shall indicate in a letter its consent to be bound by the provisions of subpart C. The letter shall be sent to the Secretary by addressing the request to: Assistant Commissioner, Payment Management, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20227. The letter shall be signed by an officer authorized to bind contractually the State, city or county. Copies of all applicable State laws, city or county ordinances and implementing regulations, instructions, and forms shall be enclosed. The letter shall also indicate the title and address of the official whom Federal agencies may contact to obtain forms and other information necessary to implement withholding.
(b) Within 120 days of the receipt of the letter from the State, city or county official, the Secretary will, by letter, notify the State, city or county:
(1) That a Withholding Agreement has been entered into as of the date of the Secretary's letter, or
(2) That a Withholding Agreement cannot be entered into with the State, city or county and the reason for that determination.
(c) The withholding of the State, city or county income or employment tax shall commence within 90 days after the effective date of the agreement.
[[71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 51374, Aug. 20, 2010]]

§ 215.4   Relationship of Withholding Agreement to prior agreements.

Jurisdictions which requested from Treasury an agreement other than the Withholding Agreement set forth in subpart C (formerly known as the Standard Agreement) within 90 days after July 1, 1977, which request Treasury subsequently approved, will continue to be governed by such agreement. For all other jurisdictions, the Withholding Agreement set forth in subpart C replaced all prior agreements between the Secretary and a taxing jurisdiction for the withholding of income or employment taxes from the compensation of Federal employees, and any jurisdiction which was a party to a prior agreement is presumed to have consented to be bound by the Withholding Agreement set forth in subpart C.
[[71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

Subpart C—Withholding Agreement


§ 215.5   In general.

This subpart is the text of the Withholding Agreement between the Secretary and the State, city or county. The terms used in this agreement are defined in § 215.2 of this part.
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977. Redesignated and amended at 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

§ 215.6   Parties.

The parties to this agreement are the Secretary and the State, city or county which has entered into this agreement pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5516, 5517, or 5520 and Executive Order 11997 (June 22, 1977).
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977. Redesignated at 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

§ 215.7   Compliance by agencies.

(a) In the case of an agreement with a State, the head of each agency is required to withhold State income taxes from the compensation of:
(1) Employees of such agency who are subject to such taxes and whose regular place of Federal employment is within the State, and
(2) Members of the Armed Forces who are subject to such taxes and who are legal residents of the State.
The foregoing is also applicable with respect to a State whose statutes permit but do not require withholding by employers, provided the employee voluntarily elects to have such tax withheld.
(b) In the case of an agreement with a city or county, the head of each agency is required to withhold city or county income or employment taxes from the compensation of any employee of the agency who is subject to the tax, and
(1) Whose regular place of Federal employment is within the city or county, or
(2) Is a resident of the city or county.
(c) In withholding taxes, the head of each agency, except as otherwise provided in this agreement, shall comply with the withholding provisions of the State, city or county income or employment tax statute, regulations, procedural instructions and reciprocal agreements related thereto.
(Pub. L. 95-365, 92 Stat. 599 (5 U.S.C. 5520))
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 4670, Jan. 23, 1979. Redesignated at 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

§ 215.8   Withholding certificates.

Each agency may require employees or members of the Armed Forces under its jurisdiction to complete a withholding certificate in order to calculate the amount to be withheld. The agency shall use the withholding certificate which the State, city or county has prescribed. Where the State, city or county has not prescribed a certificate, the agency may use a certificate approved by the Department of the Treasury. The agency may rely on the information in the certificate. Copies of completed certificates shall be provided to the taxing authority by agencies upon request.
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977. Redesignated at 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

§ 215.9   Change of legal residence by members of the Armed Forces.

(a) In determining the legal residence of a member of the Armed Forces for tax withholding purposes, the head of an agency at all times may rely on the agency's current records, which may include a certificate of legal residence. The form of the certificate of legal residence shall be approved by the Department of the Treasury. A change of legal residence of a member of the Armed Forces shall become effective for tax withholding purposes only after a member of the Armed Forces completes a certificate indicating a new legal residence and delivers it to the agency.
(b) Heads of agencies shall notify the State of prior legal residence of the member of the Armed Forces involved on a monthly basis concerning the change of the member's legal residence. The notification shall include the name, social security number, current mailing address and the new legal residence of such member of the Armed Forces. The effective date of the change in legal residence shall also be included in the notification.
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977. Redesignated at 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

§ 215.10   Agency withholding procedures.

(a) State income tax shall be withheld only on the entire compensation of Federal employees and members of the Armed Forces. Nonresident employees, who under the State income tax law are required to allocate at least three-fourths of their compensation to the State, shall be subject to withholding on their entire compensation. Nonresident employees, who under the State income tax law are required to allocate less than three-fourths of their compensation to the State, may elect to:
(1) Have State income tax withheld on their entire compensation, or
(2) Have no income tax withheld on their compensation.
(b) In calculating the amount to be withheld from an employee's or a member's compensation, each agency shall use the method prescribed by the State income tax statute or city or county ordinance or a method which produces approximately the tax required to be withheld:
(1) By the State income tax statute from the compensation of each employee or member of the Armed Forces subject to such income tax, or
(2) By the city or county ordinance from the compensation of each employee subject to such income or employment tax.
(c) Where it is the practice of a Federal agency under Federal tax withholding procedure to make returns and payment of the tax on an estimated basis, subject to later adjustment based on audited figures, this practice may be applied with respect to the State, city of county income or employment tax where the agency has made appropriate arrangements with the State, city or county income tax authorities.
(d) Copies of Federal Form W-2, “Wage and Tax Statement”, may be used for reporting withheld taxes to the State, city or county.
(e) Withholding shall not be required on wages earned but unpaid at the date of an employee's or member's death.
(f) Withholding of District of Columbia income tax shall not apply to pay of employees who are not residents of the District of Columbia as defined in 47 District of Columbia Code, chapter 15, subchapter II.
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977. Redesignated at 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

§ 215.11   Miscellaneous provisions.

Nothing in this agreement shall be deemed:
(a) To require collection by agencies of the United States of delinquent tax liabilities of Federal employees or members of the Armed Forces, or
(b) To consent to the application of any provision of law of the State, city or county which has the effect of:
(1) Imposing more burdensome requirements upon the United States than it imposes on other employers, or
(2) Subjecting the United States or any of its officers or employees to any penalty or liability, or
(c) To consent to procedures for withholding, filing of returns, and payment of the withheld taxes to a State, city or county that do not conform to the usual fiscal practices of agencies, or
(d) To permit withholding of a city or county tax from the pay of a Federal employee who is not a resident of, or whose regular place of Federal employment is not within, the State in which the city or county is located, unless the employee consents to the withholding, or
(e) To permit the withholding of city or county income or employment taxes from the pay of members of the Armed Forces of the United States, or
(f) To allow agencies to accept compensation from a State, city or county for services performed in withholding of State or city or county income or employment taxes.
(Pub. L. 95-365, 92 Stat. 599 (5 U.S.C. 5520))
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 4670, Jan. 23, 1979. Redesignated at 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

§ 215.12   Supersession, amendment and termination provisions.

(a) This agreement supersedes any prior agreement between the Secretary of the Treasury and a State or city pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5516, 5517, or 5520.
(b) This agreement shall be subject to any amendment of 5 U.S.C. 5516, 5517, 5520 or Executive Order 11997, and any rules and regulations issued prusuant to them and amendments thereto.
(c) This agreement may be terminated as to a specific State or city or county which is a party to this agreement by providing written notice to that effect to the Secretary at least 90 days prior to the proposed termination.
[[42 FR 33731, July 1, 1977. Redesignated at 71 FR 2150, Jan. 13, 2006]]

PART 223—SURETY COMPANIES DOING BUSINESS WITH THE UNITED STATES

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308.

§ 223.1   Certificate of authority.

(a) The regulations in this part govern the issuance, renewal, and revocation by the Secretary of the Treasury, acting through the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Treasury), of certificates of authority to bonding companies to do business with the United States as sureties on, or reinsurers of, Federal surety bonds (hereinafter “bonds” or “obligations”) under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308 and this part, and the acceptance of such obligations.
(b) A company applying for authority to write surety bonds in favor of the United States must be engaged in the business of writing surety or fidelity contracts at the time of its application to Treasury, whether or not also making contracts in other classes of insurance, but shall not be engaged in any type or class of business not authorized by its charter or the laws of the state in which the company is incorporated. It must be the intention of the company to engage actively in the execution of surety bonds or fidelity contracts in favor of the United States.
(c) A company is not eligible for a certificate of authority if it only insures or reinsures risks of its parent, affiliated, or controlled unaffiliated business, or is deemed by Treasury to be primarily engaged in self-insurance.
[[89 FR 48831, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.2   Application for certificate of authority.

(a) Application for issuance of certificate of authority. Every company not currently holding a certificate of authority wishing to apply for a certificate of authority shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/. The company shall file the following data with Treasury, and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
Application for issuance of certificate of authority.
Every company not currently holding a certificate of authority wishing to apply for a certificate of authority shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/.
The company shall file the following data with Treasury, and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
(1) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22;
(2) A written request for a certificate of authority, signed by an officer of the company. This request must indicate:
(i) Whether the company has previously applied for a certificate of authority from Treasury and, if so, the date and disposition of the previous application; and
(ii) Whether Treasury has ever previously issued the company a certificate of authority, the reason for termination of its certificate of authority, and the applicable dates;
(3) A certified copy of its charter or articles of incorporation showing that it is duly authorized to conduct the business referenced under 31 U.S.C. 9304(a)(2) and a statement from an officer of the company certifying that:
(i) The company is authorized to transact surety business; and
(ii) If granted a certificate of authority, there are no restrictions upon the company preventing it from being able to execute and guarantee bonds and undertakings in judicial proceedings, and guarantee contracts to which the United States is a party;
(4) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and directors as of the date of application, including a biographical affidavit of each officer and director per instructions online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/;
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/
;
(5) A memorandum setting forth:
(i) A comprehensive statement of the company's method of operation, including, but not limited to, underwriting guidelines, claims adjustment procedures, reinsurance philosophy, control over collateral, and significant changes in operations or corporate structure that impact its financial statements;
(ii) The classes of business in which it engages;
(iii) Any special underwriting agreements, management agreements, or pooling agreements in force. Copies of such agreements must be included with the memorandum; and
(iv) Present plans of the company as to the types of Federal bonds it intends to write, the anticipated annual premium volume of the Federal bonds, and the geographical areas in which it intends to write the Federal bonds;
(6) A certified copy of a license from its state of incorporation and a completed Surety License Form (Form No. FS 2208);
(7) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by its domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
(8) The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) annual statement form with all Schedules and Exhibits completed, including copies of the NAIC File Upload, showing the last two full calendar years of the company's financial condition, including proof that the company has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in cash or its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or has net assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all liabilities, in the case of a mutual insurance company. The annual financial statement's Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile or electronic signatures are acceptable) by the company President, Secretary, and a Notary Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
(9) The Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) ratio results, and an explanation for any ratios outside the normal ranges as established by the NAIC for the last two full calendar years preceding the date of application;
(10) A written statement signed by the Insurance Commissioner or other proper financial officer of any state attesting that the company maintains on deposit legal investments having a current market value of not less than $100,000 for the protection of claimants, including all of its policyholders in the U.S.;
(11) A completed Treasury Schedule F (Form No. TFS 6314), as referenced in § 223.9(c) for the last two full calendar years preceding the date of application;
(12) Copies of all reinsurance treaties currently in force along with a completed Summary of Reinsurance Treaties, per instructions provided online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/;
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/
;
(13) A completed Schedule of Excess Risks form (Form No. FS 285-A) as of the date of the application;
(14) A Statement of Actuarial Opinion as of the close of the last two full calendar years preceding the date of application provided by a qualified actuary, as defined by the NAIC, on the adequacy of all loss reserves with the scope and format of the statement also conforming to the requirements of the NAIC; and
(15) Such other evidence as Treasury may, in its discretion, request to establish that the company is solvent, willing, and able to meet the continuing obligation to carry out its contracts. Additionally, Treasury will publish supplemental guidance annually regarding evidence it may require, submission methods, and format of the data listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (14) of this section.
(b) Applications for renewal of certificate of authority. Every company wishing to apply for the annual renewal of its certificate of authority shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/. The company shall file the following data with Treasury, and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
Applications for renewal of certificate of authority.
Every company wishing to apply for the annual renewal of its certificate of authority shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/.
The company shall file the following data with Treasury, and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
(1) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22;
(2) A completed Surety License Form (Form No. FS 2208) and a certified copy of the licenses from any states indicated on the Surety License Form that were not indicated on the company's most recent form;
(3) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by its domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
(4) A statement of its financial condition, as of the close of the preceding year, on the annual statement form of the NAIC with all Schedules and Exhibits completed, including copies of the NAIC File Upload, showing that it has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in cash or its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or has net assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all liabilities, in the case of a mutual insurance company. The Annual Financial Statement's Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile or electronic signatures are acceptable) by the company President, Secretary, and a Notary Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
(5) IRIS ratio results, and an explanation for any ratios outside the normal ranges as established by the NAIC, as of the close of the preceding year;
(6) A completed Treasury Schedule F (Form No. TFS 6314), as referenced in § 223.9(c) as of the close of the preceding year;
(7) A completed Schedule of Excess Risks form (Form No. FS 285-A) as of the close of the preceding quarter;
(8) A Statement of Actuarial Opinion as of the close of the preceding year provided by a qualified actuary, as defined by the NAIC, on the adequacy of all loss reserves with the scope and format of the statement also conforming to the requirements of the NAIC;
(9) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and directors as of the close of the preceding year, including a biographical affidavit of any new officer and director for whom a biographical affidavit was not previously provided, per instructions online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/;
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/
;
(10) A Report of Federal Business Written and/or Outstanding as of the close of the preceding year, per instructions provided online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/; and
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/
; and
(11) Such other evidence as Treasury may request to establish that the company is solvent, willing, and able to meet the continuing obligation to carry out its contracts. Additionally, Treasury will publish supplemental guidance annually regarding evidence it may require, submission methods, and format of the data listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section.
[[89 FR 48831, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.3   Issuance of certificates of authority.

(a) In determining whether to issue or renew a certificate of authority, Treasury will evaluate the whole application package under § 223.2, the financial condition of the company as determined under § 223.9, the history of the company, and any further evidence or information that Treasury may, in its discretion, require the company to submit.
(b) A certificate of authority will be effective for a term that expires on the last day of the next July. All statutory requirements and regulatory requirements under this part are continuing obligations, and any certificate issued is expressly subject to continuing compliance with such requirements. The certificate of authority will be renewed annually on the first day of August, provided that the company remains qualified under the law, the regulations in this part, and other relevant Treasury requirements, and the company submits the fee required under § 223.22 by March 1st of each year.
provided that
the company remains qualified under the law, the regulations in this part, and other relevant Treasury requirements, and the company submits the fee required under § 223.22 by March 1st of each year.
(c) If a company meets the requirements for a certificate of authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds in all respects except that it is limited to reinsurance business only, it may be issued a certificate of authority as a reinsuring company on Federal bonds. The fees for initial application and renewal of a certificate as a reinsuring company are the same as the fees for an initial application and renewal of a certificate of authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds.
[[89 FR 48832, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.4   [Reserved]


§ 223.5   Business.

A company holding a certificate of authority, or its agent, may only execute (sign or otherwise validate) a surety bond in favor of the United States in a state where it is licensed to do surety business. It need not be licensed in the state or other area in which the principal resides or where the contract is to be performed. The term other area includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
other area
includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
[[89 FR 48832, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.6   [Reserved]


§ 223.7   Notification of changes.

(a) Every company certified under this part or recognized as an admitted reinsurer pursuant to § 223.12(h) must notify Treasury of changes that have a significant impact on its financial statements or solvency during the term of such certification or admission. Paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all such changes that Treasury may require to be reported and may evaluate as part of its ongoing analysis of the company. Additionally, Treasury will publish supplemental guidance on additional information that may be required. Every company certified under this part or recognized as an admitted reinsurer pursuant to § 223.12(h) must notify Treasury of the following:
(1) Capital changes. Companies must forward to Treasury, when available, approvals by the insurance authorities of the company's state regulator when changes in paid-up capital or contributions or withdrawals to surplus have occurred;
Capital changes.
Companies must forward to Treasury, when available, approvals by the insurance authorities of the company's state regulator when changes in paid-up capital or contributions or withdrawals to surplus have occurred;
(2) Changes in stock ownership. Stock insurance companies must provide a statement signed and sworn to by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary and by the Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer of the company each time any person (whether an individual, corporation, or organization of any kind) becomes owner of more than 5 percent of any class of outstanding stock issued by the company;
Changes in stock ownership.
Stock insurance companies must provide a statement signed and sworn to by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary and by the Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer of the company each time any person (whether an individual, corporation, or organization of any kind) becomes owner of more than 5 percent of any class of outstanding stock issued by the company;
(3) Mergers, transfer, assumption, and group/pool restructuring. Companies must notify Treasury at least six months prior to any merger, consolidation, transfer, assumption, material group or pool restructuring, or name changes in which the reporting company is involved. The company must furnish to Treasury copies or agreements or documents pertaining to the same, as approved by the insurance authorities of the company's state regulator; and
Mergers, transfer, assumption, and group/pool restructuring.
Companies must notify Treasury at least six months prior to any merger, consolidation, transfer, assumption, material group or pool restructuring, or name changes in which the reporting company is involved. The company must furnish to Treasury copies or agreements or documents pertaining to the same, as approved by the insurance authorities of the company's state regulator; and
(4) Charters and bylaws amendments. Whenever a company amends its charter or bylaws it must submit a certified copy of the amended charter or bylaws to Treasury.
Charters and bylaws amendments.
Whenever a company amends its charter or bylaws it must submit a certified copy of the amended charter or bylaws to Treasury.
(b) Noncompliance with this section may result in Treasury denying a company's application for its certificate of authority, its recognition as an admitted reinsurer, renewal of its certificate of authority, or renewal of its recognition as an admitted reinsurer; or in Treasury revoking a company's certificate of authority or recognition as an admitted reinsurer.
[[89 FR 48832, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.8   Quarterly financial reporting requirements.

Every company certified under this part is required to file the following each quarter with Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/:
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/
:
(a) A statement of its financial condition, as of the close of the preceding quarter, on the quarterly statement form of the NAIC with all Schedules and Exhibits completed, including copies of the NAIC File Upload, showing that it has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in cash or its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or has net assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all liabilities, in the case of a mutual insurance company. The Quarterly Financial Statement's Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile or electronic signatures are acceptable) by the company President, Secretary, and a Notary Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
(b) A completed Schedule of Excess Risks form (Form No. FS 285-A) as of the close of the preceding quarter;
(c) A Report of Federal Business Written and/or Outstanding as of the close of the preceding quarter, per instructions provided online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/;
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/
;
(d) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by its domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
(e) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and directors as of the close of the preceding quarter, including a biographical affidavit of each new officer and director per instructions online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/; and
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/
; and
(f) Such other evidence as Treasury may request to establish that the company is solvent, willing, and able to meet the continuing obligation to carry out its contracts. Additionally, Treasury will publish supplemental guidance annually regarding evidence it may require, submission methods, and format of the data listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section along with the due dates for quarterly reporting.
[[89 FR 48833, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.9   Determination of financial condition and other required information.

In determining the financial condition of every company applying for a certificate of authority or renewal of a certificate of authority under this part, Treasury will generally compute the company's assets and liabilities in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, provided that Treasury may exercise discretion in valuing the assets and liabilities of such companies. While paragraphs (a) through (f) specify how Treasury will value certain classes of assets and liabilities and the analysis that Treasury will perform, they are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all assets and liabilities that Treasury may require to be reported and may evaluate as part of this analysis. Additionally, Treasury will annually publish supplemental guidance on the financial analysis performed by Treasury, including applicable ratios and acceptable ranges for ratios.
(a) Assets—(1) General criteria for admissibility. The cash capital and other funds included in the financial statement must be safely invested in accordance with the laws of the state in which the company is incorporated. Admissible assets must be reported in U.S. Dollars and are generally limited to investments in cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, mortgage loans (within certain limits), and real property necessary for the conduct of a company's business. In cases where an investment (other than U.S. Government securities and securities of affiliates or subsidiaries) exceeds 10 percent of the total admitted assets, Treasury may require additional supporting documentation as needed on a case-by-case basis in order for the asset to be admissible. Additionally, Treasury considers normal account balances (such as, but not limited to, investment income due and accrued, agents' balances and premiums receivables, reinsurance recoverables on paid losses, and funds held by or deposited with ceding reinsuring companies) to be admissible provided they meet Treasury's standards. In order to be admissible, normal account balances may be evaluated for transactional substance, quality, and liquidity. Some assets that may be admissible under codification and/or certain state permitted practices may require supporting documentation as needed on a case-by-case basis in order to be admissible under Treasury's criteria. Assets resulting from reinsurance transactions must meet the credit for reinsurance standards listed under paragraph (c) of this section.
Assets
—(1)
General criteria for admissibility.
The cash capital and other funds included in the financial statement must be safely invested in accordance with the laws of the state in which the company is incorporated. Admissible assets must be reported in U.S. Dollars and are generally limited to investments in cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, mortgage loans (within certain limits), and real property necessary for the conduct of a company's business. In cases where an investment (other than U.S. Government securities and securities of affiliates or subsidiaries) exceeds 10 percent of the total admitted assets, Treasury may require additional supporting documentation as needed on a case-by-case basis in order for the asset to be admissible. Additionally, Treasury considers normal account balances (such as, but not limited to, investment income due and accrued, agents' balances and premiums receivables, reinsurance recoverables on paid losses, and funds held by or deposited with ceding reinsuring companies) to be admissible provided they meet Treasury's standards. In order to be admissible, normal account balances may be evaluated for transactional substance, quality, and liquidity. Some assets that may be admissible under codification and/or certain state permitted practices may require supporting documentation as needed on a case-by-case basis in order to be admissible under Treasury's criteria. Assets resulting from reinsurance transactions must meet the credit for reinsurance standards listed under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Securities. Bonds, unaffiliated common stocks, and unaffiliated preferred stocks must be valued and reported in accordance with the NAIC's Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (as updated or amended from time to time) and the NAIC Securities Valuation Office (SVO). Those with an investment grade designation will be admissible and those with a non-investment grade designation will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Securities.
Bonds, unaffiliated common stocks, and unaffiliated preferred stocks must be valued and reported in accordance with the NAIC's Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (as updated or amended from time to time) and the NAIC Securities Valuation Office (SVO). Those with an investment grade designation will be admissible and those with a non-investment grade designation will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
(i) All other securities. The value of all other securities should be valued as of December 31 and reported in U.S. Dollars. For securities that do not have a SVO designation or have a SVO non-investment grade designation and are significant for Treasury purposes, Treasury may consider, if it deems appropriate, other relevant data (e.g., prospectus, marketability/liquidity information, internal investment strategies/philosophies) and perform an analysis to determine whether the securities meet Treasury's criteria for admissibility.
All other securities.
The value of all other securities should be valued as of December 31 and reported in U.S. Dollars. For securities that do not have a SVO designation or have a SVO non-investment grade designation and are significant for Treasury purposes, Treasury may consider, if it deems appropriate, other relevant data (e.g., prospectus, marketability/liquidity information, internal investment strategies/philosophies) and perform an analysis to determine whether the securities meet Treasury's criteria for admissibility.
(ii) Securities of controlled companies. Investments in subsidiaries, controlled entities, and affiliated entities must be reported in accordance with the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (as updated or amended from time to time).
Securities of controlled companies.
Investments in subsidiaries, controlled entities, and affiliated entities must be reported in accordance with the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (as updated or amended from time to time).
(A) Other insurance companies. Companies owning securities of other insurance companies, which are under the same direction and control as the reporting company, must furnish copies of the NAIC File Upload of the subsidiaries. The assets of these subsidiaries will be analyzed according to the criteria set forth in this section.
Other insurance companies.
Companies owning securities of other insurance companies, which are under the same direction and control as the reporting company, must furnish copies of the NAIC File Upload of the subsidiaries. The assets of these subsidiaries will be analyzed according to the criteria set forth in this section.
(B) Non-insurance companies. Companies owning securities of non-insurance companies, which are under the same direction and control as the reporting company, must furnish copies of independently audited financial statements of such companies as of the reporting date.
Non-insurance companies.
Companies owning securities of non-insurance companies, which are under the same direction and control as the reporting company, must furnish copies of independently audited financial statements of such companies as of the reporting date.
(3) Real estate and mortgages. Only real estate essential to the operating needs of the company for conducting its business, and conventional first mortgage loans on unencumbered, improved, or productive real estate located within the United States, are admissible. These must be reported in accordance with the NAIC's Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (as updated or amended from time to time). The real estate and mortgaged property must be supported by an appraisal report that includes the information and computations normally used in arriving at a competent appraised value. In instances where the aggregate values exceed 20 percent of the policyholders' surplus, Treasury may, if it deems appropriate, require additional supporting documentation.
Real estate and mortgages.
Only real estate essential to the operating needs of the company for conducting its business, and conventional first mortgage loans on unencumbered, improved, or productive real estate located within the United States, are admissible. These must be reported in accordance with the NAIC's Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (as updated or amended from time to time). The real estate and mortgaged property must be supported by an appraisal report that includes the information and computations normally used in arriving at a competent appraised value. In instances where the aggregate values exceed 20 percent of the policyholders' surplus, Treasury may, if it deems appropriate, require additional supporting documentation.
(b) Minimum bail reserve requirements. Companies transacting surety bail business must submit a schedule showing bail premiums in force, bail liability, and the amount of any associated unearned premium reserve.
Minimum bail reserve requirements.
Companies transacting surety bail business must submit a schedule showing bail premiums in force, bail liability, and the amount of any associated unearned premium reserve.
(c) Reinsurance. (1) Companies are required to submit Treasury Schedule F (Treasury Form No. TFS 6314) reflecting information in the company's annual statements. Credit for reinsurance may be taken (to the extent specified in the referenced provisions of § 223.12) for reinsurance in all classes of risk provided that it is ceded to the following companies:
Reinsurance.
(1) Companies are required to submit Treasury Schedule F (Treasury Form No. TFS 6314) reflecting information in the company's annual statements. Credit for reinsurance may be taken (to the extent specified in the referenced provisions of § 223.12) for reinsurance in all classes of risk provided that it is ceded to the following companies:
(i) Companies holding a current certificate of authority from Treasury;
(ii) U.S. domiciled non-Treasury certified or recognized parents, subsidiaries, and/or affiliates if Treasury determines that the parent, subsidiary, and/or affiliate is financially solvent;
(iii) Admitted reinsurers as defined under § 223.12(h);
(iv) Complementary reinsurers as defined under § 223.12(i);
(v) Alien reinsurers as defined under § 223.12(j), up to the extent credit is allowed for reinsurance ceded to the alien reinsurer by the ceding company's state of domicile (subject to paragraph (c)(3) of this section); and
(vi) An instrumentality or agency of the United States that is permitted by Federal law or regulation to execute reinsurance contracts.
(2) Treasury may give credit for reinsurance not covered in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to the extent of funds withheld or letters of credit or trust agreements from such reinsurers, provided the company advises Treasury and provides sufficient documentation of the amount of funds held, letters of credit posted or funds secured in trust for each company. Treasury may also give credit for trust account assets associated with multi-beneficiary trust agreements established and maintained in the United States by overseas accredited or trusteed reinsurers listed online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/, to the extent the relevant ceded business is covered by these trust account assets.
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/,
to the extent the relevant ceded business is covered by these trust account assets.
(3) If, after its review of the financial documentation submitted by an alien reinsurer recognized pursuant to § 223.12(j) and of the financial documentation submitted by the ceding company, Treasury determines that either company may be unable to carry out its obligations, Treasury may require additional collateral for the ceding company to receive credit for reinsurance to the extent credit is given for reinsurance ceded to the alien reinsurer by the ceding company's state of domicile.
(d) Risk based capital (RBC). Treasury uses RBC in determining the financial solvency of companies, together with such companies' overall financial results, ratios, and trends. Companies must maintain RBC results that fall within acceptable ranges as established by the NAIC or provide a satisfactory explanation for results that do not.
Risk based capital (RBC).
Treasury uses RBC in determining the financial solvency of companies, together with such companies' overall financial results, ratios, and trends. Companies must maintain RBC results that fall within acceptable ranges as established by the NAIC or provide a satisfactory explanation for results that do not.
(e) Financial ratios. Treasury uses the NAIC IRIS ratios to measure companies' solvency, profitability, and liquidity. Companies must maintain results for these ratios that fall within acceptable ranges as established by the NAIC or provide a satisfactory explanation for results that do not.
Financial ratios.
Treasury uses the NAIC IRIS ratios to measure companies' solvency, profitability, and liquidity. Companies must maintain results for these ratios that fall within acceptable ranges as established by the NAIC or provide a satisfactory explanation for results that do not.
(f) Financial results and trends. Treasury analyzes financial results from annual and quarterly financial statements required under this part for evidence of negative financial results or trends. Treasury may require companies to submit additional documentation or explanation regarding financial statements with evidence of negative financial results or trends such as decreasing policyholders' surplus, large underwriting losses, negative cashflows, or unsatisfactory IRIS ratio results.
Financial results and trends.
Treasury analyzes financial results from annual and quarterly financial statements required under this part for evidence of negative financial results or trends. Treasury may require companies to submit additional documentation or explanation regarding financial statements with evidence of negative financial results or trends such as decreasing policyholders' surplus, large underwriting losses, negative cashflows, or unsatisfactory IRIS ratio results.
(g) Noncompliance. Noncompliance with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section may result in Treasury denying a company's application for its certificate of authority, or renewal of its certificate, or in Treasury revoking a company's certificate.
Noncompliance.
Noncompliance with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section may result in Treasury denying a company's application for its certificate of authority, or renewal of its certificate, or in Treasury revoking a company's certificate.
[[89 FR 48833, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.10   Limitation of risk.

(a) Except as provided in § 223.11, no company holding a certificate of authority shall underwrite any single risk on any bond or policy on behalf of any individual, firm, association, or corporation, whether or not the United States is interested as a party thereto, the amount of which is greater than 10 percent of the paid-up capital and surplus of such company, as determined by Treasury. Such figure (i.e., 10 percent of a company's paid-up capital and surplus as determined by Treasury) is hereinafter referred to as the underwriting limitation. For purposes of this part, single risk means the total risk under one bond or policy regardless of the number of individual risks under that bond or policy.
i.e.,
10 percent of a company's paid-up capital and surplus as determined by Treasury) is hereinafter referred to as the underwriting limitation. For purposes of this part,
single risk
means the total risk under one bond or policy regardless of the number of individual risks under that bond or policy.
(b) In determining the underwriting limitation, the full penalty of any surety and fidelity obligation will be regarded as the liability, and no offset will be allowed on account of any estimate of risk that is less than such full penalty, except in the following cases:
(1) Appeal bonds; in which case the liability will be regarded as the amount of the judgment appealed from, plus 10 percent of said amount to cover interest and costs;
(2) Bonds of executors, administrators, trustees, guardians, and other fiduciaries, where the penalty of the bond or other obligation is fixed in excess of the estimated value of the estate; in which cases the estimated value of the estate, upon which the penalty of the bond was fixed, will be regarded as the liability;
(3) Indemnifying agreements executed by sole heirs or beneficiaries of an estate releasing the surety from liability;
(4) Contract bonds given in excess of the amount of the contract; in which cases the amount of the contract will be regarded as the liability; or
(5) Bonds for banks or trust companies as principals, conditioned to repay moneys on deposit, whereby pursuant to any law or decree of a court, the amount to be deposited shall be less than the penalty of the bond; in which cases the maximum amount on deposit at any one time will be regarded as the liability.
[[89 FR 48834, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.11   Limitation of risk: Protective methods.

In the case of risks otherwise in excess of a company's limitation of risk prescribed in § 223.10, compliance may be achieved by the following methods:
(a) Coinsurance. Two or more companies holding a certificate of authority may underwrite a single risk on any bond or policy, the amount of which does not exceed their aggregate underwriting limitations. Each company must limit its liability upon the face of the bond or policy to an amount which must be within its respective underwriting limitation.
Coinsurance.
Two or more companies holding a certificate of authority may underwrite a single risk on any bond or policy, the amount of which does not exceed their aggregate underwriting limitations. Each company must limit its liability upon the face of the bond or policy to an amount which must be within its respective underwriting limitation.
(b) Reinsurance—(1) Bonds running to the United States. (i) With respect to all bonds running to the United States to the extent that its excess liability is not addressed through another protective method specified in this section, a company writing such bonds must reinsure liability in excess of the underwriting limitation with one or more companies holding a certificate of authority from Treasury within 45 days from the date of execution and delivery of the bond. Such reinsurance shall not be in excess of the underwriting limitation of the reinsuring company. Federal agencies may accept a bond from the direct writing company in satisfaction of the total bond requirement even though it may exceed the direct writing company's underwriting limitation. Within the 45-day period, the direct writing company shall furnish to the Federal agency any requested reinsurance agreements. However, a Federal agency may, in its discretion, require that the direct writing company obtain reinsurance within a lesser period than 45 days, and may require the direct writing company to provide completely executed reinsurance agreements before making a final determination that any bond is acceptable.
Reinsurance
—(1)
Bonds running to the United States.
(i) With respect to all bonds running to the United States to the extent that its excess liability is not addressed through another protective method specified in this section, a company writing such bonds must reinsure liability in excess of the underwriting limitation with one or more companies holding a certificate of authority from Treasury within 45 days from the date of execution and delivery of the bond. Such reinsurance shall not be in excess of the underwriting limitation of the reinsuring company. Federal agencies may accept a bond from the direct writing company in satisfaction of the total bond requirement even though it may exceed the direct writing company's underwriting limitation. Within the 45-day period, the direct writing company shall furnish to the Federal agency any requested reinsurance agreements. However, a Federal agency may, in its discretion, require that the direct writing company obtain reinsurance within a lesser period than 45 days, and may require the direct writing company to provide completely executed reinsurance agreements before making a final determination that any bond is acceptable.
(ii) For bonds required to be furnished to the United States by the Miller Act (40 U.S.C. 3131, as amended), in addition to complying with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the direct writing company must execute the following reinsurance agreement forms: Standard Form 273 (Reinsurance Agreement for a Bonds Statute Performance Bond), Standard Form 274 (Reinsurance Agreement for a Bonds Statute Payment Bond), and Standard Form 275 (Reinsurance Agreement in Favor of the United States). These forms are available on the General Services Administration website at www.gsa.gov.
www.gsa.gov.
(2) Bonds not running to the United States. A company holding a certificate of authority from Treasury writing risks covered by bonds or policies not running to the United States, to the extent that its excess liability is not addressed through another protective method specified in this section, must reinsure liability in excess of its underwriting limitation within 45 days from the date of execution and delivery of the bond or policy with any of:
Bonds not running to the United States.
A company holding a certificate of authority from Treasury writing risks covered by bonds or policies not running to the United States, to the extent that its excess liability is not addressed through another protective method specified in this section, must reinsure liability in excess of its underwriting limitation within 45 days from the date of execution and delivery of the bond or policy with any of:
(i) One or more companies holding a certificate of authority from Treasury;
(ii) One or more companies recognized as a reinsurer in accordance with § 223.12, except for any reinsurer who is required by a U.S. state to post 100 percent collateral;
(iii) A pool, association, etc., to the extent that it is composed of such companies; or
(iv) An instrumentality or agency of the United States that is permitted by Federal law or regulation to execute reinsurance contracts.
(3) Limitation. No certificate-holding company may cede to a reinsuring company recognized under § 223.12 any single risk in excess of 10 percent of the latter company's paid-up capital and surplus.
Limitation.
No certificate-holding company may cede to a reinsuring company recognized under § 223.12 any single risk in excess of 10 percent of the latter company's paid-up capital and surplus.
(c) Other methods. With respect to all risks other than bonds required to be furnished to the United States by the Miller Act (40 U.S.C. 3131, as amended), which must be either coinsured or reinsured in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section respectively, the excess liability may be protected:
Other methods.
With respect to all risks other than bonds required to be furnished to the United States by the Miller Act (40 U.S.C. 3131, as amended), which must be either coinsured or reinsured in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section respectively, the excess liability may be protected:
(1) By the deposit with the company in pledge, or by conveyance to it in trust for its protection, of assets admitted by Treasury, the current market value of which is at least equal to the liability in excess of its underwriting limitation. Treasury may, on a case-by-case basis, consider a letter of credit provided by a financial institution to be adequate security under this paragraph (c) if Treasury can verify that the assets referenced in the letter of credit are pledged exclusively to secure the excess risk, and if the letter of credit meets other requirements Treasury might prescribe. Assets used to protect excess liability pursuant to this paragraph (c) cannot also be used to obtain credit for reinsurance pursuant to § 223.9(c).; or
(2) If such obligation was incurred on behalf of or on account of a fiduciary holding property in a trust capacity, by a joint control agreement providing that the whole or a sufficient portion of the property so held may not be disposed of or pledged in any way without the consent of the insuring company.
[[89 FR 48834, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.12   Recognition as reinsurer.

(a) Use of recognized reinsurers. Companies holding a certificate of authority may:
Use of recognized reinsurers.
Companies holding a certificate of authority may:
(1) Receive credit for reinsurance ceded to a reinsurer recognized pursuant to this section, as described in § 223.9(c); and
(2) Protect liability in excess of their underwriting limit on risks not running to the United States by reinsuring excess liability with a reinsurer recognized pursuant to this section.
(b) Application. Every company applying for recognition by Treasury as one of the categories of reinsurers in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section, or annual renewal of such recognition, shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/. The applicant company must submit the documentation and must meet the requirements as outlined in this section and in supplemental guidance published by Treasury on its website.
Application.
Every company applying for recognition by Treasury as one of the categories of reinsurers in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section, or annual renewal of such recognition, shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/.
The applicant company must submit the documentation and must meet the requirements as outlined in this section and in supplemental guidance published by Treasury on its website.
(c) Treasury recognition. Recognition by Treasury will be effective for a term that expires on the last day of the following October. A list of reinsuring companies so recognized by Treasury will be published online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/.
Treasury recognition.
Recognition by Treasury will be effective for a term that expires on the last day of the following October. A list of reinsuring companies so recognized by Treasury will be published online at
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/.
(d) Notice to Treasury. Each company recognized pursuant to this section shall immediately notify Treasury if a U.S. state takes action to suspend or revoke the company's license or its status or eligibility as an Accredited Reinsurer, Certified Reinsurer, or Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer, or if the company notifies a U.S. state that a supervisory authority in its domiciliary jurisdiction takes regulatory action against it for serious noncompliance with applicable law (as determined by the supervisory authority in its domiciliary jurisdiction).
Notice to Treasury.
Each company recognized pursuant to this section shall immediately notify Treasury if a U.S. state takes action to suspend or revoke the company's license or its status or eligibility as an Accredited Reinsurer, Certified Reinsurer, or Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer, or if the company notifies a U.S. state that a supervisory authority in its domiciliary jurisdiction takes regulatory action against it for serious noncompliance with applicable law (as determined by the supervisory authority in its domiciliary jurisdiction).
(e) Eligibility. A company is not eligible for recognition under this section if it only insures or reinsures risks of its parent, affiliated, or controlled unaffiliated business, or is deemed by Treasury to be primarily engaged in self-insurance.
Eligibility.
A company is not eligible for recognition under this section if it only insures or reinsures risks of its parent, affiliated, or controlled unaffiliated business, or is deemed by Treasury to be primarily engaged in self-insurance.
(f) Guidance. Treasury may issue supplemental guidance regarding the timing, form, content, and its analysis of the submissions required pursuant to this section. Such guidance will be posted on its website.
Guidance.
Treasury may issue supplemental guidance regarding the timing, form, content, and its analysis of the submissions required pursuant to this section. Such guidance will be posted on its website.
(g) Noncompliance. Noncompliance with the requirements of this section may result in a company's application for recognition, or for renewal of its recognition, being denied.
Noncompliance.
Noncompliance with the requirements of this section may result in a company's application for recognition, or for renewal of its recognition, being denied.
(h) Admitted reinsurers—(1) Application for recognition by U.S. company. Any company organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, wishing to apply for recognition as an admitted reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the United States, shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/. The company shall file the following data with Treasury and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
Admitted reinsurers
—(1)
Application for recognition by U.S. company.
Any company organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, wishing to apply for recognition as an admitted reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the United States, shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/.
The company shall file the following data with Treasury and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
(i) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22;
(ii) A written request for recognition as an admitted reinsurer, signed by an officer of the company. This request must indicate:
(A) The reason for applying for recognition;
(B) Whether the company has ever previously applied for recognition as an admitted reinsurer, whether Treasury approved the application, and the applicable dates; and
(C) If Treasury previously approved the company for recognition as an admitted reinsurer, the reason for termination of its recognition and the applicable date;
(iii) A certified copy of its charter or articles of incorporation with all amendments as of the date of application showing the legal name of the company and that it is authorized to write reinsurance;
(iv) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and directors as of the date of application, including a biographical affidavit of each officer and director per instructions online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/;
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/;
(v) A certified copy of a license from any one state in which it has been authorized to do business showing its authority to write reinsurance and/or other lines of insurance;
(vi) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by its domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
(vii) Annual statements of its financial condition, as of the close of the last two full years preceding the date of application, on the annual statement form of the NAIC with all Schedules and Exhibits completed, including copies of the NAIC File Upload, showing that it has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in cash or its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or has net assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all liabilities, in the case of a mutual insurance company. The Annual Financial Statement's Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile signatures are acceptable) by the company President, Secretary, and a Notary Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
(viii) IRIS ratio results, and an explanation for any ratios outside the normal ranges as established by the NAIC for the last two years preceding the date of application;
(ix) A memorandum setting forth the company's method of operation, including lines of business written, the company's underwriting and claims philosophy, and significant changes in the company's operations or corporate structure that impact its financial statements;
(x) A completed Treasury Schedule F (Form No. TFS 6314), as referenced in § 223.9(c) for two years preceding the date of application;
(xi) A Statement of Actuarial Opinion as of the close of the last two years preceding the date of application provided by a qualified actuary, as defined by the NAIC, on the adequacy of all loss reserves with the scope and format of the statement also conforming to the requirements of the NAIC; and
(xii) Such other evidence as Treasury may request to establish that the company is solvent and able to meet the continuing obligation to carry out its contracts. Treasury will publish supplemental guidance annually regarding evidence it may require, submission methods, and format of the data listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (xi) of this section.
(2) Application by a U.S. branch. A U.S. branch of a non-U.S. company applying for recognition as an admitted reinsurer must file the following data with Treasury, and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
Application by a U.S. branch.
A U.S. branch of a non-U.S. company applying for recognition as an admitted reinsurer must file the following data with Treasury, and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
(i) The submissions listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (xii) of this section, except that the financial statement of such branch shall show that it has net assets of not less than $250,000 over and above all liabilities; and
(ii) Evidence satisfactory to Treasury to establish that it has on deposit in the United States not less than $250,000 available to its policyholders and creditors in the United States.
(3) Application for renewal of recognition as an admitted reinsurer. Any company recognized pursuant to paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section wishing to apply for renewal of its recognition shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/. The company must file the following data with Treasury and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
Application for renewal of recognition as an admitted reinsurer.
Any company recognized pursuant to paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section wishing to apply for renewal of its recognition shall submit an application to Treasury, c/o Surety Bonds Program, to the location, and in the manner, specified online at
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/.
The company must file the following data with Treasury and shall transmit therewith the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22:
(i) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22;
(ii) A copy of the latest available report of its examination by its domiciliary State Insurance Department including a copy of company responses to any significant findings or recommendations;
(iii) Annual statements of its financial condition, as of the close of the preceding year, on the annual statement form of the NAIC with all Schedules and Exhibits completed, including copies of the NAIC File Upload, showing that it has paid-up capital of at least $250,000 in cash or its equivalent, in the case of a stock insurance company, or has net assets of not less than $500,000 over and above all liabilities, in the case of a mutual insurance company. The Annual Financial Statement's Jurat Page (only) is to be signed (facsimile signatures are acceptable) by the company President, Secretary, and a Notary Public who shall also affix a notary seal;
(iv) IRIS ratio results, and an explanation for any ratios outside the normal ranges as established by the NAIC as of the close of the preceding year;
(v) A completed Treasury Schedule F (Form No. TFS 6314), as referenced in § 223.9(c) as of the close of the preceding year;
(vi) A Statement of Actuarial Opinion as of the close of the preceding year provided by a qualified actuary, as defined by the NAIC, on the adequacy of all loss reserves with the scope and format of the statement also conforming to the requirements of the NAIC;
(vii) A listing of the names of the company's current officers and directors as of the close of the preceding year, including a biographical affidavit of each new officer and director per instructions online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/; and
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/;
and
(viii) Such other evidence as Treasury may request to establish that the company is solvent and able to meet the continuing obligation to carry out its contracts. Treasury will publish supplemental guidance annually regarding evidence it may require, submission methods, and format of the data listed in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Complementary reinsurers. Any company may apply for recognition as a complementary reinsurer or annual renewal of such recognition provided the company is licensed to write reinsurance by and has its head office in (or is domiciled in) a non-U.S. jurisdiction that is subject to an in-force Covered Agreement entered into with the United States pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 313-314, which Covered Agreement addresses the elimination, under specified conditions, of collateral requirements as a condition for entering into any reinsurance agreement with a ceding insurer domiciled in a U.S. state or for allowing the ceding insurer to recognize credit for reinsurance. To obtain recognition as a complementary reinsurer, the company must submit to Treasury the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22 and must:
Complementary reinsurers.
Any company may apply for recognition as a complementary reinsurer or annual renewal of such recognition provided the company is licensed to write reinsurance by and has its head office in (or is domiciled in) a non-U.S. jurisdiction that is subject to an in-force Covered Agreement entered into with the United States pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 313-314, which Covered Agreement addresses the elimination, under specified conditions, of collateral requirements as a condition for entering into any reinsurance agreement with a ceding insurer domiciled in a U.S. state or for allowing the ceding insurer to recognize credit for reinsurance. To obtain recognition as a complementary reinsurer, the company must submit to Treasury the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22 and must:
(1) Meet and maintain all capital and surplus, solvency, and market conduct requirements under the applicable Covered Agreement;
(2) Be recognized by at least one U.S. state as a Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer, as defined by the state's credit for reinsurance law or regulation based on the NAIC's Credit for Reinsurance Model Law and Regulation, and submit proof of such recognition; and
(3) Submit to Treasury:
(i) For initial applications for recognition, all information provided by the company or by the supervisory authority of the company's domiciliary jurisdiction to any U.S. state regulator in the two most recently completed calendar years.
(ii) For applications for renewal of recognition, all semi-annual and annual filing information provided by the company or by the supervisory authority of the company's domiciliary jurisdiction to any U.S. state regulator in the most recently completed calendar year.
(iii) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22.
(j) Alien reinsurers. Any company may apply for recognition or annual renewal of such recognition as an alien reinsurer, provided it is licensed to write reinsurance by, and has its head office or domicile in, a non-U.S. jurisdiction that is recognized by a U.S. state as a Qualified Jurisdiction or as a Reciprocal Jurisdiction, provided that the Reciprocal Jurisdiction is not party to an in-force Covered Agreement as described in paragraph (i) of this section. Treasury may also consider, if it deems appropriate, the lists of Qualified and Reciprocal Jurisdictions most recently published through the relevant NAIC committee when determining a company's eligibility for recognition pursuant to this paragraph (j). To obtain such recognition, the company must submit to Treasury the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22 and must:
Alien reinsurers.
Any company may apply for recognition or annual renewal of such recognition as an alien reinsurer, provided it is licensed to write reinsurance by, and has its head office or domicile in, a non-U.S. jurisdiction that is recognized by a U.S. state as a Qualified Jurisdiction or as a Reciprocal Jurisdiction, provided that the Reciprocal Jurisdiction is not party to an in-force Covered Agreement as described in paragraph (i) of this section. Treasury may also consider, if it deems appropriate, the lists of Qualified and Reciprocal Jurisdictions most recently published through the relevant NAIC committee when determining a company's eligibility for recognition pursuant to this paragraph (j). To obtain such recognition, the company must submit to Treasury the fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22 and must:
(1) Be recognized by at least one U.S. state as an “Accredited Reinsurer,” “Certified Reinsurer,” or a “Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer,” as defined by the state's credit for reinsurance law or regulation based on the NAIC's Credit for Reinsurance Model Law and Regulation, and submit proof of such recognition;
(2) Meet and maintain all capital and surplus, market conduct, and other requirements for eligibility as an “Accredited Reinsurer,” “Certified Reinsurer,” or “Reciprocal Jurisdiction Reinsurer” in accordance with the law and regulation of all U.S. states granting it such recognition; and
(3) Submit to Treasury:
(i) For initial applications for recognition, all information provided to any U.S. state regulator in the two most recently completed calendar years.
(ii) For applications for renewal of such recognition, all annual filing information provided to any U.S. state regulator in the most recently completed calendar year.
(iii) Payment of the application fee in accordance with the provisions of § 223.22.
[[89 FR 48835, June 10, 2024]]

§§ 223.13-223.14   [Reserved]


§ 223.15   Paid-up capital and surplus for Treasury rating purposes; how determined.

Treasury determines the amount of paid-up capital and surplus of any company holding or seeking a certificate of authority or recognized (or seeking recognition) as an admitted reinsurer pursuant to § 223.12(h) on an insurance accounting basis under the regulations in this part, from the company's financial statements and other information, or by such examination of the company at its own expense as Treasury may deem appropriate.
[[89 FR 48837, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.16   List of certificate holding companies.

A list of certificate holding companies is published annually as of August 1 in Department Circular No. 570, Companies Holding Certificates of Authority as Acceptable Sureties on Federal Bonds and as Acceptable Reinsuring Companies, with information as to underwriting limitations, areas in which listed sureties are licensed to transact surety business, and other details. If Treasury shall take any exceptions to the financial statements submitted by a company or other information pertinent to the company's financial solvency, before issuing Department Circular 570, Treasury shall give a company due notice of such exceptions. Copies of the Circular are available at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/list-certified-companies.html, or from the Surety Bonds Program, upon request. Bonds underwritten by certified companies on the Department Circular No. 570 list may be presented to an agency bond-approving official for acceptance. Selection of a particular qualified company from among all companies holding certificates of authority is discretionary with the principal required to furnish the bond, but the acceptance of a bond by an agency bond-approving official is subject to § 223.17.
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/list-certified-companies.html,
or from the Surety Bonds Program, upon request. Bonds underwritten by certified companies on the Department Circular No. 570 list may be presented to an agency bond-approving official for acceptance. Selection of a particular qualified company from among all companies holding certificates of authority is discretionary with the principal required to furnish the bond, but the acceptance of a bond by an agency bond-approving official is subject to § 223.17.
[[79 FR 62001, Oct. 16, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 48837, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.17   Acceptance and non-acceptance of bonds.

(a) Acceptance of bonds. A bond underwritten by a certified company on the § 223.16 Department Circular No. 570 list may be presented to any agency-bond approving official for acceptance, and such agency bond-approving official may accept such bonds.
Acceptance of bonds.
A bond underwritten by a certified company on the § 223.16 Department Circular No. 570 list may be presented to any agency-bond approving official for acceptance, and such agency bond-approving official may accept such bonds.
(b) Non-acceptance of bonds. (1) An agency bond-approving official may decline to accept bonds underwritten by a certified company for cause, but only if the company has been given advance written notice by such agency. The advance written notice shall:
Non-acceptance of bonds.
(1) An agency bond-approving official may decline to accept bonds underwritten by a certified company for cause, but only if the company has been given advance written notice by such agency. The advance written notice shall:
(i) State the intention of the agency to decline bonds underwritten by the company;
(ii) State the reasons for or cause of the proposed declination of such bonds;
(iii) Provide the company with an opportunity to rebut the stated reasons or cause; and
(iv) Provide the company with an opportunity to cure the stated reasons or cause.
(2) The agency may decline to accept bonds underwritten by the company if, after consideration of any submission by the company or failure of the company to respond to the agency's notice, the agency issues a written determination that the bonds should not be accepted, consistent with agency authorities.
(3) The agency shall articulate its procedures and for cause standards for declining to accept bonds in an agency regulation prior to declining any bonds in specific cases. The agency regulation should be subject to notice and comment rulemaking. “For cause” includes, but is not limited to, circumstances when a surety has not paid or satisfied an administratively final bond obligation due the agency. The agency regulation should define when a bond obligation becomes administratively final under the agency's procedures. Existing agency rules or regulations that substantially comply with, or that are consistent with, the requirement to articulate procedures and standards in advance meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(4) Agencies that decline bonds under this section are encouraged to use best efforts to ensure that persons conducting business with the agency are aware that bonds underwritten by the particular certified company will not be accepted.
(5) The agency's authority to decline bonds under this section does not apply:
(i) When the underlying obligation or other for cause reason that forms the basis for the agency's written determination to decline bonds under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or the agency written determination to decline bonds, has been stayed or enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction, or
(ii) To otherwise acceptable payment and performance contract bonds, when the agency has already accepted a project bid bond on a contract before making the written determination under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(6) Notwithstanding any provision of this section, an agency bond-approving official may decline a bond from a Treasury-certified surety without advance notice if the bond is not executed in proper form, or is not in the correct penal sum amount, or is otherwise technically deficient on its face.
[[79 FR 62001, Oct. 16, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 48837, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.18   Revocation.

(a) Treasury may initiate a revocation proceeding against a Treasury-certified company in one of two ways:
(1) Treasury, of its own accord, under § 223.19, may initiate revocation proceedings against the company when it has reason to believe that the company is not complying with 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308 and/or the regulations under this part; or
(2) Treasury, under § 223.20, may initiate revocation proceedings against the company upon receipt of a complaint from an agency that the company has not paid or satisfied one or more administratively final bond obligations due the agency.
(b) A revocation of a company's certificate of authority under § 223.19 or § 223.20 precludes the company from underwriting or reinsuring additional bonds for any agency, and therefore revokes the company's opportunity to have its bonds presented to any agency bond-approving official for acceptance.
[[79 FR 62001, Oct. 16, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 48837, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.19   Treasury-initiated revocation proceedings.

Whenever Treasury has reason to believe that a company is not complying with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308 and/or the regulations under this part, including but not limited to a failure to satisfy corporate and financial standards, Treasury shall:
(a) Notify the company of the facts or conduct which indicate such non-compliance, and provide the company an opportunity to respond, and
(b) Revoke a company's certificate of authority after providing notice to the company if:
(1) The company does not respond satisfactorily to Treasury's notification of non-compliance, or
(2) The company responded, was provided an opportunity to demonstrate or achieve compliance, and failed to do so.
[[79 FR 62001, Oct. 16, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 48837, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.20   Revocation proceedings initiated by Treasury upon receipt of an agency complaint.

(a) Agency complaint. If an agency determines that a company has not promptly made full payment or fully satisfied one or more bond obligations naming the agency as obligee, the head of the agency, or his or her designee, may submit a written complaint to the designated Treasury official (with executive oversight over the Treasury surety program, at the Assistant Commissioner level or equivalent), requesting that the company's certificate of authority be revoked for nonperformance. Under such complaint, the agency shall certify that:
Agency complaint.
If an agency determines that a company has not promptly made full payment or fully satisfied one or more bond obligations naming the agency as obligee, the head of the agency, or his or her designee, may submit a written complaint to the designated Treasury official (with executive oversight over the Treasury surety program, at the Assistant Commissioner level or equivalent), requesting that the company's certificate of authority be revoked for nonperformance. Under such complaint, the agency shall certify that:
(1) The bond obligations that are the subject of the complaint are administratively final under the agency's regulations or other authorities;
(2) The company has not paid or satisfied those bond obligations; and
(3) The company's obligation to pay or satisfy the bond obligations has not been stayed or enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b) Documentation of complaint. The agency shall include in its complaint copies of the bonds, and documentation indicating that, for each such bond provided:
Documentation of complaint.
The agency shall include in its complaint copies of the bonds, and documentation indicating that, for each such bond provided:
(1) The agency has determined, consistent with agency authorities, the principal is in default on the obligation covered by the bond. Alternatively, if the default has been litigated, documentation indicating a court of competent jurisdiction has determined the principal is in default;
(2) The agency made a written demand with the company on the bond requesting payment or satisfaction on its own behalf, consistent with agency authorities, or on behalf of laborers, materialmen, or suppliers (on payment bonds), based on the default status of the principal;
(3) The agency afforded the company the opportunity to request administrative review within the agency contesting the agency's demand on the bond;
(4) The agency made a final administrative determination that the bond obligation was due after the completion of such administrative review, or after the time period for the company to request administrative review within the agency has expired;
(5) The agency provided the company the opportunity to enter into a written agreement to pay or satisfy the bond; and
(6) The company has not made full payment or fully satisfied the demand, and the claim on the bond is past due.
(c) Notice to company. On receipt of a complaint meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, Treasury will notify the company of the agency complaint. The notice will require the company to submit a written explanatory response to Treasury within 20 business days of the date of the notice. The notice will advise the company of the facts and conduct referenced in the complaint. Treasury will attach a copy of the incoming complaint to the notice. The notice will afford the company the opportunity to address the complaint and demonstrate its qualifications to retain its certificate of authority.
Notice to company.
On receipt of a complaint meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, Treasury will notify the company of the agency complaint. The notice will require the company to submit a written explanatory response to Treasury within 20 business days of the date of the notice. The notice will advise the company of the facts and conduct referenced in the complaint. Treasury will attach a copy of the incoming complaint to the notice. The notice will afford the company the opportunity to address the complaint and demonstrate its qualifications to retain its certificate of authority.
(d) Reviewing official and deciding official. The designated Treasury official (with executive oversight over the Treasury surety program, at the Assistant Commissioner level or equivalent) will appoint a Treasury Reviewing Official to conduct a review of the agency complaint referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and the company response referenced in paragraph (c) of this section, to determine whether revocation of the company's certificate of authority is warranted. To ensure appropriate consideration of relevant factual or legal issues, the Reviewing Official is authorized to require the submission of additional documentation from the complaining agency and the company. Upon completion of such review, the Reviewing Official shall prepare a written Recommendation Memorandum addressed to the designated Treasury official setting forth findings and a recommended disposition. The designated Treasury official will be the Deciding Official who will make the final decision whether the company's certificate of authority to write and reinsure bonds should be revoked based on the administrative record. The administrative record consists of the agency complaint referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the company response referenced in paragraph (c) of this section, any other documentation submitted to, or considered by, the Reviewing Official, and the Reviewing Official's Recommendation Memorandum.
Reviewing official and deciding official.
The designated Treasury official (with executive oversight over the Treasury surety program, at the Assistant Commissioner level or equivalent) will appoint a Treasury Reviewing Official to conduct a review of the agency complaint referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and the company response referenced in paragraph (c) of this section, to determine whether revocation of the company's certificate of authority is warranted. To ensure appropriate consideration of relevant factual or legal issues, the Reviewing Official is authorized to require the submission of additional documentation from the complaining agency and the company. Upon completion of such review, the Reviewing Official shall prepare a written Recommendation Memorandum addressed to the designated Treasury official setting forth findings and a recommended disposition. The designated Treasury official will be the Deciding Official who will make the final decision whether the company's certificate of authority to write and reinsure bonds should be revoked based on the administrative record. The administrative record consists of the agency complaint referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the company response referenced in paragraph (c) of this section, any other documentation submitted to, or considered by, the Reviewing Official, and the Reviewing Official's Recommendation Memorandum.
(e) Final decision. (1) If the Deciding Official's final decision is that revocation is not warranted, the company and the agency will be notified of the basis of this decision and the complaint against the company will be dismissed.
Final decision.
(1) If the Deciding Official's final decision is that revocation is not warranted, the company and the agency will be notified of the basis of this decision and the complaint against the company will be dismissed.
(2) If the Deciding Official's final decision is that the company's certificate of authority shall be revoked, the Deciding Official will notify the company and the agency of the revocation decision and the basis for such decision. Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the notice will afford the company an opportunity to cure its noncompliance by paying or satisfying the bonds (including payment of any interest, penalties, and fees) forming the basis of the final decision within 20 business days. If the company cures its noncompliance within 20 business days, the complaint against the company will be deemed moot and the company will retain its certificate of authority to write Federal bonds. If the company does not cure its noncompliance within 20 business days, the company's certificate of authority shall be revoked by Treasury without further notice.
(f) Standard of review. In reviewing whether the revocation of the company's certificate of authority is warranted under this section, the Reviewing Official will recommend, and the Deciding Official will determine, whether the default is clear and whether the company's failure to pay or satisfy the bonds is based on inadequate grounds.
Standard of review.
In reviewing whether the revocation of the company's certificate of authority is warranted under this section, the Reviewing Official will recommend, and the Deciding Official will determine, whether the default is clear and whether the company's failure to pay or satisfy the bonds is based on inadequate grounds.
(g) Consideration of willful conduct. The company is not entitled to an opportunity to cure its noncompliance if its conduct in failing to carry out its contracts is willful. For purposes of this regulation, “willful” means a careless or reckless disregard of a known legal obligation to satisfy an administratively final bond obligation. In considering whether a company's conduct is willful, the Deciding Official may consider whether:
Consideration of willful conduct.
The company is not entitled to an opportunity to cure its noncompliance if its conduct in failing to carry out its contracts is willful. For purposes of this regulation, “willful” means a careless or reckless disregard of a known legal obligation to satisfy an administratively final bond obligation. In considering whether a company's conduct is willful, the Deciding Official may consider whether:
(1) An agency has filed a prior complaint with Treasury requesting that the company's certificate be revoked for a substantially similar bond obligation;
(2) The company asserted substantially similar defenses to such bond obligation;
(3) Such defenses were considered by the agency under pertinent authorities and dismissed;
(4) Treasury made a final decision that revocation of the company's certificate was justified; and
(5) Other pertinent factors.
(h) Informal hearing. (1) If a company that is the subject of a complaint under paragraph (a) and (b) of this section believes the opportunity to make known its views, as provided for under paragraph (c) of this section, is inadequate, it may, within 20 business days of the date of the notice required by paragraph (c), request, in writing, that an informal hearing be convened.
Informal hearing.
(1) If a company that is the subject of a complaint under paragraph (a) and (b) of this section believes the opportunity to make known its views, as provided for under paragraph (c) of this section, is inadequate, it may, within 20 business days of the date of the notice required by paragraph (c), request, in writing, that an informal hearing be convened.
(2) As soon as possible after a written request for an informal hearing is received, the Reviewing Official shall convene an informal hearing, at such time and place as he or she deems appropriate, for the purpose of determining whether the company's certificate of authority should be revoked.
(3) The company shall be advised, in writing, of the time and place of the informal hearing and shall be directed to bring all documents, records and other information as it may find necessary and relevant to support its position.
(4) The company may be represented by counsel and shall have a fair opportunity to present any relevant material and to examine the administrative record.
(5) The complaining agency may be requested by the Reviewing Official to send a representative to the hearing to present any relevant material, and the agency representative may examine the administrative record.
(6) The Reviewing Official is authorized to require the submission of additional documentation from the complaining agency and the company to ensure appropriate consideration of relevant factual or legal issues.
(7) Formal rules of evidence will not apply at the informal hearing.
(8) The formal adjudication standards under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 554, 556, and 557, do not apply to the informal hearing or adjudication process.
(9) Treasury may promulgate additional procedural guidance governing the conduct of informal hearings.
(10) Upon completion of the informal hearing, the Reviewing Official shall prepare a written Recommendation Memorandum addressed to the Deciding Official setting forth findings and a recommended disposition. The Deciding Official will make the final decision whether the company's certificate of authority to write and reinsure Federal bonds should be revoked based on the administrative record. The administrative record consists of the Federal agency complaint referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the company response referenced in paragraph (c), any other documentation submitted to, considered by, or entered into the administrative record by the Reviewing Official, the hearing transcript, and the Reviewing Official's Recommendation Memorandum.
(11) The provisions of paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section shall apply to the adjudication of the agency complaint when an informal hearing is conducted.
[[79 FR 62002, Oct. 16, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 48838, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.21   Reinstatement.

If, after one year from the date that Treasury notifies the company of its decision to decline to renew or revoke the certificate of authority of a company under this part, the company can demonstrate that the basis for the non-renewal or revocation has been cured, as determined by Treasury in its discretion, and that it can comply with, and does meet, all continuing requirements for certification under 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308 and this part, the company may submit an application to Treasury for reinstatement or reissuance of a certificate of authority, which will be granted without prejudice if all such requirements are met. Treasury may waive the one year waiting period for good cause shown, as determined by Treasury in its sole discretion.
[[89 FR 48838, June 10, 2024]]

§ 223.22   Fees for service of the Treasury Department.

(a) Fees shall be imposed and collected, for the services listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section that are performed by Treasury, regardless of whether the action requested is granted or denied. An online payment portal is provided at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/. The amount of the fee will be based on which of the following categories of service is requested:
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/.
The amount of the fee will be based on which of the following categories of service is requested:
(1) Examination of a company's application for a certificate of authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds or for a certificate of authority as an acceptable reinsuring company on such bonds (see § 223.2(a));
(2) Examination of a company's application for recognition as an admitted reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the United States (see § 223.12(h));
(3) Examination of a company's application for recognition as a complementary reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the United States (see § 223.12(i));
(4) Examination of a company's application for recognition as an alien reinsurer of surety companies doing business with the United States (see § 223.12(j));
(5) Determination of a company's continuing qualifications for annual renewal of its certificate of authority (see § 223.2(b)); or
(6) Determination of a company's continuing qualifications for annual renewal of its recognition as an admitted reinsurer, complementary reinsurer, or alien reinsurer (see § 223.12).
(b) In a given year a uniform fee will be collected from every company requesting a particular category of service, e.g., determination of a company's continuing qualifications for annual renewal of its certificate of authority. However, Treasury reserves the right to redetermine the amounts of fees annually. Fees are determined in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular A-25, as amended.
(c) Specific fee information may be obtained from the Surety Bonds Program, or online at https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/files/surety-bonds/user-fees.pdf. In addition, a notice of the amount of a fee referred to in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section will be published in the Federal Register as each change in such fee is made.
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/files/surety-bonds/user-fees.pdf.
In addition, a notice of the amount of a fee referred to in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section will be published in the
Federal Register
as each change in such fee is made.
[[89 FR 48838, June 10, 2024]]

PART 224—FEDERAL PROCESS AGENTS OF SURETY CORPORATIONS

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 9306 and 9307.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9306 and 9307.
[Source:71 FR 60848, Oct. 7, 2006, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
71 FR 60848, Oct. 7, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

§ 224.1   What does this part cover?

This part provides guidance on when a surety corporation must appoint a service of process agent and how the surety corporation complies with this requirement.

§ 224.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this regulation:
(a) Principal means the person or entity required to provide a surety bond.
Principal
means the person or entity required to provide a surety bond.
(b) Process agent means a resident agent for service of process.
Process agent
means a resident agent for service of process.
(c) State means a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States.
State
means a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States.

§ 224.3   When may a surety corporation provide a bond without appointing a process agent?

A surety corporation may provide a bond without appointing a process agent when the State where the bond is filed, the State where the principal resides, and the State where the surety corporation is incorporated are the same.

§ 224.4   When must a surety corporation appoint a process agent?

A surety corporation must appoint a process agent when either the State where the bond is filed or the State where the principal resides is different from the State where the surety corporation is incorporated. In such a case, the surety corporation must appoint a process agent in each such State that is different from the State where the surety is incorporated.

§ 224.5   Who may a surety corporation appoint to be a process agent?

A surety corporation may appoint either of the following as process agent—(a) An official of the State who is authorized or appointed under the law of that jurisdiction to receive service of process on the surety corporation; or
(b) An individual who resides in the jurisdiction of the district court for the district in which a surety bond is filed and who is appointed by the surety corporation by means of a power of attorney. A certified copy of the power of attorney must be filed with the clerk of the district court for the district in which a surety bond is to be provided. In addition, the surety corporation must provide the clerk of the United States District Court at the main office in each judicial district with the required number of authenticated copies of the power of attorney for each divisional office of the court within that judicial district.

§ 224.6   Where can I find a sample power of attorney form?

The Surety Bond Branch provides a sample form on its Web page located at: http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/c570. While use of the sample form is not required, any power of attorney provided should be substantially the same as the sample form.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/c570.
While use of the sample form is not required, any power of attorney provided should be substantially the same as the sample form.

§ 224.7   Where can I find a list of United States district court offices?

A list of the divisional offices of the court in each judicial district may be obtained from the Federal Judiciary, U.S. Courts Web page at http://www.uscourts.gov, or by mail by writing to: Office of Public Affairs, Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, Washington, DC 20544.
http://www.uscourts.gov
, or by mail by writing to: Office of Public Affairs, Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, Washington, DC 20544.

§ 224.8   When must a surety corporation appoint a new process agent?

The surety corporation must immediately appoint a new process agent whenever the authority of a process agent is terminated by reason of revocation, disability, removal from the district, or any other cause.

PART 225—ACCEPTANCE OF BONDS SECURED BY GOVERNMENT OBLIGATIONS IN LIEU OF BONDS WITH SURETIES

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321, 9301 and 9303.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321, 9301 and 9303.
[Source:64 FR 4763, Jan. 29, 1999, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
64 FR 4763, Jan. 29, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

§ 225.1   Scope.

The regulation in this part applies to Government agencies accepting bonds secured by Government obligations in lieu of bonds with sureties. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service) is the representative of the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary) in all matters concerning this part unless otherwise specified. The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service may issue procedural instructions implementing this regulation.

§ 225.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:
Agency means a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government.
Agency
means a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government.
Authenticate instructions means to verify that the instructions received are from a bond official.
Authenticate instructions
means to verify that the instructions received are from a bond official.
Bearer means that ownership of a Government obligation is not recorded. Title to such an obligation passes by delivery without endorsement and without notice. A bearer obligation is payable on its face to the holder at either maturity or call.
Bearer
means that ownership of a Government obligation is not recorded. Title to such an obligation passes by delivery without endorsement and without notice. A bearer obligation is payable on its face to the holder at either maturity or call.
Bond means an executed written instrument, which guarantees the fulfillment of an obligation to the United States and sets forth the terms, conditions, and stipulations of the obligation.
Bond
means an executed written instrument, which guarantees the fulfillment of an obligation to the United States and sets forth the terms, conditions, and stipulations of the obligation.
Bond official means an agency official having authority under Federal law or regulation to approve a bond with surety or sureties and to approve a bond secured by Government obligations.
Bond official
means an agency official having authority under Federal law or regulation to approve a bond with surety or sureties and to approve a bond secured by Government obligations.
Book-entry means that the issuance and maintenance of a Government obligation is represented by an accounting entry or electronic record and not by a certificate.
Book-entry
means that the issuance and maintenance of a Government obligation is represented by an accounting entry or electronic record and not by a certificate.
Custodian means a Federal Reserve Bank or an entity within the United States designated by such Federal Reserve Bank under terms and conditions prescribed by such Federal Reserve Bank, a depositary specifically designated by the Secretary of the Treasury for purposes of this part, or such other entities as the Secretary of the Treasury may designate for purposes of this part.
Custodian
means a Federal Reserve Bank or an entity within the United States designated by such Federal Reserve Bank under terms and conditions prescribed by such Federal Reserve Bank, a depositary specifically designated by the Secretary of the Treasury for purposes of this part, or such other entities as the Secretary of the Treasury may designate for purposes of this part.
Definitive means that a Government obligation is issued in engraved or printed form.
Definitive
means that a Government obligation is issued in engraved or printed form.
Depositary includes, but is not limited to:
Depositary
includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Any insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(3) Any savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(4) Any insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752) or any credit union which is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union under section 201 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1781);
(5) Any savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) which is an insured depository institution (as defined in such Act) (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.); and
et seq.
) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
); and
(6) Any agency or branch of a foreign bank as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101).
Federal Reserve means a Federal Reserve Bank and its branches.
Federal Reserve
means a Federal Reserve Bank and its branches.
Government obligation means a public debt obligation of the United States Government and an obligation whose principal and interest is unconditionally guaranteed by the United States Government.
Government obligation
means a public debt obligation of the United States Government and an obligation whose principal and interest is unconditionally guaranteed by the United States Government.
Obligor includes, but is not limited to, an individual, a trust, an estate, a partnership, a corporation, and a sole proprietor.
Obligor
includes, but is not limited to, an individual, a trust, an estate, a partnership, a corporation, and a sole proprietor.
Officer authorized to certify assignment means the individual identified as a certifying individual at part 306, subpart F of this title.
Officer authorized to certify assignment
means the individual identified as a certifying individual at part 306, subpart F of this title.
Person means an individual, a trust, an estate, a partnership, and a corporation.
Person
means an individual, a trust, an estate, a partnership, and a corporation.
Pledge means a transfer of security interest in a Government obligation to a bond official's agency as collateral in lieu of a bond with a surety or sureties.
Pledge
means a transfer of security interest in a Government obligation to a bond official's agency as collateral in lieu of a bond with a surety or sureties.
Procedural instructions means the Treasury Financial Manual, as amended, published by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
Procedural instructions
means the Treasury Financial Manual, as amended, published by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
Registered means that ownership of a definitive Government obligation is listed in the issuer's records, and that the obligation is payable at maturity or call to the person in whose name the obligation is inscribed or to that person's assignee.
Registered
means that ownership of a definitive Government obligation is listed in the issuer's records, and that the obligation is payable at maturity or call to the person in whose name the obligation is inscribed or to that person's assignee.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 225.3   Pledge of Government obligations in lieu of a bond with surety or sureties.

(a) General. An obligor required by Federal law or regulation to furnish a bond with surety or sureties may give in lieu thereof to a bond official any security acceptable under 31 U.S.C. 9301, as amended. The Secretary will designate classes of Government obligations acceptable under this part.
General.
An obligor required by Federal law or regulation to furnish a bond with surety or sureties may give in lieu thereof to a bond official any security acceptable under 31 U.S.C. 9301, as amended. The Secretary will designate classes of Government obligations acceptable under this part.
(b) Bond. The bond, at a minimum, shall irrevocably authorize the bond official to collect, sell, assign, or transfer such Government obligations and any interest retained therefrom in the event of the obligor's default in performing any of the terms, conditions, or stipulations of such bond. Unless otherwise provided by law, the bond shall authorize the bond official to apply the proceeds from the sale, assignment, or transfer of such Government obligations, in whole or in part, to satisfy any costs incurred by the United States related to the default, and to apply any excess proceeds to satisfy any other claim of the United States against the obligor. The bond shall not include any obligations on custodians which are inconsistent with, or in addition to, the obligations in this part. The bond will provide that the bond official may retain any interest accruing upon any Government obligations, or direct that such interest be retained by the custodian.
Bond.
The bond, at a minimum, shall irrevocably authorize the bond official to collect, sell, assign, or transfer such Government obligations and any interest retained therefrom in the event of the obligor's default in performing any of the terms, conditions, or stipulations of such bond. Unless otherwise provided by law, the bond shall authorize the bond official to apply the proceeds from the sale, assignment, or transfer of such Government obligations, in whole or in part, to satisfy any costs incurred by the United States related to the default, and to apply any excess proceeds to satisfy any other claim of the United States against the obligor. The bond shall not include any obligations on custodians which are inconsistent with, or in addition to, the obligations in this part. The bond will provide that the bond official may retain any interest accruing upon any Government obligations, or direct that such interest be retained by the custodian.
(c) Amount of Government obligations. The obligor shall pledge to the bond official Government obligations valued as required by 31 U.S.C. 9303, as amended.
Amount of Government obligations.
The obligor shall pledge to the bond official Government obligations valued as required by 31 U.S.C. 9303, as amended.
(d) Avoiding frequent substitutions. To avoid the frequent substitution of Government obligations, the bond official may reject Government obligations which mature, or are redeemable, within one year from the date they are pledged to the bond official.
Avoiding frequent substitutions.
To avoid the frequent substitution of Government obligations, the bond official may reject Government obligations which mature, or are redeemable, within one year from the date they are pledged to the bond official.
(e) Acceptable Government obligations. Types and valuations of acceptable collateral security are addressed in 31 CFR part 380. For a current list of acceptable classes of securities and instruments described in 31 CFR part 380 and their valuations, see the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's web site at www.publicdebt.treas.gov.
Acceptable Government obligations.
Types and valuations of acceptable collateral security are addressed in 31 CFR part 380. For a current list of acceptable classes of securities and instruments described in 31 CFR part 380 and their valuations, see the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's web site at
www.publicdebt.treas.gov.
[[64 FR 4763, Jan. 29, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 55430, Sept. 13, 2000]]

§ 225.4   Pledge of book-entry Government obligations.

(a) General. Except as otherwise provided by the Secretary in procedural instructions, an obligor, or a depositary acting as agent or sub-agent for the obligor, or the bond official, shall arrange a pledge pursuant to the prior agreement and approval of the bond official, of book-entry Government obligations. The Government obligations must be transferred to an account for the benefit of the bond official. The custodian holding the Government obligations is not required to establish that the agreement and approval of the bond official has been obtained prior to such a transfer.
General.
Except as otherwise provided by the Secretary in procedural instructions, an obligor, or a depositary acting as agent or sub-agent for the obligor, or the bond official, shall arrange a pledge pursuant to the prior agreement and approval of the bond official, of book-entry Government obligations. The Government obligations must be transferred to an account for the benefit of the bond official. The custodian holding the Government obligations is not required to establish that the agreement and approval of the bond official has been obtained prior to such a transfer.
(b) Receipt. Upon the transfer of Government obligations to an account for the benefit of the bond official, the custodian will promptly issue a receipt or an activity statement, or both, to the bond official and to the obligor or a depositary acting as agent or sub-agent for the obligor.
Receipt.
Upon the transfer of Government obligations to an account for the benefit of the bond official, the custodian will promptly issue a receipt or an activity statement, or both, to the bond official and to the obligor or a depositary acting as agent or sub-agent for the obligor.
(c) Effect of the transfer. Book-entry Government obligations credited to an account for the benefit of the bond official shall have the effect as provided in part 357 of this title, or in other applicable regulations.
Effect of the transfer.
Book-entry Government obligations credited to an account for the benefit of the bond official shall have the effect as provided in part 357 of this title, or in other applicable regulations.

§ 225.5   Pledge of definitive Government obligations.

(a) Type and assignment. Definitive Government obligations may be in bearer or registered form, and shall be owned by the obligor.
Type and assignment.
Definitive Government obligations may be in bearer or registered form, and shall be owned by the obligor.
(1) Bearer Government obligations. The obligor shall pledge bearer Government obligations to the bond official with all unmatured interest coupons attached.
Bearer Government obligations.
The obligor shall pledge bearer Government obligations to the bond official with all unmatured interest coupons attached.
(2) Registered Government obligations; assignment. The obligor shall pledge registered Government obligations in the obligor's name to the bond official by assignment in accordance with subpart F of part 306 of this title and other codified procedures for issuers that apply to assignment of the registered Government obligations, except that, when so authorized under such procedures, all assignments shall be made in blank.
Registered Government obligations; assignment.
The obligor shall pledge registered Government obligations in the obligor's name to the bond official by assignment in accordance with subpart F of part 306 of this title and other codified procedures for issuers that apply to assignment of the registered Government obligations, except that, when so authorized under such procedures, all assignments shall be made in blank.
(b) Delivery to bond official; receipt. All deliveries of definitive Government obligations from the obligor to the bond official under this part shall be made at the risk and expense of the obligor. Upon receipt of definitive Government obligations, the bond official will issue the obligor a receipt.
Delivery to bond official; receipt.
All deliveries of definitive Government obligations from the obligor to the bond official under this part shall be made at the risk and expense of the obligor. Upon receipt of definitive Government obligations, the bond official will issue the obligor a receipt.
(c) Risk of loss; safekeeping. All definitive Government obligations held by the bond official will be held at the risk of the bond official. The bond official will keep safe all definitive Government obligations and may place them with a custodian.
Risk of loss; safekeeping.
All definitive Government obligations held by the bond official will be held at the risk of the bond official. The bond official will keep safe all definitive Government obligations and may place them with a custodian.
(d) Delivery to custodian; receipt. If the bond official is in receipt of definitive Government obligations, and then places those obligations with a custodian, the expense and risk of loss in delivery will rest with the bond official. Upon the placement of definitive Government obligations with a custodian, the custodian will issue the bond official a receipt. All definitive Government obligations held by the custodian will be held at the risk of the custodian.
Delivery to custodian; receipt.
If the bond official is in receipt of definitive Government obligations, and then places those obligations with a custodian, the expense and risk of loss in delivery will rest with the bond official. Upon the placement of definitive Government obligations with a custodian, the custodian will issue the bond official a receipt. All definitive Government obligations held by the custodian will be held at the risk of the custodian.
(e) Conversion to book-entry. (1) Treasury bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, or bills deposited with a Federal Reserve Bank under this part may be converted into book-entry Treasury obligations in accordance with part 306 of this title, and the pertinent provisions of that part shall apply to such Treasury obligations.
Conversion to book-entry.
(1) Treasury bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, or bills deposited with a Federal Reserve Bank under this part may be converted into book-entry Treasury obligations in accordance with part 306 of this title, and the pertinent provisions of that part shall apply to such Treasury obligations.
(2) When converting definitive Government obligations to book-entry form, a Federal Reserve Bank will act pursuant to, and in accordance with, book-entry procedures for issuers that apply to the definitive Government obligations pledged to the bond official's agency, including those set forth in part 306 of this title.

§ 225.6   Payment of interest.

(a) General. Except as otherwise provided in this section and § 225.7(b), interest accruing upon Government obligations pledged to a bond official's agency in accordance with this part will be remitted to the obligor or a depositary acting as agent or sub-agent for the obligor.
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this section and § 225.7(b), interest accruing upon Government obligations pledged to a bond official's agency in accordance with this part will be remitted to the obligor or a depositary acting as agent or sub-agent for the obligor.
(b) Default. If the bond official determines that the obligor has defaulted, the bond official will retain any interest accruing upon Government obligations pledged to the bond official's agency or direct the custodian, in accordance with this part, to retain such interest. Unless otherwise provided by law, such interest will be available to satisfy any costs incurred by the United States related to the default, and any excess proceeds will be available to satisfy any other claim of the United States against the obligor.
Default.
If the bond official determines that the obligor has defaulted, the bond official will retain any interest accruing upon Government obligations pledged to the bond official's agency or direct the custodian, in accordance with this part, to retain such interest. Unless otherwise provided by law, such interest will be available to satisfy any costs incurred by the United States related to the default, and any excess proceeds will be available to satisfy any other claim of the United States against the obligor.

§ 225.7   Custodian duties and responsibilities.

(a) General. A custodian shall authenticate instructions received from a bond official and shall act in accordance with such authenticated instructions. The custodian assumes no liability and is without liability of any kind for acting in accordance with such authenticated instructions, except for the custodian's failure to exercise ordinary care. By providing a bond secured by Government obligations in lieu of a bond with surety or sureties, an obligor agrees not to hold either the custodian or the Secretary liable or responsible for the actions or inactions of a bond official or for carrying out a bond official's authenticated instructions.
General.
A custodian shall authenticate instructions received from a bond official and shall act in accordance with such authenticated instructions. The custodian assumes no liability and is without liability of any kind for acting in accordance with such authenticated instructions, except for the custodian's failure to exercise ordinary care. By providing a bond secured by Government obligations in lieu of a bond with surety or sureties, an obligor agrees not to hold either the custodian or the Secretary liable or responsible for the actions or inactions of a bond official or for carrying out a bond official's authenticated instructions.
(b) Interest. Absent authenticated instructions from the bond official to retain interest, interest received by the custodian on Government obligations pledged to the bond official's agency in accordance with this part will be remitted in the regular course of business to the obligor or to a depositary acting as agent or sub-agent for the obligor.
Interest.
Absent authenticated instructions from the bond official to retain interest, interest received by the custodian on Government obligations pledged to the bond official's agency in accordance with this part will be remitted in the regular course of business to the obligor or to a depositary acting as agent or sub-agent for the obligor.
(c) Principal. Absent authenticated instructions from the bond official to retain the proceeds of matured Government obligations, a custodian will release to the obligor proceeds from matured Government obligations only if the obligor has deposited Government obligations acceptable under 31 U.S.C. 9301, as amended, in substitution for those which have matured.
Principal.
Absent authenticated instructions from the bond official to retain the proceeds of matured Government obligations, a custodian will release to the obligor proceeds from matured Government obligations only if the obligor has deposited Government obligations acceptable under 31 U.S.C. 9301, as amended, in substitution for those which have matured.
(d) Liquidation of Government obligations. A custodian will collect, sell, assign, or transfer Government obligations, including any interest therefrom, only in accordance with a bond official's authenticated instructions.
Liquidation of Government obligations.
A custodian will collect, sell, assign, or transfer Government obligations, including any interest therefrom, only in accordance with a bond official's authenticated instructions.
(e) Application of proceeds of liquidated Government obligations. A custodian will apply the proceeds from the collection, sale, assignment, or transfer of Government obligations only in accordance with a bond official's authenticated instructions.
Application of proceeds of liquidated Government obligations.
A custodian will apply the proceeds from the collection, sale, assignment, or transfer of Government obligations only in accordance with a bond official's authenticated instructions.

§ 225.8   Bond official duties and responsibilities.

The bond official's duties and responsibilities are as follows:
(a) Approving the bond secured by Government obligations after determining its sufficiency;
(b) Verifying ownership of any registered definitive Government obligations given, and ensuring that those Government obligations are properly assigned;
(c) Approving establishment of a book-entry account for the benefit of the bond official;
(d) Providing the custodian, when appropriate, with clear and concise instructions;
(e) Taking all reasonable and appropriate steps to ensure that all procedures or transactions conform with the provisions of this part; and
(f) Notifying the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, upon an obligor's default, and, unless otherwise provided by law, applying any part of the proceeds in excess of the amount required to assure payment of any costs incurred by the United States related to the default to satisfy any claim of the United States against the obligor.

§ 225.9   Return of Government obligations to obligor.

(a) General. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section or as otherwise provided in this part, the bond official will return the Government obligations, and any interest retained therefrom, to the obligor, without written application from the obligor, when the bond official determines that the Government obligations are no longer required under the terms of the bond.
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section or as otherwise provided in this part, the bond official will return the Government obligations, and any interest retained therefrom, to the obligor, without written application from the obligor, when the bond official determines that the Government obligations are no longer required under the terms of the bond.
(b) Miller Act payment bonds. The bond official will not return Government obligations to an obligor who has furnished to the bond official a payment bond if:
Miller Act payment bonds.
The bond official will not return Government obligations to an obligor who has furnished to the bond official a payment bond if:
(1) A person, who supplied the obligor with labor or materials and whom the obligor has not paid, files with the United States Government the application and affidavit provided for in the Miller Act (Act), as amended (40 U.S.C. 270a-270d), and the time provided in the Act for the person to commence suit against the obligor on the payment bond has not expired; or
(2) A person commences a suit against the obligor within the time provided for in the Act, in which case the bond official will hold the Government obligations subject to the order of the court having jurisdiction of the suit; or
(3) The bond official has actual knowledge of a claim against the obligor on the basis of the payment bond, in which case the bond official may return the Government obligations to the obligor when the bond official deems it appropriate.
(c) Claim of the United States unaffected. Nothing in this section shall affect or impair the priority of any claim of the United States against Government obligations, or any right or remedy granted by the Miller Act or by this part to the United States in the event of an obligor's default on any term, condition, or stipulation of a bond.
Claim of the United States unaffected.
Nothing in this section shall affect or impair the priority of any claim of the United States against Government obligations, or any right or remedy granted by the Miller Act or by this part to the United States in the event of an obligor's default on any term, condition, or stipulation of a bond.
(d) Return of definitive Government obligations; risk of loss. Definitive Government obligations to be returned to the obligor will be forwarded at the obligor's risk and expense, either by the bond official, or by a custodian upon receipt of a bond official's authenticated instructions.
Return of definitive Government obligations; risk of loss.
Definitive Government obligations to be returned to the obligor will be forwarded at the obligor's risk and expense, either by the bond official, or by a custodian upon receipt of a bond official's authenticated instructions.

§ 225.10   Other agency practices and authorities.

(a) Agency practices. Nothing in this part shall be construed as modifying the existing practices or duties of agencies in handling bonds, except to the extent made necessary under the terms of this part by reason of the acceptance of bonds secured by Government obligations.
Agency practices.
Nothing in this part shall be construed as modifying the existing practices or duties of agencies in handling bonds, except to the extent made necessary under the terms of this part by reason of the acceptance of bonds secured by Government obligations.
(b) Agency authorities. Nothing contained in this part shall affect the authority of agencies to receive Government obligations for security in cases authorized by other provisions of law.
Agency authorities.
Nothing contained in this part shall affect the authority of agencies to receive Government obligations for security in cases authorized by other provisions of law.

§ 225.11   Courts.

Nothing contained in this part shall affect the authority of a court over a Government obligation given as security in a civil action.

PART 226—RECOGNITION OF INSURANCE COVERING TREASURY TAX AND LOAN DEPOSITARIES

[Authority:Secs. 2 and 3, Pub. L. 95-147. 91 Stat. 1227 (31 U.S.C. 1038).]
Authority:
Secs. 2 and 3, Pub. L. 95-147. 91 Stat. 1227 (31 U.S.C. 1038).
[Source:43 FR 18972, May 2, 1978, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
43 FR 18972, May 2, 1978, unless otherwise noted.

§ 226.1   Scope.

The regulations in this part apply to insurance covering public money of the United States held by banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, homestead associations, or credit unions designated as Treasury tax and loan depositaries under 31 CFR part 203. Approval of the adequacy of the insurance coverage provided to Treasury tax and loan funds shall be governed by the regulations contained herein, which will be supplemented by guidelines issued by the Treasury and updated from time to time to meet changing conditions in the industry.

§ 226.2   General.

(a) Deposit or account insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, and the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, is hereby recognized. Deposits or accounts which are insured by a State or agency thereof, or by a corporation chartered by a State for the sole purpose of insuring deposits or accounts of financial institutions eligible to be Treasury tax and loan depositaries (hereinafter referred to as Insurance Arrangement), shall be approved as provided herein. Such approval constitutes recognition for the purpose of reducing the amount of collateral required of a tax and loan depositary by the amount of recognized insurance coverage pursuant to 31 CFR 203.15.
(b) Generally, these regulations and their associated guidelines require that an organization providing insurance maintain a corpus of sufficient value and liquidity, and/or that it have sufficient State borrowing authority, in relation to its liabilities and total insured savings (or deposits) to provide adequate security to the Government's deposits and that adequate monitoring of the financial condition of the insured institutions is conducted.

§ 226.3   Application—termination.

(a) Every Insurance Organization applying for recognition as a qualified insurer of financial institutions designated as Treasury tax and loan depositaries shall address a written request to the Assistant Commissioner, Comptroller, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20226, who will notify the applicant of the data which is necessary to make application. If the Secretary of the Treasury is satisfied that:
(1) One or more institutions insured by the applicant otherwise meet the Secretary's requirements for designation as a Treasury tax and loan depositary or Federal tax depositary,
(2) The insurance provided by the applicant covers public money of the United States, and
(3) The insurance coverage provided affords adequate security to the Government's deposits, the Secretary shall recognize the applicant as a qualified insurer of financial institutions designated as Treasury tax and loan depositaries.
(b) If and when the Secretary of the Treasury determines that a qualified insurance organization's financial condition is such that it no longer provides adequate security or that it is not complying with the regulations of this part, the Secretary will notify the Insurance Organization of the facts or conduct which cause him to make such determination, and in those cases where the safety of the Government's funds allows, provide the Insurance Organization with an opportunity to correct the deficiency. When any deficiency has not been corrected to his satisfaction or, where the safety of Government funds makes immediate revocation imperative, the Secretary will revoke the recognition previously granted.
Note:
For a delegation of authority to perform the functions described in §§ 226.3 and 226.4, see 44 FR 19406 of the Federal Register of April 3, 1979.
Federal Register
of April 3, 1979.
[[43 FR 18972, May 2, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 19406, Apr. 3, 1979; 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984]]

§ 226.4   Adequacy of security—how computed.

(a) In qualifying Insurance Organizations, the Treasury will use a ratio (equity (net worth) of the insurance organization divided by insured accounts or deposits) to determine if the security is adequate. The ratio will be computed as determined by the Treasury, and is required to equal 0.0045 or greater for an Insurance Organization to be recognized (i.e., net worth is required to equal 0.45 of 1 percent of insured accounts or deposits).
i.e.
, net worth is required to equal 0.45 of 1 percent of insured accounts or deposits).
(b) If, in the judgment of the Secretary of the Treasury, any of the Insurance Organization's assets which cannot be liquidated promptly or are subject to restriction, encumbrance, or discredit, all or part of the value of such assets may be deducted from equity in making the computation. The Secretary of the Treasury may value the assets and liabilities in his discretion.
(c) An Insurance Organization's unqualified borrowing authority from its sponsoring State will be added to its equity in making the computation because such authority is equivalent to additional capitalization. An Insurance Organization's commercial borrowing authority and its reinsurance will be disregarded in making the computation, because these are not adequate substitutes for undercapitalization.
Note:
For a delegation of authority to perform the functions described in §§ 226.3 and 226.4, see 44 FR 19406 of the Federal Register of April 3, 1979.
Federal Register
of April 3, 1979.
[[43 FR 18972, May 2, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 19406, Apr. 3, 1979]]

§ 226.5   Examinations.

(a) Examinations by State regulatory authorities or audits by CPA firms of Insurance Organizations shall be performed in accordance with, and at intervals prescribed by, State regulatory procedures. Copies of the reports shall be submitted to the Treasury.
(b) Examinations by State regulatory authorities or audits by CPA firms of insured financial institutions shall be performed in accordance with, and at intervals prescribed by, State regulatory procedures. In addition, an adequate monitoring system shall be employed to detect those institutions with financial problems.

§ 226.6   Financial reports.

Financial reports of Insurance Organizations shall be submitted to the Treasury at the same intervals they are submitted to State regulatory authorities. However, they need not be submitted more frequently than quarterly but, as a minimum, shall be submitted annually. The Treasury may prescribe the format of such reports.

§ 226.7   Effective date.

The provisions of this part become effective November 2, 1978.
[[43 FR 47506, Oct. 16, 1978]]

PART 235—ISSUANCE OF SETTLEMENT CHECKS FOR FORGED CHECKS DRAWN ON DESIGNATED DEPOSITARIES

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3343.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3343.
[Source:40 FR 6785, Feb. 14, 1975, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
40 FR 6785, Feb. 14, 1975, unless otherwise noted.

§ 235.1   Scope of regulations.

This part governs the issuance of settlement checks for checks drawn on designated depositaries of the United States by accountable officers of the United States, that have been negotiated and paid on a forged or unauthorized indorsement.
[[40 FR 6785, Feb. 14, 1975, as amended at 54 FR 35642, Aug. 29, 1989]]

§ 235.2   Definition.

Accountable Officers of the United States, as used in these regulations, means disbursing officers authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury to maintain official accounts of the United States in depositary banks located in the United States, its territories, and foreign countries, and to draw checks thereon in dollars or in foreign currencies.
Accountable Officers of the United States,
as used in these regulations, means disbursing officers authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury to maintain official accounts of the United States in depositary banks located in the United States, its territories, and foreign countries, and to draw checks thereon in dollars or in foreign currencies.

§ 235.3   Settlement of claims.

Upon receipt of a claim by a payee or special indorsee on a check determined to have been paid on a forged indorsement under conditions satisfying the provisions set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3343, accountable officers of the United States, with respect to a check drawn on designated depositaries of the United States, in dollars or in foreign currency, shall cause to be issued a settlement check in the appropriate currency to the payee or special indorsee.
[[40 FR 6785, Feb. 14, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 47001, 47002, Nov. 30, 1984; 54 FR 35642, Aug. 29, 1989]]

§ 235.4   Check Forgery Insurance Fund.

The Check Forgery Insurance Fund, established pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3343, shall be available for use by the Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, and accountable officers of the United States for the purpose of providing funding for settlements made to a payee or special indorsee pursuant to these regulations.
[[40 FR 6785, Feb. 14, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 47001, 47002, Nov. 30, 1984]]

§ 235.5   Reclamation amounts.

Amounts received by way of reclamation on forged checks shall be deposited to the credit of the Check Forgery Insurance Fund or to the appropriate foreign currency fund or other account charged for the settlement payment.

§ 235.6   Implementing instructions.

Procedural instructions implementing these regulations will be issued by the Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service in volume I, part 4 of the Treasury Financial Manual.
[[54 FR 35642, Aug. 29, 1989]]

PART 240—INDORSEMENT AND PAYMENT OF CHECKS DRAWN ON THE UNITED STATES TREASURY

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3327, 3328, 3331, 3334, 3343, 3711, 3712, 3716, 3717; 332 U.S. 234 (1947); 318 U.S. 363 (1943).]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3327, 3328, 3331, 3334, 3343, 3711, 3712, 3716, 3717; 332 U.S. 234 (1947); 318 U.S. 363 (1943).
[Source:69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

General Provisions


§ 240.1   Scope of regulations.

(a) The regulations in this part prescribe the requirements for indorsement and the conditions for payment of checks drawn on the United States Treasury. These regulations also establish procedures for collection of amounts due the United States Treasury based on claims arising from the breach of presentment guarantees by presenting banks and other indorsers of Treasury checks when checks bearing material defects or alterations or forged disbursing officer (drawer) signatures are presented for payment and are paid.
(b) Standards contained in this regulation supersede existing Federal common law to the extent that they are inconsistent with Federal common law rules relating to counterfeit checks. Under the provisions of this regulation, the risk of loss on certain counterfeit checks is placed on presenting banks and other indorsers unless Treasury fails to timely reclaim on a check payment in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3712(a) and § 240.8 of this regulation. Treasury will reclaim on counterfeit checks that are deemed paid under § 240.6(d) of this regulation when a presenting bank or other indorser fails to make all reasonable efforts to ensure that a check is an authentic Treasury check.
(c) Nothing in this regulation supercedes the rights or obligations of Treasury or any other person that are set forth in Regulation CC, 12 CFR part 229, with respect to substitute checks, as defined therein.
(d) A financial institution's indorsement or presentment of a U.S. Treasury check shall constitute its agreement to this part. The financial institution hereby authorizes its servicing Federal Reserve Bank to debit the financial institution's Federal Reserve Master Account for the amount of the reclamation and any accrued interest, penalties and/or administrative costs in accordance with the provisions of § 240.9.
[[69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 57909, Sept. 19, 2011]]

§ 240.2   Definitions.

Administrative offset or offset, for purposes of this part, has the same meaning as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1) and 31 CFR part 285.
Administrative offset
or
offset,
for purposes of this part, has the same meaning as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1) and 31 CFR part 285.
Agency means any agency, department, instrumentality, office, commission, board, service, or other establishment of the United States authorized to issue Treasury checks or for which checks drawn on the United States Treasury are issued.
Agency
means any agency, department, instrumentality, office, commission, board, service, or other establishment of the United States authorized to issue Treasury checks or for which checks drawn on the United States Treasury are issued.
Cancellation or canceled means that a Treasury check is no longer a valid instrument, due to the one-year limitation on negotiability and payment described in § 240.5(a), or the placement of a stop payment on the check by Treasury or the certifying agency.
Cancellation
or
canceled
means that a Treasury check is no longer a valid instrument, due to the one-year limitation on negotiability and payment described in § 240.5(a), or the placement of a stop payment on the check by Treasury or the certifying agency.
Certifying agency means an agency authorizing the issuance of a payment by a disbursing official in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3325.
Certifying agency
means an agency authorizing the issuance of a payment by a disbursing official in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3325.
Check or checks means an original check or checks; an electronic check or checks; or a substitute check or checks.
Check
or
checks
means an original check or checks; an electronic check or checks; or a substitute check or checks.
Check payment means the amount paid to a presenting bank by a Federal Reserve Bank.
Check payment
means the amount paid to a presenting bank by a Federal Reserve Bank.
Counterfeit check means a document that purports to be an authentic check drawn on the United States Treasury, but in fact is not an authentic check.
Counterfeit check
means a document that purports to be an authentic check drawn on the United States Treasury, but in fact is not an authentic check.
Days means calendar days. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday; the first day is not included. For example, if a reclamation was issued on July 1, the 90-day protest period under § 240.9(b) would begin on July 2. If the 90th day fell on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the protest would be accepted if received on the next business day.
Days
means calendar days. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday; the first day is not included. For example, if a reclamation was issued on July 1, the 90-day protest period under § 240.9(b) would begin on July 2. If the 90th day fell on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the protest would be accepted if received on the next business day.
Declination means the process by which Treasury refuses to make final payment on a check, i.e., declines payment, by instructing a Federal Reserve Bank to reverse its provisional credit to a presenting bank.
Declination
means the process by which Treasury refuses to make final payment on a check,
i.e.,
declines payment, by instructing a Federal Reserve Bank to reverse its provisional credit to a presenting bank.
Declination date means the date on which Treasury issues the declination.
Declination date
means the date on which Treasury issues the declination.
Disbursing official means an official, including an official of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, any Government corporation (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101), or any official of the United States designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, authorized to disburse public money pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another law.
Disbursing official
means an official, including an official of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, any Government corporation (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101), or any official of the United States designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, authorized to disburse public money pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another law.
Drawer's signature means the signature of a disbursing official placed on the front of a Treasury check as the drawer of the check.
Drawer's signature
means the signature of a disbursing official placed on the front of a Treasury check as the drawer of the check.
Electronic check means an electronic image of a check drawn on the United States Treasury, together with information describing that check, that meets the technical requirements for sending electronic items to a Federal Reserve Bank as set forth in the Federal Reserve Banks' operating circulars.
Electronic check
means an electronic image of a check drawn on the United States Treasury, together with information describing that check, that meets the technical requirements for sending electronic items to a Federal Reserve Bank as set forth in the Federal Reserve Banks' operating circulars.
Federal Reserve Bank means a Federal Reserve Bank or a branch of a Federal Reserve Bank.
Federal Reserve Bank
means a Federal Reserve Bank or a branch of a Federal Reserve Bank.
Federal Reserve Processing Center means a Federal Reserve Bank center that images Treasury checks for archiving check information and transmitting such information to Treasury.
Federal Reserve Processing Center
means a Federal Reserve Bank center that images Treasury checks for archiving check information and transmitting such information to Treasury.
Financial institution means:
Financial institution
means:
(1) Any insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(3) Any savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(4) Any insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752) or any credit union which is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union under section 201 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1781);
(5) Any savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) which is an insured depositary institution (as defined in such Act) (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depositary institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.); and
et seq.
) or is eligible to apply to become an insured depositary institution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
); and
(6) Any financial institution outside of the United States if it has been designated by the Secretary of the Treasury as a depositary of public money and has been permitted to charge checks to the General Account of the United States Treasury.
First examination means Treasury's initial review of a check that has been presented for payment. The initial review procedures, which establish the authenticity and integrity of a check presented to Treasury for payment, may include reconciliation; retrieval and inspection of the check or the best available image thereof; and other procedures Treasury deems appropriate to specific circumstances.
First examination
means Treasury's initial review of a check that has been presented for payment. The initial review procedures, which establish the authenticity and integrity of a check presented to Treasury for payment, may include reconciliation; retrieval and inspection of the check or the best available image thereof; and other procedures Treasury deems appropriate to specific circumstances.
Forged or unauthorized drawer's signature means a drawer's signature that has been placed on the front of a Treasury check by a person other than:
Forged or unauthorized drawer's signature
means a drawer's signature that has been placed on the front of a Treasury check by a person other than:
(1) A disbursing official; or
(2) A person authorized to sign on behalf of a disbursing official.
Forged or unauthorized indorsement means:
Forged or unauthorized indorsement
means:
(1) An indorsement of the payee's name by another person who is not authorized to sign for the payee; or
(2) An indorsement of the payee's name made by another person who has been authorized by the payee, but who has not indorsed the check in accordance with §§ 240.4 and 240.13 through 240.17; or
(3) An indorsement added by a financial institution where the financial institution had no authority to supply the indorsement; or
(4) A check bearing an altered payee name that is indorsed using the payee name as altered.
Guarantor means a financial institution that presents a check for payment and any prior indorser(s) of a check.
Guarantor
means a financial institution that presents a check for payment and any prior indorser(s) of a check.
Master Account means the record of financial rights and obligations of an account holder and the Federal Reserve Bank with respect to each other, where opening, intraday, and closing balances are determined.
Master Account
means the record of financial rights and obligations of an account holder and the Federal Reserve Bank with respect to each other, where opening, intraday, and closing balances are determined.
Material defect or alteration means:
Material defect or alteration
means:
(1) The counterfeiting of a check; or
(2) Any physical change on a check, including, but not limited to, a change in the amount, date, payee name, or other identifying information printed on the front or back of the check (but not including a forged or unauthorized drawer's signature); or
(3) Any forged or unauthorized indorsement appearing on the back of the check.
Minor means the term minor as defined under applicable State law.
Minor
means the term minor as defined under applicable State law.
Monthly statement means a statement prepared by Treasury that includes the following information regarding each outstanding reclamation:
Monthly statement
means a statement prepared by Treasury that includes the following information regarding each outstanding reclamation:
(1) The reclamation date;
(2) The reclamation number;
(3) Check identifying information; and
(4) The balance due, including interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Original check means the first paper check drawn on the United States Treasury with respect to a particular payment transaction.
Original check
means the first paper check drawn on the United States Treasury with respect to a particular payment transaction.
Payee means the person that the certifying agency designated to receive payment pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3528.
Payee
means the person that the certifying agency designated to receive payment pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3528.
Person means an individual, institution, including a financial institution, or any other type of entity; the singular includes the plural.
Person
means an individual, institution, including a financial institution, or any other type of entity; the singular includes the plural.
Presenting bank means:
Presenting bank
means:
(1) A financial institution which, either directly or through a correspondent banking relationship, presents checks to and receives provisional credit from a Federal Reserve Bank; or
(2) A depositary which is authorized to charge checks directly to Treasury's General Account and present them to Treasury for payment through a designated Federal Reserve Bank.
Provisional credit means the initial credit provided to a presenting bank by a Federal Reserve Bank. Treasury may reverse a provisional credit until Treasury deems completion of first examination or final payment made pursuant to § 240.6(d).
Provisional credit
means the initial credit provided to a presenting bank by a Federal Reserve Bank. Treasury may reverse a provisional credit until Treasury deems completion of first examination or final payment made pursuant to § 240.6(d).
Reasonable efforts means, at a minimum:
Reasonable efforts
means, at a minimum:
(1) Confirming the validity of a check by obtaining the check return information prior to making the funds from the check available for withdrawal (except when the check return information has not been provided within the applicable timeframe prescribed by Regulation CC, and making funds available for withdrawal is necessary to comply with Regulation CC; however, this exception does not apply if the presenting bank is otherwise subject to liability due to the presentment guarantees found in § 240.4); and
(2) Confirming the authenticity of the check such as by verifying the existence of the Treasury watermark on an original check.
(3) Acceptance of a check by electronic image or other non-physical means does not impact reasonable efforts requirements. Based upon the facts at hand, including whether a check is an original check, a substitute check, or an electronic check, reasonable efforts may require the verification of other security features.
Reclamation means a demand for the amount of a check for which Treasury has requested an immediate refund.
Reclamation
means a demand for the amount of a check for which Treasury has requested an immediate refund.
Reclamation date means the date on which Treasury issues a reclamation. Normally, Treasury sends demands to presenting banks or other indorsers within two business days of the reclamation date.
Reclamation date
means the date on which Treasury issues a reclamation. Normally, Treasury sends demands to presenting banks or other indorsers within two business days of the reclamation date.
Reclamation debt means the amount owed as a result of Treasury's demand for refund of a check payment, and includes interest, penalties and administrative costs assessed in accordance with § 240.8.
Reclamation debt
means the amount owed as a result of Treasury's demand for refund of a check payment, and includes interest, penalties and administrative costs assessed in accordance with § 240.8.
Reclamation debtor means a presenting bank or other indorser of a check from whom Treasury has demanded a refund in accordance with §§ 240.8 and 240.9. The reclamation debtor does not include a presenting bank or other indorser who may be liable for a reclamation debt, but from which Treasury has not demanded a refund.
Reclamation debtor
means a presenting bank or other indorser of a check from whom Treasury has demanded a refund in accordance with §§ 240.8 and 240.9. The reclamation debtor does not include a presenting bank or other indorser who may be liable for a reclamation debt, but from which Treasury has not demanded a refund.
Recurring benefit payment includes but is not limited to a payment of money for any Federal Government entitlement program or annuity.
Recurring benefit payment
includes but is not limited to a payment of money for any Federal Government entitlement program or annuity.
Stop payment means that Treasury or a certifying agency has indicated that a Treasury check should not be paid and instead should be canceled. A stop payment could be placed on a Treasury check for reasons including that the check was reported lost or stolen; the check was determined to have been issued improperly; the payee was deceased prior to the issuance of the check; or any other allowable reason.
Stop payment
means that Treasury or a certifying agency has indicated that a Treasury check should not be paid and instead should be canceled. A stop payment could be placed on a Treasury check for reasons including that the check was reported lost or stolen; the check was determined to have been issued improperly; the payee was deceased prior to the issuance of the check; or any other allowable reason.
Substitute check means a paper reproduction of a check drawn on the United States Treasury that meets the definitional requirements set forth at 12 CFR 229.2(aaa).
Substitute check
means a paper reproduction of a check drawn on the United States Treasury that meets the definitional requirements set forth at 12 CFR 229.2(aaa).
Treasury means the United States Department of the Treasury, or when authorized, an agent designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegee.
Treasury
means the United States Department of the Treasury, or when authorized, an agent designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegee.
Treasury Check Offset means the collection of an amount owed by a presenting bank in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3712(e).
Treasury Check Offset
means the collection of an amount owed by a presenting bank in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3712(e).
Truncate means to remove a paper check from the forward collection or return process and send to a recipient, in lieu of such paper check, a substitute check or an electronic check.
Truncate
means to remove a paper check from the forward collection or return process and send to a recipient, in lieu of such paper check, a substitute check or an electronic check.
U.S. securities means securities of the United States and securities of Federal agencies and Government corporations for which Treasury acts as the transfer agent.
U.S. securities
means securities of the United States and securities of Federal agencies and Government corporations for which Treasury acts as the transfer agent.
Validity or valid check means an authentic Treasury check that is a payable instrument and has not been previously negotiated or canceled.
Validity
or
valid check
means an authentic Treasury check that is a payable instrument and has not been previously negotiated or canceled.
Writing includes electronic communications when specifically authorized by Treasury in implementing instructions.
Writing
includes electronic communications when specifically authorized by Treasury in implementing instructions.
[[88 FR 74888, Nov. 1, 2023]]

§ 240.3   Electronic checks and substitute checks.

(a) Legal equivalence of electronic checks. An electronic check for which a presenting bank has provided the guarantees described in § 240.4 is the legal equivalent of an original or substitute check for purposes of this part if the electronic check accurately represents all of the information on the front and back of the check that the presenting bank truncated. If a financial institution presents an electronic check for payment and the check is subject to return, Treasury may effect the return using an electronic check, but this part does not create any right for the presenting bank to return the check to the payee or any other person using an electronic check.
Legal equivalence of electronic checks.
An electronic check for which a presenting bank has provided the guarantees described in § 240.4 is the legal equivalent of an original or substitute check for purposes of this part if the electronic check accurately represents all of the information on the front and back of the check that the presenting bank truncated. If a financial institution presents an electronic check for payment and the check is subject to return, Treasury may effect the return using an electronic check, but this part does not create any right for the presenting bank to return the check to the payee or any other person using an electronic check.
(b) Safekeeping of original checks. Any financial institution that creates a substitute check or electronic check shall prevent unauthorized access to the original or substitute check that was truncated by storing the check, until it is destroyed, in a manner consistent with federal banking agency guidelines for safeguarding customer information.
Safekeeping of original checks.
Any financial institution that creates a substitute check or electronic check shall prevent unauthorized access to the original or substitute check that was truncated by storing the check, until it is destroyed, in a manner consistent with federal banking agency guidelines for safeguarding customer information.

§ 240.4   Presentment guarantees.

The guarantors of a check presented to the Treasury for payment are deemed to guarantee to the Treasury all of the following:
(a) Indorsements. That all prior indorsements are genuine, whether or not an express guarantee is placed on the check. When the first indorsement has been made by one other than the payee personally, the presenting bank and the indorsers are deemed to guarantee to the Treasury, in addition to other guarantees, that the person who so indorsed had unqualified capacity and authority to indorse the check on behalf of the payee.
Indorsements.
That all prior indorsements are genuine, whether or not an express guarantee is placed on the check. When the first indorsement has been made by one other than the payee personally, the presenting bank and the indorsers are deemed to guarantee to the Treasury, in addition to other guarantees, that the person who so indorsed had unqualified capacity and authority to indorse the check on behalf of the payee.
(b) Alterations. That the check has not been materially altered.
Alterations.
That the check has not been materially altered.
(c) Drawer's signature. That the guarantors have no knowledge that the signature of the drawer is forged or unauthorized.
Drawer's signature.
That the guarantors have no knowledge that the signature of the drawer is forged or unauthorized.
(d) Authenticity and validity. That the guarantors have made all reasonable efforts to ensure that a check is both an authentic Treasury check (i.e., it is not a counterfeit check) and a valid Treasury check (i.e., it has not been previously negotiated or canceled).
Authenticity and validity.
That the guarantors have made all reasonable efforts to ensure that a check is both an authentic Treasury check (
i.e.,
it is not a counterfeit check) and a valid Treasury check (
i.e.,
it has not been previously negotiated or canceled).
(e) Electronic check. If the check is an electronic check, that—
Electronic check.
If the check is an electronic check, that—
(1) The check accurately represents all of the information on the front and back of the original or substitute check that was truncated and meets the technical requirements for sending electronic items to a Federal Reserve Bank as set forth in the Federal Reserve Banks' operating circulars;
(2) Treasury will not receive presentment of, or otherwise be charged for, the electronic check, the original check, or a substitute check (or a paper or electronic reproduction of any of the foregoing) such that Treasury will be asked to make payment based on a check it already has paid; and
(3) Treasury's receipt of the electronic check instead of the original or substitute check will not result in the loss of Treasury's ability to determine whether the check contains a material defect or alteration.
(f) Substitute check. If the check is a substitute check, that the guarantors make the warranties set forth at 12 CFR 229.52(a)(1) and (2) and the indemnity set forth at 12 CFR 229.53.
Substitute check.
If the check is a substitute check, that the guarantors make the warranties set forth at 12 CFR 229.52(a)(1) and (2) and the indemnity set forth at 12 CFR 229.53.
[[69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, as amended at 88 FR 74889, Nov. 1, 2023]]

§ 240.5   Limitations on payment; cancellation and distribution of proceeds of checks.

(a) Limitations on payment. (1) Treasury shall not be required to pay any check that is not negotiated to a financial institution within 12 months after the date on which the check was issued.
Limitations on payment.
(1) Treasury shall not be required to pay any check that is not negotiated to a financial institution within 12 months after the date on which the check was issued.
(2) All checks shall bear a legend, stating “Void After One Year.” The legend is notice to payees and indorsers of a general limitation on the payment of checks. The legend, or the inadvertent lack thereof, does not limit, or otherwise affect, the rights of Treasury under the law.
(b) Cancellation and distribution of proceeds of checks. (1) Any check that has not been paid and remains outstanding for more than 12 months after the issue date will be canceled by Treasury.
Cancellation and distribution of proceeds of checks.
(1) Any check that has not been paid and remains outstanding for more than 12 months after the issue date will be canceled by Treasury.
(2) The proceeds from checks canceled pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be returned to the payment certifying or authorizing agency for ultimate credit to the appropriation or fund account initially charged for the payment.
(3) On a monthly basis, Treasury will provide to each agency that authorizes the issuance of checks a list of those checks issued for such agency which were canceled during the preceding month pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

§ 240.6   Provisional credit; first examination; declination; final payment.

(a) Any credit issued by a Federal Reserve Bank to a financial institution shall be a provisional credit until Treasury completes first examination of the check, or as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) Treasury shall have the right as a drawee to complete first examination of checks presented for payment, to reconcile checks, and, when appropriate, to make a declination on any check.
(c) Treasury will decline payment on a check when first examination by Treasury establishes that:
(1) The check has a material defect or alteration;
(2) The check bears a forged or unauthorized drawer's signature;
(3) Treasury has already received presentment of a substitute check, electronic check, or original check relating to the check being presented, such that Treasury is being requested to make payment on a check it has already paid; or Treasury is being requested to make payment on a check that is not valid due to a stop payment or other cancellation.
(4) In the case of an electronic check, Treasury cannot determine whether the check contains a material defect or alteration without examining the original check or a better quality image of the check and Treasury is on notice of a question of law or fact about whether the check is properly payable; or
(5) In the case of a substitute check, Treasury has a warranty or indemnity claim arising under 12 CFR 229.52 or 229.53.
(d) Treasury shall have a reasonable amount of time to complete first examination. However, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, if Treasury has not declined payment on a check within 60 days after the check is presented to a Federal Reserve Processing Center for payment, Treasury will be deemed to have made final payment on the check.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3328(a)(2), if, upon presentment for payment, Treasury is on notice of a question of law or fact about whether a check is properly payable, Treasury may defer final payment until the question is settled.
(f) If a Federal Reserve Bank debits a financial institution's reserve account as a result of an erroneous declination, Treasury will promptly refund the amount of the payment.
[[69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, as amended at 88 FR 74889, Nov. 1, 2023]]

§ 240.7   Declination protest.

(a) Who may protest. Only a presenting bank may protest the declination of a check that it has presented to a Federal Reserve Bank for payment.
Who may protest.
Only a presenting bank may protest the declination of a check that it has presented to a Federal Reserve Bank for payment.
(b) Basis for protest. Where Treasury, in accordance with § 240.6, has made a declination of a check presented for payment and a Federal Reserve Bank has reversed its provisional credit to the presenting bank, the presenting bank may file a protest challenging the factual basis for such declination. Protests may be filed challenging the following determinations:
Basis for protest.
Where Treasury, in accordance with § 240.6, has made a declination of a check presented for payment and a Federal Reserve Bank has reversed its provisional credit to the presenting bank, the presenting bank may file a protest challenging the factual basis for such declination. Protests may be filed challenging the following determinations:
(1) Counterfeit checks. The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check is not a counterfeit.
Counterfeit checks.
The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check is not a counterfeit.
(2) Altered checks. The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check is not altered.
Altered checks.
The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check is not altered.
(3) Checks bearing forged or unauthorized drawer's signatures. The presenting bank may offer evidence that the drawer's signature was authentic or was authorized.
Checks bearing forged or unauthorized drawer's signatures.
The presenting bank may offer evidence that the drawer's signature was authentic or was authorized.
(4) Checks bearing a forged or unauthorized indorsement. The presenting bank may offer evidence that an indorsement on the back of the check was not forged or was otherwise authorized in accordance with the requirements of §§ 240.13 through 240.17.
Checks bearing a forged or unauthorized indorsement.
The presenting bank may offer evidence that an indorsement on the back of the check was not forged or was otherwise authorized in accordance with the requirements of §§ 240.13 through 240.17.
(5) Prior presentment. The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check or a paper or electronic representation thereof has not already been presented to, and paid by, Treasury.
Prior presentment.
The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check or a paper or electronic representation thereof has not already been presented to, and paid by, Treasury.
(6) Adequacy of substitute check or electronic check. The presenting bank may offer an original check or a copy of the check that is sufficient to support a determination that the check does not contain a material defect or alteration.
Adequacy of substitute check or electronic check.
The presenting bank may offer an original check or a copy of the check that is sufficient to support a determination that the check does not contain a material defect or alteration.
(c) Procedures for filing a protest. A declination protest must be in writing, and must be sent to: Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Branch Manager, Financial Processing Division, Check Reconciliation Branch, Room 700-A, 3700 East-West Highway, Hyattsville, MD 20782, or to such other address as Treasury may publish in the Treasury Financial Manual, which can be found at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov. Treasury will not consider any protest unless it is received within 90 days from the declination date.
Procedures for filing a protest.
A declination protest must be in writing, and must be sent to: Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Branch Manager, Financial Processing Division, Check Reconciliation Branch, Room 700-A, 3700 East-West Highway, Hyattsville, MD 20782, or to such other address as Treasury may publish in the Treasury Financial Manual, which can be found at
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
Treasury will not consider any protest unless it is received within 90 days from the declination date.
(d) Review of a declination protest. The responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will make every effort to decide any protest properly submitted under this section within 60 days, and will notify the presenting bank of Treasury's decision. In those cases where it is not possible to render a decision within 60 days, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will notify the presenting bank of the delay. Neither the responsible Fiscal Service Director, nor an authorized designee, will have any involvement in the decision to deny payment of a check under § 240.6 of this part.
Review of a declination protest.
The responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will make every effort to decide any protest properly submitted under this section within 60 days, and will notify the presenting bank of Treasury's decision. In those cases where it is not possible to render a decision within 60 days, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will notify the presenting bank of the delay. Neither the responsible Fiscal Service Director, nor an authorized designee, will have any involvement in the decision to deny payment of a check under § 240.6 of this part.
(1) If, based on the evidence provided, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, finds that the presenting bank has met, by a preponderance of the evidence, the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section, Treasury will reverse its decision to decline payment on the check by directing a Federal Reserve Bank to provide credit in the amount of the check to the presenting bank.
(2) If, based on the evidence provided, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, finds that the presenting bank has failed to meet, by a preponderance of the evidence, the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section, the declination will not be reversed.
[[69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 57909, Sept. 19, 2011]]

§ 240.8   Reclamation of amounts of paid checks.

(a) If, after making final payment in accordance with § 240.6, Treasury determines that any guarantor has breached a presentment guarantee listed in § 240.4, the guarantor shall be liable to Treasury for the full amount of the check payment. Treasury may reclaim the amount of the check payment from any such guarantor prior to:
(1) The end of the 1-year period beginning on the date that a check is processed for payment by a Federal Reserve Processing Center; or
(2) The expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the close of the period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if a timely claim under 31 U.S.C. 3702 is presented to the certifying agency.
(b) Treasury will not reclaim on a check that bears a forged or unauthorized drawer's signature unless it has evidence that the reclamation debtor had knowledge of the forged or unauthorized drawer's signature.
(c) Treasury will not reclaim on a counterfeit check unless the reclamation debtor has failed to make all reasonable efforts to ensure that a check is an authentic check and not a counterfeit check. Guidance on the key security features found on U.S. Treasury checks is available on the Fiscal Service website at: http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/checkclaims/check_security_new.pdf. Institutions may contact the Fiscal Service Questioned Documents Branch at (202) 874-7640 for additional information about these security features or to request training.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/checkclaims/check_security_new.pdf.
Institutions may contact the Fiscal Service Questioned Documents Branch at (202) 874-7640 for additional information about these security features or to request training.
(d) Reclamation debts are due to be paid upon receipt of the reclamation by the reclamation debtor. Interest, penalties, and administrative costs associated with unpaid balances will accrue as follows:
(1) Interest. Treasury will assess interest on the unpaid principal of the reclamation debt beginning on the 61st day following the reclamation date, and will calculate interest based on the rate published annually by Treasury in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. Interest will continue to accrue until the full amount of the reclamation is paid or Treasury determines that payment is not required.
Interest.
Treasury will assess interest on the unpaid principal of the reclamation debt beginning on the 61st day following the reclamation date, and will calculate interest based on the rate published annually by Treasury in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. Interest will continue to accrue until the full amount of the reclamation is paid or Treasury determines that payment is not required.
(2) Penalties. Treasury will assess a penalty beginning on the 91st day following the reclamation date. The penalty will be assessed in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717 on the unpaid principal of the reclamation debt, and will continue to accrue until the full amount of the reclamation debt is paid or Treasury determines that payment is not required.
Penalties.
Treasury will assess a penalty beginning on the 91st day following the reclamation date. The penalty will be assessed in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717 on the unpaid principal of the reclamation debt, and will continue to accrue until the full amount of the reclamation debt is paid or Treasury determines that payment is not required.
(3) Administrative costs. Treasury will assess administrative costs associated with the unpaid reclamation debt beginning on the 61st day following the reclamation date. Administrative costs will continue to accrue until the full amount of the reclamation debt is paid or Treasury determines that payment is not required.
Administrative costs.
Treasury will assess administrative costs associated with the unpaid reclamation debt beginning on the 61st day following the reclamation date. Administrative costs will continue to accrue until the full amount of the reclamation debt is paid or Treasury determines that payment is not required.
(e) If Treasury is unable to fully collect a reclamation debt from a reclamation debtor, after pursuing all appropriate means of collection (including, but not limited to, administrative offset in accordance with § 240.10 and Treasury Check Offset in accordance with § 240.11), Treasury will discharge the unpaid reclamation debt. See 31 CFR 903.5 (Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements). Treasury or the certifying agency will report the amount of the unpaid reclamation debt to the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1.

§ 240.9   Reclamation procedures; reclamation protests.

(a) Reclamation procedures. (1) Treasury will send a “NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION)” to the reclamation debtor in accordance with § 240.8(a). This notice will advise the reclamation debtor of the amount demanded and the reason for the demand. Treasury will provide notice to the reclamation debtor that:
Reclamation procedures.
(1) Treasury will send a “NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION)” to the reclamation debtor in accordance with § 240.8(a). This notice will advise the reclamation debtor of the amount demanded and the reason for the demand. Treasury will provide notice to the reclamation debtor that:
(i) If the reclamation debt is not paid within 30 days after the reclamation date, Treasury intends to collect the amount outstanding by instructing the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit on the 31st day the Master Account used by the reclamation debtor. The Federal Reserve Bank will provide advice of the debit to the reclamation debtor;
(ii) The reclamation debtor has an opportunity to inspect and copy Treasury's records with respect to the reclamation debt;
(iii) The reclamation debtor may, by filing a protest in accordance with § 240.9(b), request Treasury to review its decision that the reclamation debtor is liable for the reclamation debt. If such a protest is filed within 30 days after the reclamation date, Treasury will not instruct the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit the Master Account used by the reclamation debtor while the protest is still pending; and
(iv) The reclamation debtor has an opportunity to enter into a written agreement with Treasury for the repayment of the reclamation debt. A request for a repayment agreement must be accompanied by documentary proof that satisfies Treasury that the reclamation debtor is unable to repay the entire amount owed when due.
(2) Requests by a reclamation debtor for an appointment to inspect and copy Treasury's records with respect to a reclamation debt and requests to enter into repayment agreements must be sent in writing to the address provided on the Check Claims Web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/checkclaims or to such other address as Treasury may publish in the Goldbook: The Check Reclamation Guide, which can be found at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/checkclaims
or to such other address as Treasury may publish in the Goldbook: The Check Reclamation Guide, which can be found at
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
(3) If Treasury determines a reclamation debt is due and the Federal Reserve Bank is unable to debit the financial institution's Master Account, Fiscal Service will assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs in accordance with § 240.8. Additionally, Treasury will proceed to collect the reclamation debt through offset in accordance with § 240.10 and Treasury Check Offset in accordance with § 240.11.
(4) If Treasury determines a reclamation has been made in error, Treasury will abandon the reclamation. If Treasury already has collected the amount of the reclamation from the reclamation debtor, Treasury will promptly refund to the reclamation debtor the amount of its payment.
(b) Reclamation protests—(1) Who may protest. Only a reclamation debtor may protest a reclamation.
Reclamation protests
—(1)
Who may protest.
Only a reclamation debtor may protest a reclamation.
(2) Basis for protest. Where Treasury, in accordance with § 240.8 and paragraph (a) of this section, reclaims the amount of a check payment, the reclamation debtor may file a protest challenging such reclamation. Protests may be filed challenging the following determinations:
Basis for protest.
Where Treasury, in accordance with § 240.8 and paragraph (a) of this section, reclaims the amount of a check payment, the reclamation debtor may file a protest challenging such reclamation. Protests may be filed challenging the following determinations:
(i) Counterfeit checks. The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that it made all reasonable efforts to ensure that a check is authentic. The reclamation debtor must include evidence that the check was examined for a watermark as required under §§ 240.2(bb) and 240.4. Depending on the circumstances, Fiscal Service may require evidence that the reclamation debtor also examined the check for evidence of additional security features as described in guidance provided by Treasury or on Treasury's behalf.
Counterfeit checks.
The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that it made all reasonable efforts to ensure that a check is authentic. The reclamation debtor must include evidence that the check was examined for a watermark as required under §§ 240.2(bb) and 240.4. Depending on the circumstances, Fiscal Service may require evidence that the reclamation debtor also examined the check for evidence of additional security features as described in guidance provided by Treasury or on Treasury's behalf.
(ii) Altered checks. The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the check is not altered.
Altered checks.
The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the check is not altered.
(iii) Checks bearing forged or unauthorized drawer's signatures. The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the reclamation debtor did not have knowledge of the forged or unauthorized drawer's signature.
Checks bearing forged or unauthorized drawer's signatures.
The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the reclamation debtor did not have knowledge of the forged or unauthorized drawer's signature.
(iv) Checks bearing a forged or unauthorized indorsement. The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the indorsement was not forged or was otherwise authorized in accordance with the requirements of §§ 240.13 through 240.17.
Checks bearing a forged or unauthorized indorsement.
The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the indorsement was not forged or was otherwise authorized in accordance with the requirements of §§ 240.13 through 240.17.
(v) Prior presentment. The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check or a paper or electronic representation thereof has not already been presented to, and paid by, Treasury.
Prior presentment.
The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check or a paper or electronic representation thereof has not already been presented to, and paid by, Treasury.
(vi) Adequacy of substitute check or electronic check. The presenting bank may offer an original check or a copy of the check that is sufficient to support a determination that the check does not contain a material defect or alteration.
Adequacy of substitute check or electronic check.
The presenting bank may offer an original check or a copy of the check that is sufficient to support a determination that the check does not contain a material defect or alteration.
(3) Procedures for filing a protest. A reclamation protest must be sent in writing to the address provided on the Check Claims Web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/checkclaims or to such other address as Treasury may publish in the Goldbook: The Check Reclamation Guide, which can be found at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
Procedures for filing a protest.
A reclamation protest must be sent in writing to the address provided on the Check Claims Web site at
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/checkclaims
or to such other address as Treasury may publish in the Goldbook: The Check Reclamation Guide, which can be found at
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
(i) The reclamation protest must include supporting documentation (including, but not limited to, affidavits, account agreements, and signature cards) for the purpose of establishing that the reclamation debtor is not liable for the reclamation debt.
(ii) Treasury will not consider reclamation protests received more than 60 days after the reclamation date.
(iii) Treasury may, at its discretion, consider information received from a guarantor other than the reclamation debtor. However, in so doing, Treasury does not waive any of its rights under this part, nor does Treasury grant rights to any guarantor that are not otherwise provided in this part.
(4) Review of a reclamation protest. The responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will make every effort to decide any protest properly submitted under this section within 60 days, and will notify the reclamation debtor of Treasury's decision. In those cases where it is not possible to render a decision within 60 days, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will notify the reclamation debtor of the delay. Neither the responsible Fiscal Service Director, nor an authorized designee, will have any involvement in the process of making determinations under § 240.8(a) of this part or sending a “REQUEST FOR REFUND (CHECK RECLAMATION)” under § 240.9(a) of this part.
Review of a reclamation protest.
The responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will make every effort to decide any protest properly submitted under this section within 60 days, and will notify the reclamation debtor of Treasury's decision. In those cases where it is not possible to render a decision within 60 days, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will notify the reclamation debtor of the delay. Neither the responsible Fiscal Service Director, nor an authorized designee, will have any involvement in the process of making determinations under § 240.8(a) of this part or sending a “REQUEST FOR REFUND (CHECK RECLAMATION)” under § 240.9(a) of this part.
(i) Treasury will refrain from the collection activities identified in §§ 240.10 and 240.11 while a timely protest is being considered. However, interest, penalties, and administrative costs will continue to accrue and will be added to the reclamation debt until a final determination on the protest has been made.
(ii) If, based on the evidence provided, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, finds that the reclamation debtor has met, by a preponderance of the evidence, the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, Treasury will notify the reclamation debtor, in writing, of his or her decision to terminate collection and will refund any amounts previously collected for the reclamation debt. Treasury may refund the amount either by applying the amount to another reclamation debt owed by the reclamation debtor in accordance with this part or other applicable law, or by returning the amount to the reclamation debtor.
(iii) If the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, the reclamation debtor is liable for the reclamation debt, Treasury will notify the reclamation debtor of his or her decision in writing. If the reclamation debtor has not paid the reclamation in full, Treasury will direct the Federal Reserve Bank to debit the financial institution's Master Account immediately, provided at least 30 days have passed after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION). If at least 30 days have not yet passed after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION), Treasury will direct the Federal Reserve Bank to debit the financial institution's Master Account on the 31st day after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION). The Federal Reserve Bank will provide advice of the debit to the reclamation debtor. If the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank is unable to debit a reclamation debtor's Master Account, Treasury will proceed to collect the reclamation debt through offset in accordance with §§ 240.10 and 240.11.
(5) Effect of protest decision. The notice provided to the reclamation debtor under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section shall serve as the final agency determination under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701, et seq.). No civil suit may be filed until the reclamation debtor has filed a protest under this section, and Treasury has provided notice of its final determination.
Effect of protest decision.
The notice provided to the reclamation debtor under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section shall serve as the final agency determination under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701,
et seq.
). No civil suit may be filed until the reclamation debtor has filed a protest under this section, and Treasury has provided notice of its final determination.
[[69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 57909, Sept. 19, 2011]]

§ 240.10   Offset.

(a) If a reclamation debt remains unpaid for 120 days after the reclamation date, Treasury will refer the reclamation debt, if eligible, to Treasury's centralized offset program (see 31 CFR part 285) or another Federal agency for offset in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716. Prior to making a referral for offset, Treasury, in accordance with § 240.9(a)(3), will send at least one monthly statement to the reclamation debtor informing the reclamation debtor that Treasury intends to collect the reclamation debt by administrative offset and Treasury Check Offset.
(b) If a reclamation debtor wishes to make payment on a reclamation debt referred for offset, the reclamation debtor should contact Treasury at the address listed in § 240.9(b) to resolve the debt and avoid offset.
(c) If Treasury is unable to collect a reclamation debt by use of the offset described in paragraph (a) of this section, Treasury shall take such action against the reclamation debtor as may be necessary to protect the interests of the United States, including, but not limited to, Treasury Check Offset in accordance with § 240.11, or referral to the Department of Justice.
(d) If Treasury effects offset under this section and it is later determined that the reclamation debtor already had paid the amount of the reclamation debt, or that a reclamation debtor which had timely filed a protest was not liable for the amount of the reclamation, Treasury will promptly refund to the reclamation debtor the amount of its payment. Treasury may refund the amount either by applying the amount to another reclamation debt owed by the reclamation debtor in accordance with this part or other applicable law, or by returning the amount to the reclamation debtor.

§ 240.11   Treasury Check Offset.

(a) If Treasury is unable to effect collection pursuant to § 240.8, § 240.9, or § 240.10, of this part, Treasury will collect the amount of the reclamation debt through Treasury Check Offset. Treasury Check Offset occurs when, at the direction of the Treasury, a Federal Reserve Bank withholds, that is, offsets, credit from a presenting bank. The amount of credit offset is applied to the reclamation debt owed by the presenting bank. By presenting Treasury checks for payment, the presenting bank is deemed to authorize Treasury Check Offset.
(b) If Treasury effects offset under this section and it is later determined that the presenting bank paid the reclamation debt in full, or that a presenting bank was not liable for the amount of the reclamation debt, Treasury will promptly refund to the presenting bank the amount of its overpayment. Treasury may refund the amount either by applying the amount to another reclamation debt in accordance with this part or other applicable law, or by returning the amount to the presenting bank.
(c) Treasury Check Offset is used for the purpose of collecting debt owed by a presenting bank to the Federal Government. As a consequence, presenting banks shall not be able to use the fact that Treasury checks have not been paid as the basis for a claim against Treasury, a Federal Reserve Bank, or other persons or entities, including payees or other indorsers of checks, for the amount of the credit offset pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3712(e) and this section.
(d) This section does not apply to a claim based upon a reclamation that has been outstanding for more than 10 years from the date of delinquency.

§ 240.12   Processing of checks.

(a) Federal Reserve Banks. (1) Federal Reserve Banks must cash checks for Government disbursing officials when such checks are drawn by the disbursing officials to their own order, except that payment of such checks must be refused if:
Federal Reserve Banks.
(1) Federal Reserve Banks must cash checks for Government disbursing officials when such checks are drawn by the disbursing officials to their own order, except that payment of such checks must be refused if:
(i) A check bears a material defect or alteration;
(ii) A check was issued more than one year prior to the date of presentment;
(iii) The Federal Reservice Bank has been notified by Treasury, in accordance with § 240.15(c), that a check was issued to a deceased payee; or
(iv) The Federal Reserve Bank has been notified by Treasury that a check is not valid.
(2) Federal Reserve Banks are not required to cash checks presented directly to them by the general public.
(3) As a depositary of public funds, each Federal Reserve Bank shall:
(i) Receive checks from its member banks, nonmember clearing banks, or other depositors, when indorsed by such banks or depositors who guarantee all prior indorsements thereon;
(ii) Give immediate provisional credit therefore in accordance with their current Time Schedules and charge the amount of the checks cashed or otherwise received to the General Account of the United States Treasury, subject to first examination and payment by Treasury;
(iii) Forward payment records and requested checks to Treasury; and
(iv) Release the original checks and substitute checks to a designated Regional Records Services Facility upon notification from Treasury.
(4) If a check is to be declined under § 240.6, Treasury will provide the Federal Reserve Bank with notice of declination upon the completion of first examination. Federal Reserve Banks must give immediate credit therefor to Treasury's General Account, thereby reversing the previous charge to the General Account for such check.
(5) Treasury authorizes each Federal Reserve Bank to release a copy of the check to the presenting bank when payment is declined.
(b) Treasury General Account (TGA) designated depositaries outside the United States. (1) Financial institutions outside the United States designated by Treasury as depositaries of public money in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3303 and permitted to charge checks to the General Account of the United States Treasury in accordance with Treasury implementing instructions shall be governed by the operating instructions contained in the letter of authorization to them from Treasury and are, as presenting banks, subject to the provisions of §§ 240.4, 240.8, and 240.9.
Treasury General Account (TGA) designated depositaries outside the United States.
(1) Financial institutions outside the United States designated by Treasury as depositaries of public money in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3303 and permitted to charge checks to the General Account of the United States Treasury in accordance with Treasury implementing instructions shall be governed by the operating instructions contained in the letter of authorization to them from Treasury and are, as presenting banks, subject to the provisions of §§ 240.4, 240.8, and 240.9.
(2) If a check is to be declined under § 240.6, Treasury will provide the presenting bank with notice of declination upon the completion of first examination and will provide the presenting bank with a copy or image of the check. Such presenting bank must give immediate credit therefore to the General Account of the United States Treasury, thereby reversing the previous charge to the Account for such check. Treasury authorizes the designated Federal Reserve Bank to return to such presenting bank the original check when payment is declined in accordance with § 240.5(a) or § 240.15(c).
(3) To ensure complete recovery of the amount due, reclamation refunds require payment in United States dollars with checks drawn on or payable through United States financial institutions located in the United States. Reclamation refunds initiated by financial institutions outside of the United States must be sent through their headquarters or U.S. correspondent financial institution only. The payments should be accompanied by documentation identifying the check that was the subject of the reclamation (such as a copy of the reclamation notice or the current monthly statement). Reclamation refunds shall not be deposited to Treasury's General Account.
(4) Additional information relating to designated depositaries outside the United States may be found in Volume VI, Chapter 2000, of the Treasury Financial Manual, which can be found at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
[[69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, as amended at 88 FR 74889, Nov. 1, 2023]]

Indorsement of Checks


§ 240.13   Indorsement by payees.

(a) General requirements. Checks shall be indorsed by the named payee or by another on behalf of such named payee as set forth in this part.
General requirements.
Checks shall be indorsed by the named payee or by another on behalf of such named payee as set forth in this part.
(b) Acceptable indorsements. (1) A check is properly indorsed when:
Acceptable indorsements.
(1) A check is properly indorsed when:
(i) The check is indorsed by the payee in a form recognized by general principles of law and commercial usage for negotiation, transfer or collection of negotiable instruments.
(ii) The check is indorsed by another on behalf of the named payee, and sufficiently indicates that the indorser has indorsed the check on behalf of the payee pursuant to authority expressly conferred by or under law or other regulation. An example would be: “John Jones by Mary Jones.” This example states the minimum indication acceptable. However, §§ 240.14, 240.15, and 240.17(f) specify the addition of an indication in specified situations of the actual capacity in which the person other than the named payee is indorsing.
(iii) Absent a signature, the check is indorsed “for collection” or “for deposit only to the credit of the within named payee or payees.” The presenting bank shall be deemed to guarantee good title to checks without signatures to all subsequent indorsers and to Treasury.
(iv) The check is indorsed by a financial institution under the payee's authorization.
(2) Indorsement of checks by a duly authorized fiduciary or representative. The individual or institution accepting a check from a person other than the named payee is responsible for determining whether such person is authorized and has the capacity to indorse and negotiate the check. Evidence of the basis for such a determination may be required by Treasury in the event of a dispute.
Indorsement of checks by a duly authorized fiduciary or representative.
The individual or institution accepting a check from a person other than the named payee is responsible for determining whether such person is authorized and has the capacity to indorse and negotiate the check. Evidence of the basis for such a determination may be required by Treasury in the event of a dispute.
(3) Indorsement of checks by a financial institution under the payee's authorization. When a check is credited by a financial institution to the payee's account under the payee's authorization, the financial institution may use an indorsement substantially as follows: “Credit to the account of the within-named payee in accordance with the payee's instructions. XYZ [Name of financial institution].” A financial institution using this form of indorsement will be deemed to guarantee to all subsequent indorsers and to the Treasury that it is acting as an attorney-in-fact for the payee, under the payee's authorization, and that this authority is currently in force and has neither lapsed nor been revoked either in fact or by the death or incapacity of the payee.
Indorsement of checks by a financial institution under the payee's authorization.
When a check is credited by a financial institution to the payee's account under the payee's authorization, the financial institution may use an indorsement substantially as follows: “Credit to the account of the within-named payee in accordance with the payee's instructions. XYZ [Name of financial institution].” A financial institution using this form of indorsement will be deemed to guarantee to all subsequent indorsers and to the Treasury that it is acting as an attorney-in-fact for the payee, under the payee's authorization, and that this authority is currently in force and has neither lapsed nor been revoked either in fact or by the death or incapacity of the payee.
(4) Indorsement of checks drawn in favor of financial institutions. All checks drawn in favor of a financial institution, for credit to the account of a person designating payment so to be made, must be indorsed in the name of the financial institution as payee in the usual manner. However, no check drawn in favor of a financial institution for credit to the account of a payee may be negotiated by the financial institution after the death of the payee.
Indorsement of checks drawn in favor of financial institutions.
All checks drawn in favor of a financial institution, for credit to the account of a person designating payment so to be made, must be indorsed in the name of the financial institution as payee in the usual manner. However, no check drawn in favor of a financial institution for credit to the account of a payee may be negotiated by the financial institution after the death of the payee.
(c) Unacceptable indorsements. (1) A check is not properly indorsed when the check is signed or otherwise is indorsed by a person without the payee's consent or authorization.
Unacceptable indorsements.
(1) A check is not properly indorsed when the check is signed or otherwise is indorsed by a person without the payee's consent or authorization.
(2) Failure to include the signature of the person signing the check as required by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section will create a rebuttable presumption that the indorsement is a forgery and is unacceptable.
(3) Failure to include sufficient indication of the indorser's authority to act on behalf of the payee as required by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section will create a rebuttable presumption that the indorsing person is not authorized to indorse a check for the payee.

§ 240.14   Checks issued to incompetent payees.

(a) Handling of checks when a guardian or other fiduciary has been appointed. (1) A guardian appointed in accordance with applicable State law, or a fiduciary appointed in accordance with other applicable law, may indorse checks issued for the following classes of payments the right to which under law does not terminate with the death of the payee: payments for the redemption of currencies or for principal and/or interest on U.S. securities; payments for tax refunds; and payments for goods and services.
Handling of checks when a guardian or other fiduciary has been appointed.
(1) A guardian appointed in accordance with applicable State law, or a fiduciary appointed in accordance with other applicable law, may indorse checks issued for the following classes of payments the right to which under law does not terminate with the death of the payee: payments for the redemption of currencies or for principal and/or interest on U.S. securities; payments for tax refunds; and payments for goods and services.
(i) A guardian or other fiduciary indorsing any such check on behalf of an incompetent payee, must include, as part of the indorsement, an indication of the capacity in which the guardian or fiduciary is indorsing. An example would be: “John Jones by Mary Jones, guardian of John Jones.”
(ii) When a check indorsed in this fashion is presented for payment by a financial institution, it will be paid by Treasury without submission of documentary proof of the authority of the guardian or other fiduciary, with the understanding that evidence of such claimed authority to indorse may be required by Treasury in the event of a dispute.
(2) A guardian or other fiduciary may not indorse a check issued for any class of payment other than one specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. When a check other than one specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is received by a guardian or other fiduciary, the check must be returned to the certifying agency with information as to the incompetence of the payee and documentary evidence showing the appointment of the guardian or other fiduciary in order that a replacement check, and future checks, may be drawn in favor of the guardian or other fiduciary.
(b) Handling of checks when a guardian or other fiduciary has not been appointed. If a guardian or other fiduciary has not been appointed, all checks issued to an incompetent payee must be returned to the certifying agency for determination as to whether, under applicable law, payment is due and to whom it may be made.
Handling of checks when a guardian or other fiduciary has not been appointed.
If a guardian or other fiduciary has not been appointed, all checks issued to an incompetent payee must be returned to the certifying agency for determination as to whether, under applicable law, payment is due and to whom it may be made.
(c) Handling of certain checks by an attorney-in-fact. Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if a check was issued for a class of payments the right to which under law terminates upon the death of the beneficiary, such as a recurring benefit payment or annuity, the check may be negotiated under a durable special power of attorney or springing durable special power of attorney subject to the restrictions enumerated in § 240.17. After the end of the six-month period provided in §§ 240.17(d) and (e), such checks must be handled in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
Handling of certain checks by an attorney-in-fact.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if a check was issued for a class of payments the right to which under law terminates upon the death of the beneficiary, such as a recurring benefit payment or annuity, the check may be negotiated under a durable special power of attorney or springing durable special power of attorney subject to the restrictions enumerated in § 240.17. After the end of the six-month period provided in §§ 240.17(d) and (e), such checks must be handled in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

§ 240.15   Checks issued to deceased payees.

(a) Handling of checks when an executor or administrator has been appointed. (1) An executor or administrator of an estate that has been appointed in accordance with applicable State law may indorse checks issued for the following classes of payments the right to which under law does not terminate with the death of the payee: payments for the redemption of currencies or for principal and/or interest on U.S. securities; payments for tax refunds; and payments for goods and services.
Handling of checks when an executor or administrator has been appointed.
(1) An executor or administrator of an estate that has been appointed in accordance with applicable State law may indorse checks issued for the following classes of payments the right to which under law does not terminate with the death of the payee: payments for the redemption of currencies or for principal and/or interest on U.S. securities; payments for tax refunds; and payments for goods and services.
(i) An executor or administrator indorsing any such check must include, as part of the indorsement, an indication of the capacity in which the executor or administrator is indorsing. An example would be: “John Jones by Mary Jones, executor of the estate of John Jones.”
(ii) When a check indorsed in this fashion is presented for payment by a financial institution, it will be paid by Treasury without the submission of documentary proof of the authority of the executor or administrator, with the understanding that evidence of such claimed authority to indorse may be required by Treasury in the event of a dispute.
(2) An executor or administrator of an estate may not indorse a check issued for any class of payment other than one specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Other checks, such as recurring benefit payments and annuity payments, may not be negotiated after the death of the payee. Such checks must be returned to the certifying agency for determination as to whether, under applicable law, payment is due and to whom it may be made.
(b) Handling of checks when an executor or administrator has not been appointed. If an executor or administrator has not been appointed, all checks issued to a deceased payee must be returned to the certifying agency for determination as to whether, under applicable law, payment is due and to whom it may be made.
Handling of checks when an executor or administrator has not been appointed.
If an executor or administrator has not been appointed, all checks issued to a deceased payee must be returned to the certifying agency for determination as to whether, under applicable law, payment is due and to whom it may be made.
(c) Handling of checks when a certifying agency learns, after the issuance of a recurring benefit payment check, that the payee died prior to the date of issuance. (1) A recurring benefit payment check, issued after a payee's death, is not payable. As a consequence, when a certifying agency learns that a payee has died, the certifying agency must give immediate notice to Treasury, as prescribed at Volume I, Part 4, Chapter 7000 of the Treasury Financial Manual, which can be found at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov. Upon receipt of such notice from a certifying agency, Treasury will instruct the Federal Reserve Bank to refuse payment of the check upon presentment. Upon receipt of such instruction from Treasury, the Federal Reserve Bank will make every appropriate effort to intercept the check. If the check is successfully intercepted, the Federal Reserve Bank will refuse payment, and will return the check unpaid to the presenting bank with an annotation that the payee is deceased. If a financial institution learns that a date of death triggering action under this section is erroneous, the financial institution must advise the payee to contact the payment certifying agency.
Handling of checks when a certifying agency learns, after the issuance of a recurring benefit payment check, that the payee died prior to the date of issuance.
(1) A recurring benefit payment check, issued after a payee's death, is not payable. As a consequence, when a certifying agency learns that a payee has died, the certifying agency must give immediate notice to Treasury, as prescribed at Volume I, Part 4, Chapter 7000 of the Treasury Financial Manual, which can be found at
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
Upon receipt of such notice from a certifying agency, Treasury will instruct the Federal Reserve Bank to refuse payment of the check upon presentment. Upon receipt of such instruction from Treasury, the Federal Reserve Bank will make every appropriate effort to intercept the check. If the check is successfully intercepted, the Federal Reserve Bank will refuse payment, and will return the check unpaid to the presenting bank with an annotation that the payee is deceased. If a financial institution learns that a date of death triggering action under this section is erroneous, the financial institution must advise the payee to contact the payment certifying agency.
(2) Nothing in this section shall limit the right of Treasury to institute reclamation proceedings under the provisions of §§ 240.8 and 240.9 with respect to a check issued to a deceased payee that has been negotiated and paid over a forged or unauthorized indorsement.

§ 240.16   Checks issued to minor payees.

(a) Checks in payment of principal and/or interest on U.S. securities that are issued to minors may be indorsed by:
(1) Either parent with whom the minor resides; or
(2) If the minor does not reside with either parent, by the person who furnishes the minor's chief support.
(b) The parent or other person indorsing on behalf of the minor must present with the check the indorser's signed statement giving the minor's age, and stating that the payee either resides with the parent or receives his or her chief support from the person indorsing on the minor's behalf and that the proceeds of the check will be used for the minor's benefit.

§ 240.17   Powers of attorney.

(a) Specific powers of attorney. Any check may be negotiated under a specific power of attorney executed in accordance with applicable State or Federal law after the issuance of the check and describing the check in full (check serial and symbol numbers, date of issue, amount, and name of payee).
Specific powers of attorney.
Any check may be negotiated under a specific power of attorney executed in accordance with applicable State or Federal law after the issuance of the check and describing the check in full (check serial and symbol numbers, date of issue, amount, and name of payee).
(b) General powers of attorney. Checks may be negotiated under a general power of attorney executed, in accordance with applicable State or Federal law, in favor of a person for the following classes of payments:
General powers of attorney.
Checks may be negotiated under a general power of attorney executed, in accordance with applicable State or Federal law, in favor of a person for the following classes of payments:
(1) Payments for the redemption of currencies or for principal and/or interest on U.S. securities;
(2) Payments for tax refunds, but subject to the limitations concerning the mailing of Internal Revenue refund checks contained in 26 CFR 601.506(c); and
(3) Payments for goods and services.
(c) Special powers of attorney. Checks issued for classes of payments other than those specified in paragraph (b) of this section, such as a recurring benefit payment, may be negotiated under a special power of attorney executed in accordance with applicable State or Federal law, which describes the purpose for which the checks are issued, names a person as attorney-in-fact, and recites that the special power of attorney is not given to carry into effect an assignment of the right to receive such payment, either to the attorney-in-fact or to any other person.
Special powers of attorney.
Checks issued for classes of payments other than those specified in paragraph (b) of this section, such as a recurring benefit payment, may be negotiated under a special power of attorney executed in accordance with applicable State or Federal law, which describes the purpose for which the checks are issued, names a person as attorney-in-fact, and recites that the special power of attorney is not given to carry into effect an assignment of the right to receive such payment, either to the attorney-in-fact or to any other person.
(d) Durable special powers of attorney. A durable special power of attorney is a special power of attorney that continues despite the principal's later incompetency, and is created by the principal's use of words explicitly stating such intent. Classes of checks other than those specified in paragraph (b) of this section may be negotiated under a durable special power of attorney executed in accordance with applicable State or Federal law, which describes the purpose for which the checks are issued, names a person as attorney-in-fact, and recites that the special power of attorney is not given to carry into effect an assignment of the right to receive such payment, either to the attorney-in-fact or to any other person. For the purpose of negotiating Treasury checks, durable special powers of attorney are effective only during the six-month period following a determination that the named payee is incompetent.
Durable special powers of attorney.
A durable special power of attorney is a special power of attorney that continues despite the principal's later incompetency, and is created by the principal's use of words explicitly stating such intent. Classes of checks other than those specified in paragraph (b) of this section may be negotiated under a durable special power of attorney executed in accordance with applicable State or Federal law, which describes the purpose for which the checks are issued, names a person as attorney-in-fact, and recites that the special power of attorney is not given to carry into effect an assignment of the right to receive such payment, either to the attorney-in-fact or to any other person. For the purpose of negotiating Treasury checks, durable special powers of attorney are effective only during the six-month period following a determination that the named payee is incompetent.
(e) Springing durable special powers of attorney. A springing durable special power of attorney is similar to a durable power of attorney except that its terms do not become effective until the principal's subsequent incompetence. As with a durable special power of attorney, a springing durable special power of attorney is created by the principal's use of language explicitly stating that its terms become effective at such time as the principal is determined to be incompetent. Classes of checks other than those specified in paragraph (b) of this section may be negotiated under a springing durable special power of attorney executed in accordance with applicable State or Federal law, which describes the purpose for which the checks are issued, names a person as attorney-in-fact, and recites that the springing durable special power of attorney is not given to carry into effect an assignment of the right to receive payment, either to the attorney-in-fact or to any other person. For the purpose of negotiating Treasury checks, springing durable special powers of attorney are effective only during the six-month period following a determination that the named payee is incompetent.
Springing durable special powers of attorney.
A springing durable special power of attorney is similar to a durable power of attorney except that its terms do not become effective until the principal's subsequent incompetence. As with a durable special power of attorney, a springing durable special power of attorney is created by the principal's use of language explicitly stating that its terms become effective at such time as the principal is determined to be incompetent. Classes of checks other than those specified in paragraph (b) of this section may be negotiated under a springing durable special power of attorney executed in accordance with applicable State or Federal law, which describes the purpose for which the checks are issued, names a person as attorney-in-fact, and recites that the springing durable special power of attorney is not given to carry into effect an assignment of the right to receive payment, either to the attorney-in-fact or to any other person. For the purpose of negotiating Treasury checks, springing durable special powers of attorney are effective only during the six-month period following a determination that the named payee is incompetent.
(f) Proof of authority. Checks indorsed by an attorney-in-fact must include, as part of the indorsement, an indication of the capacity in which the attorney-in-fact is indorsing. An example would be: “John Jones by Paul Smith, attorney-in-fact for John Jones.” Such checks when presented for payment by a financial institution, will be paid by Treasury without the submission of documentary proof of the claimed authority, with the understanding that evidence of such claimed authority to indorse may be required by Treasury in the event of a dispute.
Proof of authority.
Checks indorsed by an attorney-in-fact must include, as part of the indorsement, an indication of the capacity in which the attorney-in-fact is indorsing. An example would be: “John Jones by Paul Smith, attorney-in-fact for John Jones.” Such checks when presented for payment by a financial institution, will be paid by Treasury without the submission of documentary proof of the claimed authority, with the understanding that evidence of such claimed authority to indorse may be required by Treasury in the event of a dispute.
(g) Revocation of powers of attorney. Notwithstanding any other law, for purposes of negotiating Treasury checks, all powers of attorney are deemed revoked by the death of the principal and may also be deemed revoked by notice from the principal to the parties known, or reasonably expected, to be acting on the power of attorney.
Revocation of powers of attorney.
Notwithstanding any other law, for purposes of negotiating Treasury checks, all powers of attorney are deemed revoked by the death of the principal and may also be deemed revoked by notice from the principal to the parties known, or reasonably expected, to be acting on the power of attorney.
(h) Optional use forms. Optional use power of attorney forms are listed in the appendix to this part. These forms are available on the Fiscal Service website at: http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/ checkclaims/ regulations.html.
Optional use forms.
Optional use power of attorney forms are listed in the appendix to this part. These forms are available on the Fiscal Service website at:
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/ checkclaims/ regulations.html.

§ 240.18   Lack of authority to shift liability.

(a) This part neither authorizes nor directs a financial institution to debit the account of any person or to deposit any funds from any account into a suspense account or escrow account or the equivalent. Nothing in this part shall be construed to affect a financial institution's contract with its depositor(s) under authority of state law.
(b) A financial institution's liability under this part is not affected by any action taken by it to recover from any person the amount of the financial institution's liability to the Treasury.

§ 240.19   Reservation of rights.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, in the Secretary's discretion, to waive any provision(s) of this regulation not otherwise required by law.

Appendix A to Part 240—Optional Forms for Powers of Attorney and Their Application

Fiscal Service Form 231—General Power of Attorney (Individual). This general power of attorney form may be executed by an individual, unincorporated partnership, or sole owner, for checks drawn on the United States Treasury, in payment: (1) For redemption of currencies or for principal or interest on U.S. securities; (2) for tax refunds; and (3) for goods and services.
Fiscal Service Form 232—Specific Power of Attorney (Individual). This specific power of attorney form may be executed by an individual, unincorporated partnership, or sole owner to authorize the indorsement of any class of check drawn on the United States Treasury. To be valid, the form must be executed after the issuance of the check and must describe the check in full, including the check serial and symbol numbers, date of issue, amount, and name of the payee.
Fiscal Service Form 233—Special Power of Attorney (Individual). This special power of attorney form may be executed by an individual, unincorporated partnership, or sole owner, to authorize the indorsement of payments other than those listed under Fiscal Service Form 231, such as recurring benefit payments. It may name any person (as the term person is defined in 31 CFR part 240) as attorney-in-fact, but must describe the purpose for which the checks are issued and recite that it is not given to carry into effect an assignment of the right to receive payment, either to the attorney-in-fact or to any other person. A special power of attorney is not effective for purposes of negotiating checks issued after the payee is determined to be incompetent, unless the payee has indicated that the special power of attorney is to: (1) Remain effective following a determination that the principal is incompetent (a durable special power of attorney); or (2) become effective following a determination that the principal is incompetent (a springing durable special power of attorney). In no instance may a special power of attorney be used as the basis for negotiation of a check drawn on the United States Treasury more than six months after a determination that the principal is incompetent.
Fiscal Service Form 234—Specific Power of Attorney (Corporation). This general power of attorney form may be executed by a corporation to authorize the indorsement by an attorney-in-fact for the classes of payments listed under Fiscal Service Form 231. When authority is given to an officer of the corporation to execute a power of attorney authorizing a third person to indorse and collect checks drawn on the United States Treasury in the name of the corporation, the power of attorney on Fiscal Service Form 234 should be accompanied by Fiscal Service Form 235 (Resolution by Corporation Conferring Authority Upon an Officer to Execute a Power of Attorney for the Collection of Checks Drawn on the Treasurer of the United States), executed by the officer authorized herein to execute such a power.
Fiscal Service Form 236—Specific Power of Attorney (Corporation). This specific power of attorney form may be executed by a corporation to authorize the indorsement by an attorney-in-fact of any class of check drawn on the United States Treasury. To be valid, the form must be executed after the issuance of the check and must describe the check in full, including the check serial and symbol numbers, date of issue, amount, and name of the payee. When authority is given to an officer of the corporation to execute a power of attorney authorizing a third person to indorse and collect checks drawn on the United States Treasury in the name of the corporation, the power of attorney on Fiscal Service Form 236 should be accompanied by Fiscal Service Form 235 (Resolution by Corporation Conferring Authority Upon an Officer to Execute a Power of Attorney for the Collection of Checks Drawn on the Treasurer of the United States), executed by the officer authorized herein to execute such a power.

PART 245—CLAIMS ON ACCOUNT OF TREASURY CHECKS

[Authority:R.S. 3646, as amended; 31 U.S.C. 3328; 31 U.S.C. 3331.]
Authority:
R.S. 3646, as amended; 31 U.S.C. 3328; 31 U.S.C. 3331.
[Source:54 FR 35647, Aug. 29, 1989, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
54 FR 35647, Aug. 29, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

§ 245.1   Introductory.

This part governs the issuance of replacement checks for checks drawn on the United States Treasury, when
(a) The original check has been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated or defaced to such an extent that it is rendered non-negotiable;
(b) The original check has been negotiated and paid on a forged or unauthorized indorsement, and
(c) The original check has been cancelled pursuant to § 204.4 of this chapter.

§ 245.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:
(a) Agency means each authority of the United States for which the Treasury of the United States issues checks or for which checks drawn on the Treasury of the United States are issued.
Agency
means each authority of the United States for which the Treasury of the United States issues checks or for which checks drawn on the Treasury of the United States are issued.
(b) Check means a check drawn on the United States Treasury.
Check
means a check drawn on the United States Treasury.
(c) Certifying Agency means an agency for whom a Treasury disbursing officer or a non-Treasury disbursing officer makes payment in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3325. The responsibilities of a certifying official are set forth at 31 U.S.C. 3528.
Certifying Agency
means an agency for whom a Treasury disbursing officer or a non-Treasury disbursing officer makes payment in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3325. The responsibilities of a certifying official are set forth at 31 U.S.C. 3528.
(d) Commissioner means the Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20227.
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20227.
(e) Person means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a labor organization, a government or a subdivision or instrumentality thereof, and any other entity to which a check may be issued.
Person
means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a labor organization, a government or a subdivision or instrumentality thereof, and any other entity to which a check may be issued.
(f) Replacement check means a check issued pursuant to the recertification of payment by a certifying official.
Replacement check
means a check issued pursuant to the recertification of payment by a certifying official.
(g) Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 245.3   Time limit for check claims.

(a) Any claim on account of a Treasury check must be presented to the agency that authorized the issuance of such check within one year after the date of issuance of the check or within one year after October 1, 1989, whichever is later.
(b) Any claim by an indorser under § 245.6 will be considered timely if presented to the Commissioner within one year after the date of issuance of the check or within one year after October 1, 1989, whichever is later.
(c) Nothing in this subsection affects the underlying obligation of the United States, or any agency thereof, for which a Treasury check was issued.

§ 245.4   Advice of nonreceipt or loss.

(a) In the event of the nonreceipt, loss or destruction of a check drawn on the United States Treasury, or the mutilation or defacement of such a check to an exent which renders it nonnegotiable, the claimant should immediately notify the agency that authorized the issuance of such check, describing the check, stating the purpose for which it was issued and giving, if possible, its date, amount, Treasury symbol and number.
(b) In cases involving mutiliated or defaced checks, the claimant should enclose the mutilated or defaced check with his communication to the agency.

§ 245.5   Recertification of payment.

Upon receipt of a claim concerning the nonreceipt, loss, destruction, mutilation or defacement of a check, or the cancellation of a check pursuant to § 240.4 of this chapter, the certifying agency may certify a new payment.

§ 245.6   Claim by an indorser.

When one or more Treasury checks are lost, stolen or destroyed in a single incident while in the possession of a person to whom the checks have been negotiated by the payee, and if the checks have not been paid, the Commissioner may issue a replacement check to the person to whom the checks had been negotiated.

§ 245.7   Check status inquiry.

The Commissioner will provide the status and a copy of the check if available, upon request, to the agency which authorized the issuance of the check.

§ 245.8   Receipt or recovery of original check.

(a) If the original check is received or recovered by the claimant after he has requested the agency to issue a replacement check, but before a replacement check has been received, he should immediately advise the agency and hold such check until receipt of instructions with respect to the negotiability of such check.
(b) If the original check is received or recovered by the claimant after a replacement check has been received by him, the original shall not be cashed, but shall be forwarded immediately to the agency that authorized the issuance of such check. Under no circumstances should both the original and replacement checks be cashed.

§ 245.9   Procedural instructions.

The Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service may issue procedural instructions, implementing these regulations, in Volume I, Part 4 of the Treasury Financial Manual.

§ 245.10   Performance of functions of the Commissioner.

The Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Services may authorize any officer of the Treasury Department to perform any of his functions under this part and to redelegate such authority within such limits as the Commissioner may prescribe.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1510-0058)

PART 248—ISSUE OF SUBSTITUTES OF LOST, STOLEN, DESTROYED, MUTILATED AND DEFACED CHECKS OF THE UNITED STATES DRAWN ON ACCOUNTS MAINTAINED IN DEPOSITARY BANKS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES OR UNITED STATES TERRITORIES OR POSSESSIONS

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3331.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3331.
[Source:25 FR 10869, Nov. 16, 1960, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 39 FR 20969, June 17, 1974.]
Source:
25 FR 10869, Nov. 16, 1960, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 39 FR 20969, June 17, 1974.

§ 248.1   Introductory.

This part governs the issuance of substitutes for checks of the United States drawn on United States dollar or foreign currency accounts, maintained with designated depositaries in foreign countries or territories or possessions of the United States. Checks of the United States drawn on such depositaries are hereafter referred to as “depositary checks.”
[[54 FR 35647, Aug. 29, 1989]]

Delegation of Authority


§ 248.2   Delegation of authority to issue substitute checks.

Pursuant to authority contained in section 3646 of the Revised Statutes, as amended, and subject to such procedural requirements as may be prescribed by the Treasury Department, there is hereby delegated to heads of departments and agencies whose disbursing officers issue depositary checks, authority to authorize officers or employees of their respective departments or agencies to issue substitutes of such checks, prior to the close of the fiscal year next following the fiscal year in which the checks are issued, and to receive and approve undertakings to indemnify the United States in such cases. The Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, is hereby delegated authority to issue substitutes of depositary checks drawn by the Director, Operations Group, Treasury Department, or by officers disbursing under delegation from the Director, Operations Group, and to receive and approve undertakings of indemnity in such cases. The authority delegated to the Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service may be redelegated by him to such disbursing officers.
[[39 FR 20969, June 17, 1974, as amended at 49 FR 47001, 47002, Nov. 30, 1984]]

Action To Be Taken by Claimants


§ 248.3   Advice of nonreceipt or loss.

The payee or owner of a depositary check which is not received, or which has been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated or defaced to such an extent that it is rendered non-negotiable, should immediately notify the disbursing officer who issued such check or the administrative agency exercising jurisdiction over such disbursing officer, over his signature and current address, giving information as to the circumstances of the loss, theft or destruction of the check and whether it was endorsed, and also requesting that payment of the check be stopped. A claimant who is one other than the payee of the check, should present a statement in support of his ownership of the check. If the check has been mutilated or defaced, it should be forwarded to the issuing disbursing officer with request for the issuance of a substitute.

§ 248.4   Undertaking of indemnity.

(a) If the check is found to be outstanding and unpaid and it appears that the proceeds are due the claimant, the disbursing officer will request the claimant to execute an undertaking of indemnity, Form 2244, in a penal sum equal to the amount of the check (or checks).
(b) Except in the circumstances set forth below, a corporate surety authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury to act as an acceptable surety on bonds in favor of the United States or two responsible individual sureties will be required on the undertaking of indemnity. It will be the responsibility of the claimant in a foreign country to secure a certification as to the financial sufficiency of the individual sureties executed by one of the persons listed in, and in the manner prescribed by, the instruction appearing under the Certificate as to Sureties on the face of Form 2244.
(c) Where the amount of the original check (or checks) is $200 or less, or the equivalent in foreign currency, one financially responsible individual surety may be accepted.
(d) Unless it is determined that the requirement of sureties is essential in the public interest, sureties will not be required under the following circumstances:
(1) If the officer authorized to issue a substitute check is satisfied that the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement of the original check occurred without fault of the owner or holder and while the check was in the custody or control of the United States or of a person duly authorized as an agent of the United States when performing services in connection with an official function of the United States;
(2) If substantially the entire check is presented and surrendered by the owner or holder and the disbursing officer is satisfied as to the identity of the check presented and that any missing portions are not sufficient to form the basis of a valid claim against the United States;
(3) If the owner or holder is the United States or an officer or employee thereof in his official capacity, a State, the District of Columbia, a territory or possession of the United States, a municipal corporation or political subdivision of any of the foregoing, a corporation the entire capital of which is owned by the United States, a foreign government or agency thereof, a foreign central bank, or a Federal Reserve Bank.

§ 248.5   Exception to requirement of undertaking of indemnity Form 2244.

Notwithstanding the provisions of § 248.4, if in any case involving a financially responsible claimant it is impracticable to obtain the execution of Standard Form 2244, with or without sureties, the officer or employee responsible for handling the claim, in his discretion, may accept an undertaking of indemnity in the form of a written statement or letter, substantially as follows:
In consideration of the issuance of a substitute check in lieu of
(Check description)
and the payment of the substitute check, the undersigned undertakes and agrees to save harmless and indemnify the United States of America, its officers and agents, of and from any and all liability, loss, expense, claim, and demand whatsoever, arising in any manner by reason of or on account of said original check (or checks) or the stoppage or payment thereof, or the issue or payment of the substitute check (or checks), to replace the same.
The undertaking of indemnity should be appropriately witnessed, and if it is executed on behalf of a corporation or other business organization, the individual executing the same should furnish proof of this authority to so act. In appropriate cases, a foreign language translation of the foregoing letter of indemnity may be accepted.
[[25 FR 10869, Nov. 16, 1960. Redesignated at 39 FR 20969, June 17, 1974, as amended at 54 FR 35648, Aug. 29, 1989]]

§ 248.6   Recovery of original check.

(a) If the claimant recovers an original check after he has furnished advice of non-receipt but before receipt of a substitute check, he should immediately notify the disbursing officer or agency concerned and hold the check until receipt of advice from the disbursing officer or agency concerned regarding the negotiability of such original check.
(b) In the event the substitute check has been received prior to the recovery of the original check, the original check should be returned immediately to the disbursing officer.
(c) Under no circumstances should the claimant attempt to cash both the original and substitute check.

§ 248.7   Claims requiring settlement action.

There are certain types of claims on which the disbursing officer will not be authorized to take final action. These include:
(a) Claims on original checks which have been outstanding more than one full fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the checks were issued, and
(b) Claims involving doubtful questions of law and fact.
In such cases the disbursing officer will obtain information and supporting papers, including an undertaking of indemnity, from the claimant and transmit such data to the Claims Division, General Accounting Office, for settlement action.

§ 248.8   Inquiries.

Claimants should direct any inquiries regarding the application of these regulations to the department or agency or disbursing officer concerned.

§ 248.9   Amendments and waivers.

The Treasury Department may waive, withdraw or amend at any time or from time to time any or all of the foregoing regulations.

PART 250—PAYMENT ON ACCOUNT OF AWARDS OF THE FOREIGN CLAIMS SETTLEMENT COMMISSION OF THE UNITED STATES

[Authority:Sec. 7, 64 Stat. 16, sec. 310, 69 Stat. 573, sec. 413, 72 Stat. 530, sec. 213, 76 Stat. 1111; 22 U.S.C. 1626, 1641i, 1642l, 50 U.S.C. App. 2017l.]
Authority:
Sec. 7, 64 Stat. 16, sec. 310, 69 Stat. 573, sec. 413, 72 Stat. 530, sec. 213, 76 Stat. 1111; 22 U.S.C. 1626, 1641i, 1642
l,
50 U.S.C. App. 2017
l.

§ 250.1   Scope of regulations.

The regulations in this part govern payment by the Department of the Treasury on awards made and certified to the Secretary of the Treasury by the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission under the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1621 et seq.), and Title II of the War Claims Act of 1948 (50 U.S.C. App. 2017 et seq.).
et seq.
), and Title II of the War Claims Act of 1948 (50 U.S.C. App. 2017
et seq.
).
[[34 FR 1897, Feb. 8, 1969]]

§ 250.2   Forms.

The forms referred to in §§ 250.3 and 250.4 shall be used in connection with the payment of awards hereunder. Voucher applications for all payments will be mailed to awardees by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Hyattsville, MD 20782, without request therefor by awardees.
[[31 FR 9418, July 9, 1966, as amended at 49 FR 47001, Nov. 30, 1984; 58 FR 4578, Jan. 15, 1993]]

§ 250.3   Voucher applications.

(a) Execution of voucher by person named. No payment of any part of the amount due on account of an award will be made unless a voucher application therefor properly executed (preferably in ink or indelible pencil) is received by the Treasury Department. A voucher application for each payment on account of an award must be signed by each person whose name appears on such voucher application as payee exactly as his name appears thereon, with the following two exceptions:
Execution of voucher by person named.
No payment of any part of the amount due on account of an award will be made unless a voucher application therefor properly executed (preferably in ink or indelible pencil) is received by the Treasury Department. A voucher application for each payment on account of an award must be signed by each person whose name appears on such voucher application as payee exactly as his name appears thereon, with the following two exceptions:
(1) If only the name of the payee, and not his identity, has changed, the payee shall sign the voucher application with his changed name and return it to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Hyattsville, MD 20782; the voucher application shall be accompanied by an explanatory affidavit and appropriate supporting documents, e.g., a copy of a marriage certificate or court order of change of name.
(2) If the identity of the payee has changed, paragraph (b) of this section shall apply. A signature by mark (X) must be witnessed by two persons; the signature and address of each must appear on the voucher application. In the case of a corporation the voucher application must be signed by an appropriate officer thereof having authority to do so, whose authority to sign on behalf of the corporation must be duly certified to thereon over the seal of the corporation.
(b) Execution of voucher by other person. If the person named in the voucher application as payee is no longer the proper person to receive the payment by reason of assignment, incompetency or death, or of termination of a partnership or corporation named, the voucher shall be executed by the person entitled to payment as provided in 250.4 and returned to the Credit Accounting Branch with the relevant information and the appropriate supporting documents required by that section.
Execution of voucher by other person.
If the person named in the voucher application as payee is no longer the proper person to receive the payment by reason of assignment, incompetency or death, or of termination of a partnership or corporation named, the voucher shall be executed by the person entitled to payment as provided in 250.4 and returned to the Credit Accounting Branch with the relevant information and the appropriate supporting documents required by that section.
[[31 FR 9418, July 9, 1966, as amended at 49 FR 47001, Nov. 30, 1984; 58 FR 4578, Jan. 15, 1993]]

§ 250.4   Payment on awards.

Payment will be made only to the person or persons on behalf of whom the award is made, except in the following circumstances:
(a) If such person is incompetent, payment will be made to his guardian, committee, or other equivalent legal representative. The law of the residence of the incompetent will determine whether the legal representative must be court appointed. If court appointment is required, the legal representative shall submit a certificate of the clerk of the appointing court, under its seal, dated within 6 months of the date of the voucher application for payment, showing that his appointment is in full force and effect. If court appointment is not required, the legal representative shall submit a notarized statement showing:
(1) His relationship to the incompetent;
(2) The name and address of the person having care and custody of the incompetent;
(3) That any money received will be applied to the use and benefit of the incompetent, and
(4) That there was no appointment of a guardian or committee.
(b) If such person is deceased, payment will be made to his legal representative.
(1) If any payment to be made is not over $1,000 and there is no qualified executor or administrator, the legal representative will be the person found by the Comptroller General to be entitled thereto, without the necessity of compliance with the requirements of law with respect to the administration of estates, upon execution and submission of Standard Form No. 1055 to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for transmittal to the Comptroller General. That form is available from the Credit Accounting Branch.
(2) In all other cases, the term legal representative shall include court-appointed or statutory administrators or executors, and successors in interest of the decedent, e.g., his legatees or heirs as determined by an appropriate court or by the law of his residence. If administration of the decedent's estate is closed, the legal representative shall submit a copy of the appropriate court's final order of distribution or other pertinent order, identifying the distributees and their addresses. If administration continues and the legal representative is court-appointed, he shall submit a certificate of the clerk of the appointing court, under its seal, dated within 6 months of the date of the voucher application for payment, showing that such appointment is in full force and effect. If the legal representative is not court-appointed, he shall submit evidence sufficient to prove his interest and authority to apply for payment. If that evidence is a copy of the decedent's will, it shall show on its face or by attachments thereto that it has been offered for probate, and that the appropriate court has affixed its seal and attached its certification of authenticity that the will is in fact the decedent's last will and testament.
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) In the case of a partnership or corporation, the existence of which has been terminated, if a receiver or trustee has been duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States and has not been discharged prior to the date of payment, payment will be made to such receiver or trustee in accordance with the order of the court. In the event a receiver or trustee duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States makes an assignment of the claim or any part thereof with respect to which an award is made, or makes an assignment of such award or any part thereof, payment will be made to the assignee as his interest may appear. In the latter circumstance, certified copies of the court orders showing the authority of the receiver or trustee to make the assignment shall be submitted with the assignment. No particular form of assignment is prescribed, but the original assignment must be submitted to, and will be retained by the Treasury Department.
(f) In the case of a partnership or corporation, the existence of which has been terminated, if no receiver or trustee has been duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States, or if such a receiver or trustee has been discharged prior to the date of payment without having made an assignment, payment may be made to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto. In this circumstance, the person or persons claiming payment shall submit to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Hyattsville, MD 20782, such documentary evidence as is appropriate to show his or their right to the payment.
(g) In the case of an assignment of an award or any part thereof which is made in writing and duly acknowledged and filed after such award is certified to the Secretary of the Treasury, payment may in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury be made to the assignee as his interest may appear. No particular form of assignment is prescribed, but the original assignment must be submitted to, and will be retained by the Treasury Department.
[[31 FR 9418, July 9, 1966, as amended at 34 FR 1897, Feb. 8, 1969; 49 FR 47001, Nov. 30, 1984; 58 FR 4578, Jan. 15, 1993]]

§ 250.5   Manner of payment.

Payment will be made by check drawn on the United States Treasury. Checks will be mailed to the payee at the address indicated on the voucher application, unless subsequent to the issue of the voucher application the Treasury Department receives a written request from the payee to deliver the check to him at some other address. Where the award has been entered in favor of more than one person, only one check will be drawn in making payment unless the payees specify the share of each and request separate checks.
[[31 FR 9418, July 9, 1966]]

§ 250.6   Powers of attorney.

No power of attorney to sign a voucher application will be recognized but a power of attorney executed subsequent to the certification of an award to the Secretary of the Treasury to receive, endorse and collect a check given in payment on an award may be recognized. An appropriate form for such a power of attorney may be obtained from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Hyattsville, MD 20782.
[[31 FR 9418, July 9, 1966, as amended at 49 FR 47001, Nov. 30, 1984; 58 FR 4578, Jan. 15, 1993]]

§ 250.7   Additional evidence.

The Secretary of the Treasury or the Comptroller General of the United States may in any case require such additional information and evidence as may be deemed necessary.
[[31 FR 9418, July 9, 1966]]

PART 256—OBTAINING PAYMENTS FROM THE JUDGMENT FUND AND UNDER PRIVATE RELIEF BILLS

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 1304, 3728; 41 U.S.C. 612; 5 U.S.C. 2301 note.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 1304, 3728; 41 U.S.C. 612; 5 U.S.C. 2301 note.
[Source:71 FR 60849, Oct. 17, 2006, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
71 FR 60849, Oct. 17, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 256.0   What does this part cover?

This part applies to payments made by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) pursuant to the Judgment Fund statute, 31 U.S.C. 1304.

§ 256.1   What is Treasury's role in paying awards and settlements from the Judgment Fund?

(a) The Judgment Fund is a permanent, indefinite appropriation which is available to pay many judicially and administratively ordered monetary awards against the United States. In addition, amounts owed under compromise agreements negotiated by the U.S. Department of Justice in settlement of claims arising under actual or imminent litigation are normally paid from the Judgment Fund, if a judgment on the merits would be payable from the Judgment Fund. Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service) certifies payments from the Judgment Fund when the following four tests have been met:
(1) Awards or settlements are final;
(2) Awards or settlements are monetary;
(3) One of the authorities specified in 31 U.S.C. 1304(a)(3) provides for payment of the award or settlement; and
(4) Payment may not legally be made from any other source of funds.
(b) Additionally, Fiscal Service requires that requests for payment identify the statute that forms the basis of the underlying claim. The award or settlement must comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements that authorize the award or settlement. For example, interest is payable on Judgment Fund awards only if there is an express statutory provision, contractual agreement or constitutional waiver of sovereign immunity authorizing the assessment of interest against the United States. Also, a tort under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) is payable from the Judgment Fund only when the award amount exceeds $2,500 (for administrative awards) and is in compliance with the regulatory requirements at 28 CFR part 14.

§ 256.2   Where can I find more information about, and forms for, Judgment Fund payments?

Detailed information related to Judgment Fund payments, including copies of all forms, can be found in the Treasury Financial Manual (TFM), Volume I, Part 6, Chapter 3100. The TFM is available on the Judgment Fund Web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund. Contact information for the Judgment Fund Branch is also available on the Web site.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund.
Contact information for the Judgment Fund Branch is also available on the Web site.

Subpart B—Requesting Payments


§ 256.10   Who may request payment from the Judgment Fund?

(a) Court judgments and settlements of litigation. The Department of Justice must normally submit the request for payment from the Judgment Fund. Agencies that have independent litigating authority may submit a request for payment themselves if the Department of Justice is not responsible for the case.
Court judgments and settlements of litigation.
The Department of Justice must normally submit the request for payment from the Judgment Fund. Agencies that have independent litigating authority may submit a request for payment themselves if the Department of Justice is not responsible for the case.
(b) Administrative awards. The program agency that is authorized to approve the award must submit the request for payment.
Administrative awards.
The program agency that is authorized to approve the award must submit the request for payment.

§ 256.11   How do agencies request payments?

Agencies must submit requests for payments from the Judgment Fund on Fiscal Service's Judgment Fund payment request forms or by using other approved methods as provided for on the Judgment Fund Web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund. Fiscal Service provides forms and detailed information about Judgment Fund payments in the TFM, Volume I, Part 6, Chapter 3100. The TFM is also available on the Judgment Fund Web site. The submitting agency must complete and sign all required Judgment Fund forms and must attach all required supporting documents.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund.
Fiscal Service provides forms and detailed information about Judgment Fund payments in the TFM, Volume I, Part 6, Chapter 3100. The TFM is also available on the Judgment Fund Web site. The submitting agency must complete and sign all required Judgment Fund forms and must attach all required supporting documents.

§ 256.12   What supporting documentation must agencies submit to Fiscal Service when requesting a payment from the Judgment Fund?

(a) All payments. The submitting agency must submit a copy of the judgment or settlement agreement, as applicable, in addition to the request for payment from the Judgment Fund. The request for payment must be on the appropriate Judgment Fund payment request forms.
All payments.
The submitting agency must submit a copy of the judgment or settlement agreement, as applicable, in addition to the request for payment from the Judgment Fund. The request for payment must be on the appropriate Judgment Fund payment request forms.
(b) Awards to minors. For awards to claimants that are minors, the submitting agency must include in its submission to Fiscal Service documentation establishing that the payee, if different from the claimant, is legally authorized to act on behalf of the claimant. Documentation of court approvals (Federal, State, or foreign) that are legally required for payment must be submitted along with the request for payment from the Judgment Fund. State law typically specifies when money awards to minors require the appointment of a guardian. Agencies must list the appropriate controlling state law citation on the payment request forms.
Awards to minors.
For awards to claimants that are minors, the submitting agency must include in its submission to Fiscal Service documentation establishing that the payee, if different from the claimant, is legally authorized to act on behalf of the claimant. Documentation of court approvals (Federal, State, or foreign) that are legally required for payment must be submitted along with the request for payment from the Judgment Fund. State law typically specifies when money awards to minors require the appointment of a guardian. Agencies must list the appropriate controlling state law citation on the payment request forms.
(c) Awards of costs. For awards of costs, the submitting agency must include a copy of the “bill of costs” or the Court's order awarding costs. Only those items expressly enumerated under the cost statute, 28 U.S.C. 1920, or other governing statute specific to the award, are payable from the Judgment Fund.
Awards of costs.
For awards of costs, the submitting agency must include a copy of the “bill of costs” or the Court's order awarding costs. Only those items expressly enumerated under the cost statute, 28 U.S.C. 1920, or other governing statute specific to the award, are payable from the Judgment Fund.
(d) Payments to multiple claimants/payees in a single award. For awards where multiple payees are to receive separate payments, the submitting agency must complete separate Judgment Fund Vouchers for Payment for each payee. When there are multiple claimants in an administrative tort matter, each claimant's award must independently exceed the mandatory $2,500 threshold in order for payment to be made from the Judgment Fund. A claimant's threshold can be satisfied by combining amounts awarded for personal and property damage under the FTCA.
Payments to multiple claimants/payees in a single award.
For awards where multiple payees are to receive separate payments, the submitting agency must complete separate Judgment Fund Vouchers for Payment for each payee. When there are multiple claimants in an administrative tort matter, each claimant's award must independently exceed the mandatory $2,500 threshold in order for payment to be made from the Judgment Fund. A claimant's threshold can be satisfied by combining amounts awarded for personal and property damage under the FTCA.
(e) Awards of back pay. For awards of back pay where the judgment does not specifically state the principal amounts to be paid and withholdings to be made, the submitting agency must include a spreadsheet indicating precisely which amounts are allocable to net pay, deductions, and interest.
Awards of back pay.
For awards of back pay where the judgment does not specifically state the principal amounts to be paid and withholdings to be made, the submitting agency must include a spreadsheet indicating precisely which amounts are allocable to net pay, deductions, and interest.

§ 256.13   Are agencies required to supply a taxpayer identification number (TIN) when submitting a request for payment?

Yes, agencies must include a valid TIN on all requests for payments, unless the situation meets one of the exceptions listed in the Fiscal Service TIN Policy, which may be found on the Fiscal Service Web site at: http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/tinpolicy/regulations.html. For an individual, the TIN is the Social Security Number. For a business, the TIN is the Employer Identification Number issued by IRS. The TIN provided must be for the party entitled to the payment, whether or not that party is the payee. Failure to include a required TIN results in an incomplete request for payment.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/tinpolicy/regulations.html.
For an individual, the TIN is the Social Security Number. For a business, the TIN is the Employer Identification Number issued by IRS. The TIN provided must be for the party entitled to the payment, whether or not that party is the payee. Failure to include a required TIN results in an incomplete request for payment.

§ 256.14   What happens if I submit an incomplete request for payment?

Fiscal Service may return, without action, any request for payment that is incomplete. If a request for payment is returned for lack of necessary information, the submitting agency may resubmit the request for payment once all the required information is available.

Subpart C—Debt Collection


§ 256.20   How does an agency indicate that a debt is to be offset from a Judgment Fund payment?

The submitting agency must identify on the appropriate Judgment Fund form any known debt owed to the United States that Fiscal Service is expected to collect by setoff against the award. Such a debt will be offset pursuant to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3728.

§ 256.21   Are Judgment Fund payments offset to collect administrative debts?

Yes, separate and apart from its role as administrator of the Judgment Fund, Fiscal Service, in its capacity as disbursing official for the executive branch, offsets Judgment Fund payments to collect delinquent, nontax Federal debts through the Treasury Offset Program (TOP). This rule applies only to the setoff of Judgment Fund payments prior to payment certification, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3728, and not to disbursing official offsets pursuant to other authorities. (See 31 CFR 285.5 for requirements for disbursing official offset of past-due delinquent, nontax debts pursuant to the authority set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716.)

§ 256.22   How does Fiscal Service set off an award under 31 U.S.C. 3728?

The setoff statute establishes a two-step process to collect debts that are owed to the United States. If an agency notifies Fiscal Service of a debt for which a court has issued a judgment against a debtor in favor of the United States, or for which the IRS has issued a tax levy pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6331, then Fiscal Service will automatically set off the debt from the payment. If the debt owed to the United States has not been judicially determined, then Fiscal Service must notify the claimant of the debt and request the debtor's consent to a setoff. If the debtor consents, then Fiscal Service will set off the debt. If the debtor does not consent, then Fiscal Service will withhold from payment an amount equal to the debt. Fiscal Service also may withhold an amount sufficient to pay the cost of litigating the debt to judgment. Fiscal Service then will consult with the underlying agency and the Department of Justice regarding the necessity for a civil action to reduce the debt to judgment. If litigation proceeds and is successful, Fiscal Service will set off the debt. If the suit is unsuccessful, Fiscal Service will pay the withheld amount with interest accruing from the date when payment would have been made.

Subpart D—Interest and Litigation Costs


§ 256.30   When does the Judgment Fund pay interest?

Interest is paid when it is ordered in the judgment pursuant to a statutory, contractual or constitutional waiver of sovereign immunity. Such waivers may include interest as set forth under 41 U.S.C. 611 (Contract Disputes Act), 5 U.S.C. 5596 (Back Pay Act), or Title VII, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-16 (Civil Rights Act of 1991). In addition, post-judgment interest is paid on awards eligible for interest under 31 U.S.C. 1304(b) (unsuccessful appeal by the Government).

§ 256.31   How does Fiscal Service compute interest on payments?

Fiscal Service computes interest according to the terms of the statute that waives sovereign immunity for interest to be awarded against the Federal government. The statute that allows interest must be cited on the appropriate Judgment Fund form.

§ 256.32   What documentation must be submitted to the Judgment Fund Branch to preserve the right to seek interest under 31 U.S.C. 1304(b) in a case where the government has taken an appeal?

31 U.S.C. 1304(b) specifies that a “transcript of the judgment” must be filed with the Secretary of the Treasury. This means that a copy of the judgment must be filed with the Judgment Fund Branch for interest to accrue on a judgment of a federal district court, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or the United States Court of Federal Claims. By practice, the successful plaintiff files a copy of the judgment. Whoever submits the judgment should include a cover letter explaining that it is being submitted to preserve interest rights under 31 U.S.C. 1304. A copy of the judgment and cover letter must be sent to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Judgment Fund Branch, at the address indicated on the Judgment Fund Web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund.

§ 256.33   For what period of time is interest computed under 31 U.S.C. 1304(b)?

Interest is computed from the date that Fiscal Service receives the copy of the judgment until the date preceding the appellate court's affirmative ruling. If the United States files a Notice of Appeal which it later withdraws, interest is paid on the award through the date before the withdrawal of the Notice of Appeal.

§ 256.34   Does the Judgment Fund pay all litigation costs?

Fiscal Service certifies for payment only those costs that are enumerated in the cost statute, 28 U.S.C. 1920, or as set forth under a statute that specifically governs payment of the award.

Subpart E—Reimbursements to the Judgment Fund


§ 256.40   When must an agency reimburse the Judgment Fund?

Agencies are required to reimburse the Judgment Fund for payments made pursuant to the Contract Disputes Act (CDA), 41 U.S.C. 612, and payments made pursuant to the Notification and Federal Employees Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (No FEAR), 5 U.S.C. 2301 note. The TFM, available on the Judgment Fund Web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund, contains more information about how Fiscal Service bills agencies and collects such reimbursements.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund
, contains more information about how Fiscal Service bills agencies and collects such reimbursements.

§ 256.41   When is reimbursement due for CDA and No FEAR payments?

Reimbursement for a CDA or No FEAR payment should be made promptly upon notification from Fiscal Service of the amount due. If the agency is unable to timely reimburse Fiscal Service, the agency must contact Fiscal Service to establish a reimbursement plan. Under Office of Personnel Management (OPM) regulations, No FEAR reimbursements or payment reimbursement plans must be made within 45 days of the request for reimbursement. See 5 CFR part 724. Agencies that do not meet this requirement will be listed on Fiscal Service's public Web site.

Subpart F—Additional Provisions


§ 256.50   How does Fiscal Service process back pay awards?

The submitting agency may request one of two methods to process back pay awards.
(a) One method has three parts. The first part is a payment of net back pay (and interest if authorized), which is sent to the plaintiff or to the plaintiff's attorney, as directed by the submitting agency. The second part is a payment to the agency of deductions from the net back pay. The third part is a payment of attorney fees, which is sent directly to the attorney.
(b) Under the second method, Fiscal Service pays the entire back pay award to the agency out of whose actions the claim arose. The agency then issues amounts representing back pay (and interest if authorized) to the plaintiff and retains amounts representing deductions. Fiscal Service pays the attorney fees directly to the attorney.
[[71 FR 60849, Oct. 17, 2006; 71 FR 62050, Oct. 20, 2006]]

§ 256.51   Does Fiscal Service report Judgment Fund payments to the IRS as income to the payee on IRS Form 1099?

No, Fiscal Service does not report Judgment Fund payments as potential taxable income to the IRS. Fiscal Service does not have sufficient information about the payment to determine if a Form 1099 must be issued or to prepare such a form when required. To the extent any Form 1099 needs to be issued, it is the responsibility of the agency submitting the payment request to do so.

§ 256.52   How does Fiscal Service issue a payment?

Pursuant to 31 CFR part 208, Judgment Fund payments are to be made by electronic funds transfer (EFT). Fiscal Service will issue an electronic payment to the payee's account as specified on the appropriate Judgment Fund form. If a submitting agency determines that a waiver (in accordance with 31 CFR part 208) to the requirement for payment by EFT is appropriate, Fiscal Service will issue a payment by check. The Voucher for Payment must direct payment to the payee designated in the judgment or settlement agreement.

§ 256.53   How does the submitting agency know when payment is made?

Fiscal Service will e-mail the agency contact when payment is disbursed, if the agency contact has provided an email address on the appropriate Judgment Fund form. Also, Fiscal Service maintains an on-line payment status system that the submitting agency can access to determine the status of a payment. The payment reporting system can be accessed from the Judgment Fund Web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/judgefund.

§ 256.54   What happens if Fiscal Service denies a request for payment?

Fiscal Service must deny any request for payment that fails to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 1304. The submitting agency may request reconsideration of a payment denial. The submitting agency must provide an explanation of how the request for payment meets the four tests contained in section 256.1 of this part. If applicable, requests for reconsideration must contain a reference to the agency's program authority and include specific funding provisions that pertain to the program activity that resulted in the claim. If, upon reconsideration, Fiscal Service determines that payment from the Judgment Fund is appropriate, and the agency has already made payment to the plaintiff or claimant, Fiscal Service will reimburse the agency from the Judgment Fund.

Subpart G—Private Relief Bills


§ 256.60   How do I get paid for a Private Relief Bill?

You may apply for payment by sending a request letter along with supporting documentation, to include a copy of the private relief act and proof of your identity, to the address specified on the Fiscal Service Web site at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/privaterelief.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/privaterelief.

PART 270 [RESERVED]


PART 281—FOREIGN EXCHANGE OPERATIONS

[Authority:Sec. 114, 64 Stat. 836, sec. 613, 75 Stat. 443; 31 U.S.C. 66b, 22 U.S.C. 2363, E.O. 10488, 18 FR 5699, 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 972, E.O. 10900, 26 FR 143, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 429.]
Authority:
Sec. 114, 64 Stat. 836, sec. 613, 75 Stat. 443; 31 U.S.C. 66b, 22 U.S.C. 2363, E.O. 10488, 18 FR 5699, 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 972, E.O. 10900, 26 FR 143, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 429.
[Source:26 FR 10054, Oct. 26, 1961, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
26 FR 10054, Oct. 26, 1961, unless otherwise noted.

§ 281.1   Authority.

By virtue of the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury by section 114 of the Budget and Accounting Procedures Act of 1950, 64 Stat. 836, 31 U.S.C. 66b; section 613 of the Act of September 4, 1961, 75 Stat. 443; Executive Order No. 10488, 18 FR 5699, 3 CFR 1949-1953 Comp.; and Executive Order No. 10900, 26 FR 143, the following regulations are prescribed for administration of the purchase custody, deposit, transfer, sale and reporting of foreign exchange (including credits and currencies) by executive departments and agencies (hereinafter referred to as agencies).

§ 281.2   [Reserved]


§ 281.3   Collections.

Foreign exchange collected by agencies shall be delivered promptly into the custody of accountable officers for credit to accounts of the Secretary of the Treasury (hereinafter referred to as the Secretary) unless otherwise directed by the Secretary. The term “collections,” for the purpose of these regulations in this part, does not include foreign exchange acquired by the United States by purchase with dollars. The accountable officer shall maintain records, showing the collections, by source, and indicating the miscellaneous receipt accounts or other accounts in the Treasury to be credited with dollar proceeds from sale of the foreign exchange, and such further classifications as may be needed to indicate exchange which can be used only for restricted purposes. Accountable officers shall be advised by the collecting agencies of the source of collections and any restrictions on the use of the foreign exchange in order that the foregoing records may be maintained.

§ 281.4   Guaranty funds.

The regulations in this part are applicable to all foreign exchange acquired by the United States under guaranty provisions of section 1011 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1442), except that receipts of such foreign exchange shall be deposited in the foreign exchange accounts of the United States Treasury referred to in § 281.5(c).

§ 281.5   Depositaries.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, foreign exchange which is held by accountable officers for account of the Secretary and foreign exchange acquired by accountable officers by purchase or otherwise, which is not immediately disbursed but is held by such officers for their own account or for the account of any agency, shall be maintained only in depositaries designated by the Secretary. Unless otherwise directed by the Secretary, accountable officers are not required to have separate depositary accounts for foreign exchange held for the Secretary's account.
(b) Accountable officers may carry foreign exchange as cash outside depositaries only pursuant to authority granted in accordance with Treasury Department Circular No. 1030 dated July 24, 1959, as amended.
(c) Deposits in and withdrawals from foreign exchange accounts maintained with depositaries in the name of the United States Treasury will be made only as directed by the Secretary.

§ 281.6   Withdrawals from Treasury accounts.

Foreign exchange shall be withdrawn from accounts of the Secretary on the books of accountable officers or from the foreign exchange accounts carried with depositaries in the name of the United States Treasury, only for the purpose of sale for dollars or transfer to agencies for authorized purposes, without reimbursement to the Treasury, as provided by or pursuant to law. Such transfers, as well as transfers between foreign exchange accounts of the Secretary and between foreign exchange accounts in the name of the United States Treasury, shall be made only by direction of the Secretary. An agency requiring foreign exchange from the Treasury Department shall make request of the Secretary, indicating the amount of exchange required, in units of foreign currency, and the name and location of the accountable officer to receive the exchange. To the extent practicable and desirable, standing authorizations will be given for withdrawals from accounts of the Secretary. The following conditions apply to the sale of foreign exchange and to the requisition of foreign exchange without dollar payment:
(a) Sales. With respect to the sale of foreign exchange held in accounts of the Secretary, the payment in dollars shall be calculated at the rate of exchange that would otherwise be available to the United States for the acquisition of the foreign exchange for its official disbursements unless otherwise determined by the Treasury Department in consultation with the agencies concerned. When the rate that would otherwise be available to the United States is not readily ascertainable, the Treasury Department shall be consulted. The dollar proceeds realized from the sale of exchange shall be credited to the appropriate receipt, appropriation or refund account on the books of the Treasury. The dollar payment for foreign exchange purchased shall not be charged as an appropriation expenditure until the foreign exchange is disbursed.
Sales.
With respect to the sale of foreign exchange held in accounts of the Secretary, the payment in dollars shall be calculated at the rate of exchange that would otherwise be available to the United States for the acquisition of the foreign exchange for its official disbursements unless otherwise determined by the Treasury Department in consultation with the agencies concerned. When the rate that would otherwise be available to the United States is not readily ascertainable, the Treasury Department shall be consulted. The dollar proceeds realized from the sale of exchange shall be credited to the appropriate receipt, appropriation or refund account on the books of the Treasury. The dollar payment for foreign exchange purchased shall not be charged as an appropriation expenditure until the foreign exchange is disbursed.
(b) Transfers without reimbursement. When foreign exchange is to be obtained from the Treasury Department without payment of dollars, the agency concerned shall furnish written certification that the exchange may be used without reimbursement to the Treasury, citing the relevant legal authority. In cases where international agreements or Bureau of the Budget allocations specify the programs for which foreign exchange may be used, the Secretary may transfer exchange to agencies without requiring a certification.
Transfers without reimbursement.
When foreign exchange is to be obtained from the Treasury Department without payment of dollars, the agency concerned shall furnish written certification that the exchange may be used without reimbursement to the Treasury, citing the relevant legal authority. In cases where international agreements or Bureau of the Budget allocations specify the programs for which foreign exchange may be used, the Secretary may transfer exchange to agencies without requiring a certification.
[[26 FR 10054, Oct. 26, 1961, as amended at 29 FR 11497, Aug. 11, 1964]]

§ 281.7   Limitations.

The following limitations apply to the purchase and holding of foreign exchange:
(a) Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, no agency or accountable officer shall purchase, or direct the purchase of, foreign exchange from any source outside the Government of the United States, except when exchange for the purpose intended is not available for purchase from within the Government.
(b) All foreign exchange acquired by agencies by transfer from the Treasury Department, without payment of dollars, for the purpose of making authorized expenditures, shall be placed with accountable officers for account of the agencies concerned.
(c) Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, no accountable officer shall purchase foreign exchange which, together with the balance on hand at the time of purchase, would exceed estimated requirements for a thirty-day period.
(d) To the maximum extent possible, foreign exchange accounts which are earmarked for specific programs shall be maintained on an unfunded basis. Each agency responsible for administering international agreements pertaining to the use of foreign exchange held in funded accounts shall review the agreement and other considerations relevant to each such account at least annually to determine if the account can be placed on an unfunded basis, and shall initiate appropriate action to accomplish the objective of minimizing the number of funded program accounts and the amounts therein. The resulting determinations and the status of actions undertaken shall be furnished in writing to the Treasury Department within 60 days from the date of this regulation and each time thereafter that there is a change of status of a particular account, or as requested by the Treasury Department. Exchange which becomes eligible for removal from a funded status either as a result of the foregoing determinations, or because of the expiration of the period of availability for restricted use under the terms of international agreements, or for other reasons, shall be released promptly by the program agency for transfer to a nonrestricted Treasury sales account.
[[26 FR 10054, Oct. 26, 1961, as amended at 29 FR 11497, Aug. 11, 1964]]

§ 281.8   Reporting and accounting.

The Treasury Department will maintain a system of central accounting and reporting for the purpose of providing information on foreign exchange operations to the President, the Congress, and the public. The Treasury Department will also prescribe rules to enhance consistency in reporting of foreign exchange operations by all agencies. Agencies shall furnish such reports and information as may be required for the administration of the provisions of this circular.

§ 281.9   General provisions.

(a) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed as having the effect of superseding or amending the provisions of any regulations issued or approved by the Secretary pursuant to the Act of December 23, 1944, as amended (67 Stat. 61).
(b) The Secretary may waive, withdraw, or amend at any time or from time to time any or all of the provisions of the regulations of this part.
(c) Implementing regulations within the framework of this circular will be issued by the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. All communications pertaining to the administration of the provisions of this part shall be directed to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary.

PART 285—DEBT COLLECTION AUTHORITIES UNDER THE DEBT COLLECTION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1996

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 5514; 26 U.S.C. 6402; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3701, 3711, 3716, 3719, 3720A, 3720B, 3720D; 42 U.S.C. 664; E.O. 13019, 61 FR 51763, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 216.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514; 26 U.S.C. 6402; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3701, 3711, 3716, 3719, 3720A, 3720B, 3720D; 42 U.S.C. 664; E.O. 13019, 61 FR 51763, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 216.
[Source:62 FR 34179, June 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
62 FR 34179, June 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Disbursing Official Offset


§ 285.1   Collection of past-due support by administrative offset.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Administrative offset means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt.
Administrative offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt.
Debt as used in this section is synonymous with the term past-due support.
Debt
as used in this section is synonymous with the term past-due support.
Disbursing official includes an official who has authority to disburse public money pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another Federal law.
Disbursing official
includes an official who has authority to disburse public money pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another Federal law.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury. Fiscal Service is the designee of the Secretary of the Treasury for all matters concerning this section, unless otherwise specified.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury. Fiscal Service is the designee of the Secretary of the Treasury for all matters concerning this section, unless otherwise specified.
HHS means the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Child Support Enforcement.
HHS
means the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Child Support Enforcement.
Past-due support means the amount of support determined under a court order, or an order of an administrative procedure established under State law, for support and maintenance of a child, or of a child and the parent with whom the child is living, which has not been paid. The term child as used in this definition is not limited to minor children.
Past-due support
means the amount of support determined under a court order, or an order of an administrative procedure established under State law, for support and maintenance of a child, or of a child and the parent with whom the child is living, which has not been paid. The term child as used in this definition is not limited to minor children.
Past-due support being enforced by the State means there has been an assignment of the support rights to the State, or the State making the request for offset is providing services to individuals pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 654(5) (section 454(5) of the Social Security Act), or the State is enforcing support pursuant to a cooperative agreement with or by an Indian tribal government.
Past-due support being enforced by the State
means there has been an assignment of the support rights to the State, or the State making the request for offset is providing services to individuals pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 654(5) (section 454(5) of the Social Security Act), or the State is enforcing support pursuant to a cooperative agreement with or by an Indian tribal government.
State means the several States of the United States. The term State also includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State
means the several States of the United States. The term State also includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) General rule. Fiscal Service may enter into a reciprocal agreement with a State for the collection of past-due support being enforced by the State by administrative offset from certain Federal payments. Upon notification of past-due support either directly from a State which has entered into such an agreement or from HHS, disbursing officials of Fiscal Service or any other disbursing official of the United States shall offset Federal payments which are subject to offset under this section, to collect past-due support. The amount offset, minus the offset fee, shall be forwarded to the State to be distributed in accordance with applicable laws and procedures.
General rule.
Fiscal Service may enter into a reciprocal agreement with a State for the collection of past-due support being enforced by the State by administrative offset from certain Federal payments. Upon notification of past-due support either directly from a State which has entered into such an agreement or from HHS, disbursing officials of Fiscal Service or any other disbursing official of the United States shall offset Federal payments which are subject to offset under this section, to collect past-due support. The amount offset, minus the offset fee, shall be forwarded to the State to be distributed in accordance with applicable laws and procedures.
(c) Agreements. Fiscal Service may enter into reciprocal agreements with States for disbursing officials of Fiscal Service and any other Federal disbursing official to offset certain Federal payments to collect past-due support being enforced by the State. The agreement shall contain any requirements which Fiscal Service considers appropriate to facilitate the offset and prevent duplicative efforts and shall require States to prescribe procedures governing the collection of past-due support by Federal administrative offset. For purposes of this section, reciprocal means of mutual benefit. An agreement between Fiscal Service and a State to collect past-due support by offsetting Federal payments will be considered of mutual benefit and it is not required that States conduct administrative offsets to collect debts owed to the Federal Government. States which have entered into an agreement with Fiscal Service pursuant to this section may thereafter request, in the manner prescribed herein, that an offset be performed. Such requests shall be made by the appropriate State disbursing official which, for purposes of this section, means an appropriate official of the State agency which administers or supervises the administration of the State plan under Title IV-D of the Social Security Act.
Agreements.
Fiscal Service may enter into reciprocal agreements with States for disbursing officials of Fiscal Service and any other Federal disbursing official to offset certain Federal payments to collect past-due support being enforced by the State. The agreement shall contain any requirements which Fiscal Service considers appropriate to facilitate the offset and prevent duplicative efforts and shall require States to prescribe procedures governing the collection of past-due support by Federal administrative offset. For purposes of this section, reciprocal means of mutual benefit. An agreement between Fiscal Service and a State to collect past-due support by offsetting Federal payments will be considered of mutual benefit and it is not required that States conduct administrative offsets to collect debts owed to the Federal Government. States which have entered into an agreement with Fiscal Service pursuant to this section may thereafter request, in the manner prescribed herein, that an offset be performed. Such requests shall be made by the appropriate State disbursing official which, for purposes of this section, means an appropriate official of the State agency which administers or supervises the administration of the State plan under Title IV-D of the Social Security Act.
(d) Notification to Fiscal Service of past-due support. (1) States notifying Fiscal Service of past-due support must do so in the manner and format prescribed by Fiscal Service. States notifying HHS of past-due support must do so in the manner and format prescribed by HHS. HHS shall notify Fiscal Service of all past-due support referred to HHS by States for collection by administrative offset provided that the requirements of paragraphs (d)(3) and (h) of this section have been met.
Notification to Fiscal Service of past-due support.
(1) States notifying Fiscal Service of past-due support must do so in the manner and format prescribed by Fiscal Service. States notifying HHS of past-due support must do so in the manner and format prescribed by HHS. HHS shall notify Fiscal Service of all past-due support referred to HHS by States for collection by administrative offset provided that the requirements of paragraphs (d)(3) and (h) of this section have been met.
(2) When a State has knowledge that past-due support is being enforced by more than one State, the State notifying Fiscal Service or HHS of the past-due support must inform any other State involved in enforcing the past-due support when it refers the debt for offset and when it receives the offset amount.
(3) The notification of past-due support must be accompanied by a certification that the debt is past-due, legally enforceable, and that the State has complied with all the requirements as set forth in paragraph (h) of this section and with any requirements imposed by State law or procedure. For debts so certified, the Secretary may waive sections 552a (o) and (p) of Title 5, United States Code, where applicable, in accordance with the Secretary's authority under 31 U.S.C. 3716(f).
(4) Fiscal Service may reject a notification of past-due support which does not comply with the requirements of this section. The State will be notified of the rejection along with the reason for the rejection.
(e) Minimum amount of past-due support. Fiscal Service will reject a notification of past-due support where the past-due support owed is less than $25.00. This amount may be adjusted from time to time by Fiscal Service to ensure that the cost of collection does not exceed the debt.
Minimum amount of past-due support.
Fiscal Service will reject a notification of past-due support where the past-due support owed is less than $25.00. This amount may be adjusted from time to time by Fiscal Service to ensure that the cost of collection does not exceed the debt.
(f) Limitations. Debts properly submitted to Fiscal Service for administrative offset will remain subject to collection by administrative offset until withdrawn by the State provided the debt remains past-due and legally enforceable.
Limitations.
Debts properly submitted to Fiscal Service for administrative offset will remain subject to collection by administrative offset until withdrawn by the State provided the debt remains past-due and legally enforceable.
(g) Notification of changes in status of debt. The State notifying Fiscal Service or HHS of past-due support shall, in the manner and in the time frames provided by Fiscal Service or HHS, notify Fiscal Service or HHS of deletions or decreases in the amount of a debt referred for collection by administrative offset. The State may notify Fiscal Service or HHS of any increases in the amount of a debt referred for collection by administrative offset provided the State has complied with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section with regard to those amounts.
Notification of changes in status of debt.
The State notifying Fiscal Service or HHS of past-due support shall, in the manner and in the time frames provided by Fiscal Service or HHS, notify Fiscal Service or HHS of deletions or decreases in the amount of a debt referred for collection by administrative offset. The State may notify Fiscal Service or HHS of any increases in the amount of a debt referred for collection by administrative offset provided the State has complied with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section with regard to those amounts.
(h) Advance notification of intent to collect by administrative offset. (1) The State, or Fiscal Service or HHS on behalf of the State, if the State requests and Fiscal Service or HHS agrees, shall send a written notification, at least 30 days in advance of referral of the debt for offset, to the individual owing past-due support, informing the individual that the State intends to refer the debt for collection by administrative offset against Federal payments. The notice must also inform the individual of:
Advance notification of intent to collect by administrative offset.
(1) The State, or Fiscal Service or HHS on behalf of the State, if the State requests and Fiscal Service or HHS agrees, shall send a written notification, at least 30 days in advance of referral of the debt for offset, to the individual owing past-due support, informing the individual that the State intends to refer the debt for collection by administrative offset against Federal payments. The notice must also inform the individual of:
(i) The nature and amount of the debt; and
(ii) The right to an administrative review by the State referring the debt or, upon the request of the individual, by the State with the order upon which the referral was based, of the determination of the State with respect to the debt and of the procedures and time frames established by the State for such reviews.
(2) Prior to referring a debt to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset, States must provide individuals with a reasonable opportunity to exercise the rights enumerated in paragraph (h)(1) of this section in accordance with procedures prescribed by the State.
(i) Payments subject to offset. Federal payments subject to offset under this section include all Federal payments except:
Payments subject to offset.
Federal payments subject to offset under this section include all Federal payments except:
(1) Payments due to an individual under
(i) Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965;
(ii) The Social Security Act;
(iii) Part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act;
(iv) Any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board;
(2) Payments which the Secretary determines are exempt from offset in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section;
(3) Payments from which collection of past-due support by administrative offset is expressly prohibited by law;
(4) Payments made under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (except that tax refund payments are subject to offset under separate authority); and
(5) Payments made under the tariff laws of the United States.
(j) Special provisions applicable to Federal salary payments. (1) Unless a lower maximum offset limitation is provided by applicable State law, the maximum part of a Federal salary payment per pay period subject to offset to collect past-due support shall not exceed those amounts set forth at section 1673(b)(2) (A) and (B) of Title 15, United States Code, as follows:
Special provisions applicable to Federal salary payments.
(1) Unless a lower maximum offset limitation is provided by applicable State law, the maximum part of a Federal salary payment per pay period subject to offset to collect past-due support shall not exceed those amounts set forth at section 1673(b)(2) (A) and (B) of Title 15, United States Code, as follows:
(i) Fifty (50%) percent of the debtor's aggregate disposable earnings for any pay period, where the debtor asserts by affidavit, or by other acceptable evidence, that he/she is supporting a spouse and/or dependent child, other than the former spouse and/or child for whom support is being collected, except that an additional five (5%) percent will apply if it appears that such earnings are to enforce past-due support for a period which is twelve (12) weeks or more prior to the pay period to which the offset applies. A debtor shall be considered to be supporting a spouse and/or dependent child only if the debtor provides over half of the spouse's and/or dependent child's support.
(ii) Sixty (60%) percent of the debtor's aggregate disposable earnings for any pay period where the debtor fails to assert by affidavit or establish by other acceptable evidence that he/she is supporting a spouse and/or dependent child, other than a former spouse and/or child for whom support is being collected, except that an additional five (5%) percent will apply if it appears that such earnings are to enforce past-due support for a period which is twelve (12) weeks or more prior to the pay period to which the offset applies.
(2) The maximum allowable offset amount shall be reduced by the amount of any deductions in pay resulting from a garnishment order for support. Nothing in this rule is intended to alter rules applicable to processing garnishment orders for child support and/or alimony.
(3) Federal salary payments subject to offset for the collection of past-due support include current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retainer pay, overtime, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay. Aggregate disposable earnings for purposes of determining the maximum amounts which may be offset under paragraph (j)(1) of this section is Federal salary pay remaining after the deduction of:
(i) Any amount required by law to be withheld;
(ii) Amounts properly withheld for Federal, State or local income tax purposes;
(iii) Amounts deducted as health insurance premiums;
(iv) Amounts deducted as normal retirement contributions, not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage; and
(v) Amounts deducted as normal life insurance premiums not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage.
(4) At least 30 days in advance of offset, the disbursing official shall send written notice to the debtor of the maximum offset limitations described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section. The notice shall include a request that the debtor submit supporting affidavits or other documentation necessary to determine the applicable offset percentage limitation. The notice shall also inform the debtor of the percentage that will be deducted if he/she fails to submit the requested documentation.
(5) At the time the past-due support debt is submitted for offset, the State shall advise Fiscal Service or HHS if the maximum amount of a Federal salary payment that may be offset is less than the amount described under this paragraph.
(k) Payments exempt from administrative offset to collect past-due support being enforced by a State. The Secretary will exempt from administrative offset under this part payments made under means-tested programs when requested by the head of the Federal agency which administers the program. For purposes of this section, means-tested programs are programs for which eligibility is based on a determination that income and/or assets of the beneficiary are inadequate to provide the beneficiary with an adequate standard of living without program assistance. The Secretary may exempt from administrative offset under this section any other class or type of payment upon the written request of the head of the agency which authorizes the payments. In determining whether or not to grant such exemptions, the Secretary shall give due consideration to whether administrative offset would tend to interfere substantially with or defeat the purposes of the payment agency's program.
Payments exempt from administrative offset to collect past-due support being enforced by a State.
The Secretary will exempt from administrative offset under this part payments made under means-tested programs when requested by the head of the Federal agency which administers the program. For purposes of this section, means-tested programs are programs for which eligibility is based on a determination that income and/or assets of the beneficiary are inadequate to provide the beneficiary with an adequate standard of living without program assistance. The Secretary may exempt from administrative offset under this section any other class or type of payment upon the written request of the head of the agency which authorizes the payments. In determining whether or not to grant such exemptions, the Secretary shall give due consideration to whether administrative offset would tend to interfere substantially with or defeat the purposes of the payment agency's program.
(l) Fees. A fee which Fiscal Service has determined to be sufficient to reimburse Fiscal Service for the full cost of the offset procedure, shall be deducted from each offset amount. Fiscal Service will notify the States, annually and in advance, of the amount of the fee to be charged for each offset.
Fees.
A fee which Fiscal Service has determined to be sufficient to reimburse Fiscal Service for the full cost of the offset procedure, shall be deducted from each offset amount. Fiscal Service will notify the States, annually and in advance, of the amount of the fee to be charged for each offset.
(m) Offsetting payments—(1) Conducting the offset. Disbursing officials of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, or any other Government corporation, any disbursing official of the United States designated by the Secretary, or any disbursing official of an executive department or agency that disburses Federal payments shall offset payments subject to offset under this section to satisfy, in whole or part, a debt owed by the payee. Disbursing officials shall compare payment certification records with records of debts submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number and name control of a payment record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name control of a debt record. The taxpayer identifying number for an individual is the individual's social security number. When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset have been met, the disbursing official shall offset the payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the debt. Any amounts not offset shall be paid to the payee. The amount that can be offset from a single payment is the lesser of the amount of the debt (including interest, penalties, and administrative costs); the amount of the payment; or the amount of the payment available for offset if a statute or regulation prohibits offset of the entire amount. Debts remain subject to collection by offset until paid in full.
Offsetting payments
—(1)
Conducting the offset.
Disbursing officials of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, or any other Government corporation, any disbursing official of the United States designated by the Secretary, or any disbursing official of an executive department or agency that disburses Federal payments shall offset payments subject to offset under this section to satisfy, in whole or part, a debt owed by the payee. Disbursing officials shall compare payment certification records with records of debts submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number and name control of a payment record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name control of a debt record. The taxpayer identifying number for an individual is the individual's social security number. When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset have been met, the disbursing official shall offset the payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the debt. Any amounts not offset shall be paid to the payee. The amount that can be offset from a single payment is the lesser of the amount of the debt (including interest, penalties, and administrative costs); the amount of the payment; or the amount of the payment available for offset if a statute or regulation prohibits offset of the entire amount. Debts remain subject to collection by offset until paid in full.
(2) Disposition of amounts collected. Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (l) of this section, to HHS or to the appropriate State. If Fiscal Service learns that an erroneous offset payment has been made to HHS or any State, Fiscal Service will notify HHS or the appropriate State that an erroneous offset payment has been made. Fiscal Service may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from amounts payable to HHS or the State, as the case may be. Alternatively, upon Fiscal Service' request, the State shall return promptly to the affected payee or Fiscal Service an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (unless the State previously has paid such amounts, or any portion of such amounts, to the affected payee). HHS and States shall notify Fiscal Service any time HHS or a State returns an erroneous offset payment to an affected payee. Fiscal Service and HHS, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
Disposition of amounts collected.
Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (l) of this section, to HHS or to the appropriate State. If Fiscal Service learns that an erroneous offset payment has been made to HHS or any State, Fiscal Service will notify HHS or the appropriate State that an erroneous offset payment has been made. Fiscal Service may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from amounts payable to HHS or the State, as the case may be. Alternatively, upon Fiscal Service' request, the State shall return promptly to the affected payee or Fiscal Service an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (unless the State previously has paid such amounts, or any portion of such amounts, to the affected payee). HHS and States shall notify Fiscal Service any time HHS or a State returns an erroneous offset payment to an affected payee. Fiscal Service and HHS, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
(n) Administrative offset priorities. (1) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall take precedence over deductions under this section.
Administrative offset priorities.
(1) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall take precedence over deductions under this section.
(2) Offsets will be applied first to past-due support being enforced by the State before any other offsets under this part.
(o) Notification of offset. (1) Disbursing officials of Fiscal Service or any other disbursing official which conducts an offset will notify the payee in writing of the occurrence of the offset to satisfy past-due support. The notice shall inform the payee of the type and amount of the payment that was offset; the identity of the State which requested the offset; and a contact point within the State that will handle concerns regarding the offset. Disbursing officials shall not be liable for failure to provide this notice.
Notification of offset.
(1) Disbursing officials of Fiscal Service or any other disbursing official which conducts an offset will notify the payee in writing of the occurrence of the offset to satisfy past-due support. The notice shall inform the payee of the type and amount of the payment that was offset; the identity of the State which requested the offset; and a contact point within the State that will handle concerns regarding the offset. Disbursing officials shall not be liable for failure to provide this notice.
(2) Disbursing officials of Fiscal Service or any other disbursing official which conducts an offset under this section will share with HHS, upon request by the Secretary of HHS, information contained in payment certification records of persons who are delinquent in child support obligations that would assist in the collection of such debts. When no offset is conducted, disbursing officials of Fiscal Service or any other disbursing official, will provide such information to HHS to the extent such information is available from offset activities conducted by Fiscal Service and other disbursing officials.
(p) Liability of disbursing officials and payment agencies. Neither the disbursing official nor the agency authorizing the payment shall be liable for the amount of the administrative offset on the basis that the underlying obligation, represented by the payment before the administrative offset was taken, was not satisfied. Disbursing officials will notify the agency authorizing the payment that the offset has occurred so that the agency authorizing the payment may direct any inquiries concerning the offset to the appropriate State.
Liability of disbursing officials and payment agencies.
Neither the disbursing official nor the agency authorizing the payment shall be liable for the amount of the administrative offset on the basis that the underlying obligation, represented by the payment before the administrative offset was taken, was not satisfied. Disbursing officials will notify the agency authorizing the payment that the offset has occurred so that the agency authorizing the payment may direct any inquiries concerning the offset to the appropriate State.
(q) Social Security numbers. Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer administrative offset, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
Social Security numbers.
Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer administrative offset, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
(1) In interoffice and interagency communications;
(2) In notices, including notices to the debtor or payee that an offset has or will occur, when the Social Security number is (or is embedded in) a creditor agency's account number, debt identification number, or debtor identification number;
(3) In response to a request of a debtor or a debtor's representative for records of Fiscal Service's offset activities; and
(4) When required by law.
[[62 FR 36210, July 7, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 46145, Aug. 28, 1998; 74 FR 27433, June 10, 2009; 87 FR 50248, Aug. 16, 2022]]

§ 285.2   Offset of tax refund payments to collect past-due, legally enforceable nontax debt.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Creditor agency means a Federal agency owed a claim that seeks to collect that claim through tax refund offset.
Creditor agency
means a Federal agency owed a claim that seeks to collect that claim through tax refund offset.
Debt or claim refers to an amount of money, funds, or property which has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of this section, the terms “claim” and “debt” are synonymous and interchangeable and includes debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government.
Debt
or
claim
refers to an amount of money, funds, or property which has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of this section, the terms “claim” and “debt” are synonymous and interchangeable and includes debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government.
Debtor means a person who owes a debt or claim. The term “person” includes any individual, organization or entity, except another Federal agency.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt or claim. The term “person” includes any individual, organization or entity, except another Federal agency.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
IRS means the Internal Revenue Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
IRS
means the Internal Revenue Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Tax refund offset means withholding or reducing a tax refund payment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s) of a tax refund payment.
Tax refund offset
means withholding or reducing a tax refund payment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s) of a tax refund payment.
Tax refund payment means any overpayment of Federal taxes to be refunded to the person making the overpayment after the IRS makes the appropriate credits as provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402(a) and 26 CFR 6402-3(a)(6)(i) for any liabilities for any tax on the part of the person who made the overpayment.
Tax refund payment
means any overpayment of Federal taxes to be refunded to the person making the overpayment after the IRS makes the appropriate credits as provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402(a) and 26 CFR 6402-3(a)(6)(i) for any liabilities for any tax on the part of the person who made the overpayment.
(b) General rule. (1) A Federal agency (as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6402(g)) that is owed by a person a past-due, legally enforceable nontax debt shall notify Fiscal Service of the amount of such debt for collection by tax refund offset. However, any agency subject to section 9 of the Act of May 18, 1933 (16 U.S.C. 831h) owed such a debt may, but is not required to, notify Fiscal Service of the amount of such debt for collection by tax refund offset.
General rule.
(1) A Federal agency (as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6402(g)) that is owed by a person a past-due, legally enforceable nontax debt shall notify Fiscal Service of the amount of such debt for collection by tax refund offset. However, any agency subject to section 9 of the Act of May 18, 1933 (16 U.S.C. 831h) owed such a debt may, but is not required to, notify Fiscal Service of the amount of such debt for collection by tax refund offset.
(2) Fiscal Service will compare tax refund payment records, as certified by the IRS, with records of debts submitted to Fiscal Service. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number (as that term is used in 26 U.S.C. 6109) and name (or derivation of the name, known as a “name control”) of a payment certification record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name control of a debtor record. When a match occurs and all other requirements for tax refund offset have been met, Fiscal Service will reduce the amount of any tax refund payment payable to a debtor by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed by the debtor. Any amounts not offset will be paid to the payee(s) listed in the payment certification record.
(3) This section does not apply to any debt or claim arising under the Internal Revenue Code.
(4)(i) This section applies to Federal Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance (OASDI) overpayments provided the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3720A(f)(1) and (2) are met with respect to such overpayments.
(ii) For purposes of this section, OASDI overpayment means any overpayment of benefits made to an individual under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.).
OASDI overpayment
means any overpayment of benefits made to an individual under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
).
(5) A creditor agency is not precluded from using debt collection procedures, such as wage garnishment, to collect debts that have been submitted to Fiscal Service for purposes of offset under this part. Such debt collection procedures may be used separately or in conjunction with offset collection procedures.
(c) Regulations. Prior to submitting debts to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset, Federal agencies shall promulgate temporary or final regulations under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 31 U.S.C. 3720A, governing the agencies' authority to collect debts by administrative offset, in general, and offset of tax refund payments, in particular.
Regulations.
Prior to submitting debts to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset, Federal agencies shall promulgate temporary or final regulations under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 31 U.S.C. 3720A, governing the agencies' authority to collect debts by administrative offset, in general, and offset of tax refund payments, in particular.
(d) Agency certification and referral of debt—(1) Past-due, legally enforceable debt eligible for tax refund offset. For purposes of this section, when a Federal agency refers a past-due, legally enforceable debt to Fiscal Service for tax refund offset, the agency will certify to Fiscal Service that:
Agency certification and referral of debt
—(1)
Past-due, legally enforceable debt eligible for tax refund offset.
For purposes of this section, when a Federal agency refers a past-due, legally enforceable debt to Fiscal Service for tax refund offset, the agency will certify to Fiscal Service that:
(i) The debt is past-due and legally enforceable in the amount submitted to Fiscal Service and that the agency will ensure that collections are properly credited to the debt;
(ii) The creditor agency has made reasonable efforts to obtain payment of the debt in that the agency has:
(A) Submitted the debt to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset and complied with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and related regulations, to the extent that collection of the debt by administrative offset is not prohibited by statute;
(B) Notified, or has made a reasonable attempt to notify, the debtor that the debt is past-due, and unless repaid within 60 days after the date of the notice, will be referred to Fiscal Service for tax refund offset;
(C) Given the debtor at least 60 days to present evidence that all or part of the debt is not past-due or legally enforceable, considered any evidence presented by the debtor, and determined that the debt is past-due and legally enforceable; and
(D) Provided the debtor with an opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the amount of the debt;
(iii) The debt is at least $25; and
(iv) In the case of an OASDI overpayment—
(A) The individual is not currently entitled to monthly insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(B) The notice describes conditions under which the Commissioner of Social Security is required to waive recovery of the overpayment, as provided under 42 U.S.C. 404(b); and
(C) If the debtor files a request for a waiver under 42 U.S.C. 404(b) within the 60-day notice period, the agency has considered the debtor's request.
(2) Pre-offset notice and consideration of evidence for past-due, legally enforceable debt. (i) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, a creditor agency has made a reasonable attempt to notify the debtor if the agency uses the current address information contained in the agency's records related to the debt. Agencies may, but are not required to, obtain address information from the IRS pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103(m)(2), (4), or (5).
Pre-offset notice and consideration of evidence for past-due, legally enforceable debt.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, a creditor agency has made a reasonable attempt to notify the debtor if the agency uses the current address information contained in the agency's records related to the debt. Agencies may, but are not required to, obtain address information from the IRS pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103(m)(2), (4), or (5).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(C) of this section, if the evidence presented by the debtor is considered by an agent of the creditor agency, or other entities or persons acting on the agency's behalf, the debtor must be accorded at least 30 days from the date the agent or other entity or person determines that all or part of the debt is past-due and legally enforceable to request review by an officer or employee of the agency of any unresolved dispute. The agency must then notify the debtor of its decision.
(3) Referral of past-due, legally enforceable debt. A Federal agency will submit past-due, legally enforceable debt information for tax refund offset to Fiscal Service in the time and manner prescribed by Fiscal Service. For each debt, the creditor agency will include the following information:
Referral of past-due, legally enforceable debt.
A Federal agency will submit past-due, legally enforceable debt information for tax refund offset to Fiscal Service in the time and manner prescribed by Fiscal Service. For each debt, the creditor agency will include the following information:
(i) The name and taxpayer identifying number (as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6109) of the debtor who is responsible for the debt;
(ii) The amount of such past-due and legally enforceable debt;
(iii) The date on which the debt became past-due;
(iv) The designation of the Federal agency or subagency referring the debt; and
(v) In the case of an OASDI overpayment, a certification by the Commissioner of Social Security designating whether the amount payable to the agency is to be deposited in either the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, but not both.
(4) Correcting and updating referral. If, after referring a past-due, legally enforceable debt to Fiscal Service as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, a creditor agency determines that an error has been made with respect to the information transmitted to Fiscal Service, or if an agency receives a payment or credits a payment to the account of a debtor referred to Fiscal Service for offset, or if the debt amount is otherwise incorrect, the agency shall promptly notify Fiscal Service and make the appropriate correction of the agency's records. Creditor agencies will provide certification as required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for any increases to amounts owed.
Correcting and updating referral.
If, after referring a past-due, legally enforceable debt to Fiscal Service as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, a creditor agency determines that an error has been made with respect to the information transmitted to Fiscal Service, or if an agency receives a payment or credits a payment to the account of a debtor referred to Fiscal Service for offset, or if the debt amount is otherwise incorrect, the agency shall promptly notify Fiscal Service and make the appropriate correction of the agency's records. Creditor agencies will provide certification as required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for any increases to amounts owed.
(5) Fiscal Service may reject a certification which does not comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Upon notification of the rejection and the reason for the rejection, a creditor agency may resubmit the debt with a corrected certification.
(6)(i) Creditor agencies may submit debts to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset irrespective of the amount of time the debt has been outstanding. Accordingly, all nontax debts, including debts that were delinquent for ten years or longer prior to December 28, 2009 may be collected by tax refund offset.
(ii) For debts outstanding more than ten years on or before December 28, 2009, creditor agencies must certify to Fiscal Service that the notice of intent to offset described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section was sent to the debtor after the debt became ten years delinquent. This requirement will apply even in a case where notice was also sent prior to the debt becoming ten years delinquent, but does not apply to any debt that could be collected by offset without regard to any time limitation prior to December 28, 2009.
(e) Post-offset notice to the debtor, the creditor agency, and the IRS. (1)(i) Fiscal Service will notify the payee(s) to whom the tax refund payment is due, in writing of:
Post-offset notice to the debtor, the creditor agency, and the IRS.
(1)(i) Fiscal Service will notify the payee(s) to whom the tax refund payment is due, in writing of:
(A) The amount and date of the offset to satisfy a past-due, legally enforceable nontax debt;
(B) The creditor agency to which this amount has been paid or credited; and
(C) A contact point within the creditor agency that will handle concerns or questions regarding the offset.
(ii) The notice in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section will also advise any non-debtor spouse who may have filed a joint tax return with the debtor of the steps which a non-debtor spouse may take in order to secure his or her proper share of the tax refund. See paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) Fiscal Service will advise each creditor agency of the names, mailing addresses, and identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts of past-due, legally enforceable debt were collected and of the amounts collected from each debtor for that agency. Fiscal Service will not advise the creditor agency of the source of payment from which such amounts were collected. If a payment from which an amount of past-due, legally enforceable debt is to be withheld is payable to two individual payees, Fiscal Service will notify the creditor agency and furnish the name and address of each payee to whom the payment was payable.
(3) At least weekly, Fiscal Service will notify the IRS of the names and taxpayer identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts of past-due, legally enforceable debt were collected and the amounts collected from each debtor.
(f) Offset made with regard to a tax refund payment based upon joint return. If the person filing a joint return with a debtor owing the past-due, legally enforceable debt takes appropriate action to secure his or her proper share of a tax refund from which an offset was made, the IRS will pay the person his or her share of the refund and request that Fiscal Service deduct that amount from amounts payable to the creditor agency. Fiscal Service and the creditor agency will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
Offset made with regard to a tax refund payment based upon joint return.
If the person filing a joint return with a debtor owing the past-due, legally enforceable debt takes appropriate action to secure his or her proper share of a tax refund from which an offset was made, the IRS will pay the person his or her share of the refund and request that Fiscal Service deduct that amount from amounts payable to the creditor agency. Fiscal Service and the creditor agency will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
(g) Disposition of amounts collected. Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for past-due, legally enforceable debts, less fees charged under paragraph (h) of this section, to the creditor agency's account. If an erroneous payment is made to any agency, Fiscal Service will notify the creditor agency that an erroneous payment has been made. The agency shall pay promptly to Fiscal Service an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (without regard to whether any other amounts payable to such agency have been paid).
Disposition of amounts collected.
Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for past-due, legally enforceable debts, less fees charged under paragraph (h) of this section, to the creditor agency's account. If an erroneous payment is made to any agency, Fiscal Service will notify the creditor agency that an erroneous payment has been made. The agency shall pay promptly to Fiscal Service an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (without regard to whether any other amounts payable to such agency have been paid).
(h) Fees. The creditor agency will reimburse Fiscal Service and the IRS for the full cost of administering the tax refund offset program. Fiscal Service will deduct the fees from amounts collected prior to disposition and transmit a portion of the fees deducted to reimburse the IRS for its share of the cost of administering the tax refund offset program. To the extent allowed by law, creditor agencies may add the offset fees to the debt.
Fees.
The creditor agency will reimburse Fiscal Service and the IRS for the full cost of administering the tax refund offset program. Fiscal Service will deduct the fees from amounts collected prior to disposition and transmit a portion of the fees deducted to reimburse the IRS for its share of the cost of administering the tax refund offset program. To the extent allowed by law, creditor agencies may add the offset fees to the debt.
(i) Review of tax refund offsets. Any reduction of a taxpayer's refund made pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6402(d) shall not be subject to review by any court of the United States or by the Secretary of the Treasury, Fiscal Service or IRS in an administrative proceeding. No action brought against the United States to recover the amount of this reduction shall be considered to be a suit for refund of tax. Any legal, equitable, or administrative action by any person seeking to recover the amount of the reduction of the overpayment must be taken against the Federal creditor agency to which the amount of the reduction was paid. Any action which is otherwise available with respect to recoveries of overpayments of benefits under 42 U.S.C. 404 must be taken against the Commissioner of Social Security.
Review of tax refund offsets.
Any reduction of a taxpayer's refund made pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6402(d) shall not be subject to review by any court of the United States or by the Secretary of the Treasury, Fiscal Service or IRS in an administrative proceeding. No action brought against the United States to recover the amount of this reduction shall be considered to be a suit for refund of tax. Any legal, equitable, or administrative action by any person seeking to recover the amount of the reduction of the overpayment must be taken against the Federal creditor agency to which the amount of the reduction was paid. Any action which is otherwise available with respect to recoveries of overpayments of benefits under 42 U.S.C. 404 must be taken against the Commissioner of Social Security.
(j) Access to and use of confidential tax information. Access to and use of confidential tax information in connection with the tax refund offset program are restricted by 26 U.S.C. 6103. Generally, agencies will not receive confidential tax information from Fiscal Service. To the extent such information is received, agencies are subject to the safeguard, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6103(p)(4) and the regulations thereunder. The agency shall inform its officers and employees who access or use confidential tax information of the restrictions and penalties under the Internal Revenue Code for misuse of confidential tax information.
Access to and use of confidential tax information.
Access to and use of confidential tax information in connection with the tax refund offset program are restricted by 26 U.S.C. 6103. Generally, agencies will not receive confidential tax information from Fiscal Service. To the extent such information is received, agencies are subject to the safeguard, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6103(p)(4) and the regulations thereunder. The agency shall inform its officers and employees who access or use confidential tax information of the restrictions and penalties under the Internal Revenue Code for misuse of confidential tax information.
(k) Effective date. This section applies to tax refund payments payable under 26 U.S.C. 6402 after January 1, 1998.
Effective date.
This section applies to tax refund payments payable under 26 U.S.C. 6402 after January 1, 1998.
[[62 FR 34179, June 25, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 27433, June 10, 2009; 74 FR 68538, Dec. 28, 2009; 75 FR 746, Jan. 4, 2010]]

§ 285.3   Offset of tax refund payments to collect past-due support.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Debt as used in this section is synonymous with the term past-due support unless otherwise indicated.
Debt
as used in this section is synonymous with the term past-due support unless otherwise indicated.
Debtor as used in this section means a person who owes past-due support.
Debtor
as used in this section means a person who owes past-due support.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
HHS means the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Child Support Enforcement.
HHS
means the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Child Support Enforcement.
IRS means the Internal Revenue Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
IRS
means the Internal Revenue Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Past-due support means the amount of support, determined under a court order, or an order of an administrative process established under State law, for support and maintenance of a child, or of a child and the parent with whom the child is living, which has not been paid, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 664(c).
Past-due support
means the amount of support, determined under a court order, or an order of an administrative process established under State law, for support and maintenance of a child, or of a child and the parent with whom the child is living, which has not been paid, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 664(c).
State means the several States of the United States. The term “State” also includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State
means the several States of the United States. The term “State” also includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Tax refund offset means withholding or reducing a tax refund payment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s) of a tax refund payment.
Tax refund offset
means withholding or reducing a tax refund payment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s) of a tax refund payment.
Tax refund payment means any overpayment of Federal taxes to be refunded to the person making the overpayment after the IRS makes the appropriate credits as provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402(a) and 26 CFR 6402-3(a)(6)(i) for any liabilities for any Federal tax on the part of the person who made the overpayment.
Tax refund payment
means any overpayment of Federal taxes to be refunded to the person making the overpayment after the IRS makes the appropriate credits as provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402(a) and 26 CFR 6402-3(a)(6)(i) for any liabilities for any Federal tax on the part of the person who made the overpayment.
(b) General rule. (1) Past-due support will be collected by tax refund offset upon notification to Fiscal Service in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(c), 42 U.S.C. 664 and this section. Collection by offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(c) is a collection procedure separate from the collection procedures provided by 26 U.S.C. 6305 and 26 CFR 301.6305-1, relating to the assessment and collection of certain child and spousal support liabilities. Tax refund offset may be used separately or in conjunction with the collection procedures provided in 26 U.S.C. 6305, as well as other collection procedures.
General rule.
(1) Past-due support will be collected by tax refund offset upon notification to Fiscal Service in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(c), 42 U.S.C. 664 and this section. Collection by offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(c) is a collection procedure separate from the collection procedures provided by 26 U.S.C. 6305 and 26 CFR 301.6305-1, relating to the assessment and collection of certain child and spousal support liabilities. Tax refund offset may be used separately or in conjunction with the collection procedures provided in 26 U.S.C. 6305, as well as other collection procedures.
(2) Fiscal Service will compare tax refund payment records, as certified by the IRS, with records of debts submitted to Fiscal Service. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number (as that term is used in 26 U.S.C. 6109) and name of a payment certification record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of a delinquent debtor record. When a match occurs and all other requirements for tax refund offset have been met, Fiscal Service will reduce the amount of any tax refund payment payable to a debtor by the amount of any past-due support debt owed by the debtor. Any amounts not offset will be paid to the payee(s) listed in the payment certification record.
(c) Notification of past-due support—(1) Past-due support eligible for tax refund offset. Past-due support qualifies for tax refund offset if:
Notification of past-due support
—(1)
Past-due support eligible for tax refund offset.
Past-due support qualifies for tax refund offset if:
(i)(A) There has been an assignment of the support obligation to a State and the amount of past-due support is not less than $25.00, or such higher amount as HHS rules may allow, whichever is greater; or
(B) A State agency is providing support collection services under 42 U.S.C. 654(4) and the amount of the past-due support is not less than $500.00; and
(ii) A notification of liability for past-due support has been received by Fiscal Service as prescribed by paragraphs (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section.
(2) Notification of liability for past-due support and transmission of information to Fiscal Service by HHS. States notifying HHS of past-due support shall do so in the manner and format prescribed by HHS. The notification of liability shall be accompanied by a certification that the State has complied with the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section and with any requirements applicable to the offset of Federal tax refunds to collect past-due support imposed by State law or procedures. HHS shall consolidate and transmit to Fiscal Service the information contained in the notifications of liability for past-due support submitted by the States provided that the State has certified that the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section have been met.
Notification of liability for past-due support and transmission of information to Fiscal Service by HHS.
States notifying HHS of past-due support shall do so in the manner and format prescribed by HHS. The notification of liability shall be accompanied by a certification that the State has complied with the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section and with any requirements applicable to the offset of Federal tax refunds to collect past-due support imposed by State law or procedures. HHS shall consolidate and transmit to Fiscal Service the information contained in the notifications of liability for past-due support submitted by the States provided that the State has certified that the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section have been met.
(3) Notification of liability for past-due support transmitted directly to Fiscal Service by States. States must notify HHS of past-due support in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section unless HHS rules authorize notification to Fiscal Service directly. If authorized by HHS rules, States may notify Fiscal Service directly of past-due support. States notifying Fiscal Service directly of past-due support shall do so in the manner and format prescribed by Fiscal Service. The notification of liability shall be accompanied by a certification that the State has complied with the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section and with any requirements applicable to the offset of Federal tax refunds to collect past-due support imposed by State law or procedures. Fiscal Service may reject a notification of past-due support which does not comply with the requirements of this section. Upon notification of the rejection and the reason for rejection, the State may resubmit a corrected notification.
Notification of liability for past-due support transmitted directly to Fiscal Service by States.
States must notify HHS of past-due support in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section unless HHS rules authorize notification to Fiscal Service directly. If authorized by HHS rules, States may notify Fiscal Service directly of past-due support. States notifying Fiscal Service directly of past-due support shall do so in the manner and format prescribed by Fiscal Service. The notification of liability shall be accompanied by a certification that the State has complied with the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section and with any requirements applicable to the offset of Federal tax refunds to collect past-due support imposed by State law or procedures. Fiscal Service may reject a notification of past-due support which does not comply with the requirements of this section. Upon notification of the rejection and the reason for rejection, the State may resubmit a corrected notification.
(4) Advance notification to debtor of intent to collect by tax refund offset. The State, or HHS if the State requests and HHS agrees, is required to provide a written notification to the debtor, pursuant to the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 664(a)(3) and 45 CFR 303.72(e), informing the debtor that the State intends to refer the debt for collection by tax refund offset. The notice also shall:
Advance notification to debtor of intent to collect by tax refund offset.
The State, or HHS if the State requests and HHS agrees, is required to provide a written notification to the debtor, pursuant to the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 664(a)(3) and 45 CFR 303.72(e), informing the debtor that the State intends to refer the debt for collection by tax refund offset. The notice also shall:
(i) Instruct the debtor of the steps which may be taken to contest the State's determination that past-due support is owed or the amount of the past-due support;
(ii) Advise any non-debtor who may file a joint tax return with the debtor of the steps which a non-debtor spouse may take in order to secure his or her proper share of the tax refund; and
(iii) In cases when a debt is being enforced by more than one State, advise the debtor of his or her opportunities to request a review with the State enforcing collection or the State issuing the support order as prescribed by the provisions of 45 CFR 303.72(g).
(5) Correcting and updating notification. The State shall, in the manner and in the time frames provided by Fiscal Service or HHS, notify Fiscal Service or HHS of any deletion or net decrease in the amount of past-due support referred to Fiscal Service, or HHS as the case may be, for collection by tax refund offset. The State may notify Fiscal Service or HHS of any increases in the amount of the debt referred to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset provided that the State has complied with the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section with regard to those debts.
Correcting and updating notification.
The State shall, in the manner and in the time frames provided by Fiscal Service or HHS, notify Fiscal Service or HHS of any deletion or net decrease in the amount of past-due support referred to Fiscal Service, or HHS as the case may be, for collection by tax refund offset. The State may notify Fiscal Service or HHS of any increases in the amount of the debt referred to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset provided that the State has complied with the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section with regard to those debts.
(6) Collection of past-due support enforced by multiple States. When a State has knowledge that the debt is being enforced by more than one State, the State notifying Fiscal Service, or HHS as the case may be, of the debt shall inform any such other State involved in enforcing the debt when it receives the offset amount.
Collection of past-due support enforced by multiple States.
When a State has knowledge that the debt is being enforced by more than one State, the State notifying Fiscal Service, or HHS as the case may be, of the debt shall inform any such other State involved in enforcing the debt when it receives the offset amount.
(d) Priorities for offset. (1) As provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402, a tax refund payment shall be reduced in the following order of priority:
Priorities for offset.
(1) As provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402, a tax refund payment shall be reduced in the following order of priority:
(i) First, by the amount of any past-due support which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(c) and 42 U.S.C. 464;
(ii) Second, by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed to a Federal agency which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(d), 31 U.S.C. 3720A and § 285.2 of this part; and
(iii) Third, by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed to States (other than past-due support) which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) or 26 U.S.C. 6402(f).
(2) Reduction of the tax refund payment pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6402(a), (c), (d), and (e) shall occur prior to crediting the overpayment to any future liability for an internal revenue tax. Any amount remaining after tax refund offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(a), (c), (d), and (e) shall be refunded to the taxpayer, or applied to estimated tax, if elected by the taxpayer pursuant to IRS regulations.
(e) Post-offset notice. (1)(i) Fiscal Service shall notify the debtor in writing of:
Post-offset notice.
(1)(i) Fiscal Service shall notify the debtor in writing of:
(A) The amount and date of the offset to satisfy past-due support;
(B) The State to which this amount has been paid or credited; and
(C) A contact point within the State that will handle concerns or questions regarding the offset.
(ii) The notice in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section also will advise any non-debtor who may have filed a joint tax return with the debtor of the steps which a non-debtor spouse may take in order to secure his or her proper share of the tax refund. See paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) Fiscal Service will advise HHS of the names, mailing addresses, and identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts of past-due support were collected, of the amounts collected from each debtor through tax refund offset, the names of any non-debtor spouses who may have filed a joint return with the debtor, and of the State on whose behalf each collection was made. Alternatively, Fiscal Service will provide such information to each State that refers debts directly to Fiscal Service. Fiscal Service will inform HHS and each State that the payment source is a tax refund payment.
(3) At least weekly, Fiscal Service will notify the IRS of the names and taxpayer identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts owed for past-due support were collected from tax refund offsets and the amounts collected from each debtor.
(4) At such time and in such manner as Fiscal Service and HHS agree, but no less than annually, Fiscal Service will advise HHS of the States which have furnished notices of past-due support, the number of cases in each State with respect to which such notices have been furnished, the amount of past-due support sought to be collected by each State, and the amount of such tax refund offset collections actually made in the case of each State. As Fiscal Service and HHS may agree, Fiscal Service may provide additional offset-related information about States which have furnished notices of past-due support.
(f) Offset made with regard to a tax refund payment based upon joint return. If the person filing a joint return with a debtor owing the past-due support takes appropriate action to secure his or her proper share of a tax refund from which an offset was made, the IRS will pay the person his or her share of the refund and request that Fiscal Service deduct that amount from amounts payable to HHS or the State, as the case may be. Fiscal Service and HHS, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
Offset made with regard to a tax refund payment based upon joint return.
If the person filing a joint return with a debtor owing the past-due support takes appropriate action to secure his or her proper share of a tax refund from which an offset was made, the IRS will pay the person his or her share of the refund and request that Fiscal Service deduct that amount from amounts payable to HHS or the State, as the case may be. Fiscal Service and HHS, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
(g) Disposition of amounts collected. Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (i) of this section, to HHS or to the appropriate State. If IRS notifies Fiscal Service that a tax refund payment that was offset was erroneous or otherwise not due to the taxpayer, Fiscal Service will notify HHS or the appropriate State that the tax refund payment was not eligible for offset. Subject to paragraph (h) of this section, Fiscal Service may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset funds from amounts payable to HHS or the State, as the case may be; or, upon Fiscal Service's request, the State shall return promptly to the affected taxpayer or Fiscal Service an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous funds (unless the State previously has forwarded such amounts, or any portion of such amounts, to the affected taxpayer). HHS and States shall notify Fiscal Service any time HHS or a State returns an erroneous offset payment to an affected taxpayer. Fiscal Service and HHS, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
Disposition of amounts collected.
Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (i) of this section, to HHS or to the appropriate State. If IRS notifies Fiscal Service that a tax refund payment that was offset was erroneous or otherwise not due to the taxpayer, Fiscal Service will notify HHS or the appropriate State that the tax refund payment was not eligible for offset. Subject to paragraph (h) of this section, Fiscal Service may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset funds from amounts payable to HHS or the State, as the case may be; or, upon Fiscal Service's request, the State shall return promptly to the affected taxpayer or Fiscal Service an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous funds (unless the State previously has forwarded such amounts, or any portion of such amounts, to the affected taxpayer). HHS and States shall notify Fiscal Service any time HHS or a State returns an erroneous offset payment to an affected taxpayer. Fiscal Service and HHS, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
(h) Time limitation. If IRS notifies Fiscal Service on or after January 1, 2016, that a tax refund payment that was offset was erroneous or otherwise not due to the taxpayer, Fiscal Service shall not deduct the amount of the erroneous offset funds from amounts due to HHS or the State, or otherwise demand return of the offset funds from the State pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, if the date of IRS's notification to Fiscal Service in paragraph (g) is more than six months after the date the tax refund was offset (i.e., the tax refund payment date); and the State has already forwarded the funds as required or authorized by 42 U.S.C. 657. This paragraph does not apply to paragraph (f) of this section.
Time limitation.
If IRS notifies Fiscal Service on or after January 1, 2016, that a tax refund payment that was offset was erroneous or otherwise not due to the taxpayer, Fiscal Service shall not deduct the amount of the erroneous offset funds from amounts due to HHS or the State, or otherwise demand return of the offset funds from the State pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, if the date of IRS's notification to Fiscal Service in paragraph (g) is more than six months after the date the tax refund was offset (
i.e.,
the tax refund payment date); and the State has already forwarded the funds as required or authorized by 42 U.S.C. 657. This paragraph does not apply to paragraph (f) of this section.
(i) Fees. The State will pay a fee to Fiscal Service for the full cost of administering the tax refund offset program. The fee (not to exceed $25 per case submitted) will be established annually in such amount as Fiscal Service and HHS agree to be sufficient to reimburse Fiscal Service for the full cost of the offset procedure. Fiscal Service will deduct the fees from amounts collected prior to disposition and transmit a portion of the fees deducted to reimburse the IRS for its share of the cost of administering the tax refund offset program. Fees will be charged only for actual tax refund offsets completed.
Fees.
The State will pay a fee to Fiscal Service for the full cost of administering the tax refund offset program. The fee (not to exceed $25 per case submitted) will be established annually in such amount as Fiscal Service and HHS agree to be sufficient to reimburse Fiscal Service for the full cost of the offset procedure. Fiscal Service will deduct the fees from amounts collected prior to disposition and transmit a portion of the fees deducted to reimburse the IRS for its share of the cost of administering the tax refund offset program. Fees will be charged only for actual tax refund offsets completed.
(j) Review of tax refund offsets. In accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(f), any reduction of a taxpayer's refund made pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6402(c), (d), or (e) shall not be subject to review by any court of the United States or by the Secretary of the Treasury, Fiscal Service or IRS in an administrative proceeding. No action brought against the United States to recover the amount of this reduction shall be considered to be a suit for refund of tax.
Review of tax refund offsets.
In accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(f), any reduction of a taxpayer's refund made pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6402(c), (d), or (e) shall not be subject to review by any court of the United States or by the Secretary of the Treasury, Fiscal Service or IRS in an administrative proceeding. No action brought against the United States to recover the amount of this reduction shall be considered to be a suit for refund of tax.
(k) Access to and use of confidential tax information. Access to and use of confidential tax information in connection with the tax refund offset program is permitted to the extent necessary in establishing appropriate agency records, locating any person with respect to whom a reduction under 26 U.S.C. 6402(c) is sought for purposes of collecting the debt, and in the defense of any litigation or administrative procedure ensuing from a reduction made under section 6402(c).
Access to and use of confidential tax information.
Access to and use of confidential tax information in connection with the tax refund offset program is permitted to the extent necessary in establishing appropriate agency records, locating any person with respect to whom a reduction under 26 U.S.C. 6402(c) is sought for purposes of collecting the debt, and in the defense of any litigation or administrative procedure ensuing from a reduction made under section 6402(c).
(l) Effective date. This section applies to tax refund payments payable under 26 U.S.C. 6402 after January 1, 1999.
Effective date.
This section applies to tax refund payments payable under 26 U.S.C. 6402 after January 1, 1999.
(m) Social Security numbers. Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer the tax refund offset program, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
Social Security numbers.
Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer the tax refund offset program, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
(1) In interoffice and interagency communications;
(2) In notices, including notices to the debtor or payee that an offset has or will occur, when the Social Security number is (or is embedded in) a creditor agency's account number, debt identification number, or debtor identification number;
(3) In response to a request of a debtor or a debtor's representative for records of Fiscal Service's offset activities; and
(4) When required by law.
[[63 FR 72094, Dec. 30, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 59480, Oct. 22, 2007; 74 FR 27433, June 10, 2009; 80 FR 81465, Dec. 30, 2015; 87 FR 50248, Aug. 16, 2022]]

§ 285.4   Offset of Federal benefit payments to collect past-due, legally enforceable nontax debt.

(a) Scope. (1) This section sets forth special rules applicable to the offset of Federal benefit payments payable to an individual under the Social Security Act (other than Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act, or any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than payments that such Board determines to be tier 2 benefits) to collect delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States.
Scope.
(1) This section sets forth special rules applicable to the offset of Federal benefit payments payable to an individual under the Social Security Act (other than Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act, or any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than payments that such Board determines to be tier 2 benefits) to collect delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States.
(2) As used in this section, benefit payments “due to” an individual, “payable to” an individual, and/or benefit payments “received by” an individual, refer to those benefit payments expected to be paid to an individual before any amounts are offset to satisfy the payee's delinquent debt owed to the United States. Nothing in these phrases, similar phrases, or this section is intended to imply or confer any new or additional rights or benefits on an individual with respect to his or her entitlement to benefit payments. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service), the Social Security Administration, the Railroad Retirement Board, and other payment agencies are not liable for the amount offset from an individual's benefit payment on the basis that the underlying obligation, represented by the payment before the offset was taken, was not satisfied. See 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(2)(A).
(b) Definitions. As used in this section:
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Administrative offset or offset means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt.
Administrative offset
or
offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a State government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt.
Agency or Federal agency means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Agency
or
Federal agency
means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Covered benefit payment means a Federal benefit payment payable to an individual under the Social Security Act (other than SSI payments), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act, or any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than payments that such Board determines to be tier 2 benefits). The amount of the covered benefit payment payable to a debtor for purposes of this section will be the amount after reduction or deduction required under the laws authorizing the program. Reductions to recover benefit overpayments are excluded from the covered benefit payment when calculating amounts available for offset.
Covered benefit payment
means a Federal benefit payment payable to an individual under the Social Security Act (other than SSI payments), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act, or any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than payments that such Board determines to be tier 2 benefits). The amount of the covered benefit payment payable to a debtor for purposes of this section will be the amount after reduction or deduction required under the laws authorizing the program. Reductions to recover benefit overpayments are excluded from the covered benefit payment when calculating amounts available for offset.
Creditor agency means a Federal agency owed a debt that seeks to collect that debt through administrative offset.
Creditor agency
means a Federal agency owed a debt that seeks to collect that debt through administrative offset.
Debt or claim means an amount of money, funds, or property which has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity except another Federal agency. Debt or claim does not include a debt or claim arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or the tariff laws of the United States.
Debt
or
claim
means an amount of money, funds, or property which has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity except another Federal agency. Debt or claim does not include a debt or claim arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or the tariff laws of the United States.
Debtor means a person who owes a debt. The term “person” includes any individual, organization or entity, except another Federal agency.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt. The term “person” includes any individual, organization or entity, except another Federal agency.
Disbursing official means an official who has authority to disburse public money pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another law, including an official of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, or any other government corporation, or any official of the United States designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to disburse public money.
Disbursing official
means an official who has authority to disburse public money pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another law, including an official of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, or any other government corporation, or any official of the United States designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to disburse public money.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Monthly covered benefit payment means a covered benefit payment payable to a payee on a recurring basis at monthly intervals that is not expressly limited in duration, at the time the first payment is made, to a period of less than 12 months.
Monthly covered benefit payment
means a covered benefit payment payable to a payee on a recurring basis at monthly intervals that is not expressly limited in duration, at the time the first payment is made, to a period of less than 12 months.
Payee means a person who is due a payment from a disbursing official. For purposes of this section, a “payee” is a person who is entitled to the benefit of all or part of a payment from a disbursing official.
Payee
means a person who is due a payment from a disbursing official. For purposes of this section, a “payee” is a person who is entitled to the benefit of all or part of a payment from a disbursing official.
Taxpayer identifying number means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number generally is the individual's social security number.
Taxpayer identifying number
means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number generally is the individual's social security number.
(c) Administrative offset, generally. Disbursing officials shall offset payments to satisfy, in whole or in part, debts owed by the payee. Disbursing officials shall compare payment records with records of debts submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number and name of the payee (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) on a payment record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of the debtor on a debt record. When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset have been met, the disbursing official shall offset the payment to satisfy, in whole or in part, the debt. Any amounts not offset shall be paid to the payee. Covered benefit payments, i.e., payments made to individuals under the Social Security Act (other than Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act, or any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) (other than tier 2 benefit payments) are among the types of payments which may be offset to collect debts owed to the United States. Offset of covered benefit payments are subject to the limitations contained in this section. Offsets of covered benefit payments will occur only if the name and taxpayer identifying number of the person who is entitled to the benefit of all or a part of the payment matches the name and taxpayer identifying number of the debtor.
Administrative offset, generally.
Disbursing officials shall offset payments to satisfy, in whole or in part, debts owed by the payee. Disbursing officials shall compare payment records with records of debts submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number and name of the payee (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) on a payment record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of the debtor on a debt record. When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset have been met, the disbursing official shall offset the payment to satisfy, in whole or in part, the debt. Any amounts not offset shall be paid to the payee. Covered benefit payments, i.e., payments made to individuals under the Social Security Act (other than Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act, or any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) (other than tier 2 benefit payments) are among the types of payments which may be offset to collect debts owed to the United States. Offset of covered benefit payments are subject to the limitations contained in this section. Offsets of covered benefit payments will occur only if the name and taxpayer identifying number of the person who is entitled to the benefit of all or a part of the payment matches the name and taxpayer identifying number of the debtor.
(d) Submission of debts to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset. Creditor agencies must notify Fiscal Service of all past-due, legally enforceable debt delinquent for more than 120 days for purposes of collection by administrative offset. Creditor agencies may notify Fiscal Service of all debt delinquent for less than 120 days for purposes of collection by administrative offset. Prior to such notification, creditor agencies must certify to Fiscal Service that the debt is past-due, legally enforceable, and that the creditor agency has provided the debtor with notice and an opportunity for a review in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and other applicable law.
Submission of debts to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset.
Creditor agencies must notify Fiscal Service of all past-due, legally enforceable debt delinquent for more than 120 days for purposes of collection by administrative offset. Creditor agencies may notify Fiscal Service of all debt delinquent for less than 120 days for purposes of collection by administrative offset. Prior to such notification, creditor agencies must certify to Fiscal Service that the debt is past-due, legally enforceable, and that the creditor agency has provided the debtor with notice and an opportunity for a review in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and other applicable law.
(e) Offset amount. (1) The amount offset from a monthly covered benefit payment shall be the lesser of:
Offset amount.
(1) The amount offset from a monthly covered benefit payment shall be the lesser of:
(i) The amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties and administrative costs;
(ii) An amount equal to 15% of the monthly covered benefit payment; or
(iii) The amount, if any, by which the monthly covered benefit payment exceeds $750.
(2) A debtor shall not receive a refund of any amounts offset if the debtor's monthly covered benefit payments are reduced, suspended, terminated, or otherwise not received for a period of 12 months.
(3) Examples. (i) A debtor receives monthly Social Security benefits of $850. The amount offset is the lesser of $127.50 (15% of $850) or $100 (the amount by which $850 exceeds $750). In this example, the amount offset is $100 (assuming the debt is $100 or more).
Examples.
(i) A debtor receives monthly Social Security benefits of $850. The amount offset is the lesser of $127.50 (15% of $850) or $100 (the amount by which $850 exceeds $750). In this example, the amount offset is $100 (assuming the debt is $100 or more).
(ii) A debtor receives monthly Social Security benefits of $1250. The amount offset is the lesser of $187.50 (15% of $1250) or $500 (the amount by which $1250 exceeds $750). In this example, the amount offset is $187.50 (assuming the debt is $187.50 or more).
(iii) A debtor receives monthly Social Security payments of $650. No amount will be offset because $650 is less than $750.
(f) Notification of offset. (1) Before offsetting a covered benefit payment, the disbursing official will notify the payee in writing of the date offset will commence. The notice shall inform the payee of the type of payment that will be offset; the identity of the creditor agency which requested the offset; and a contact point within the creditor agency that will handle concerns regarding the offset.
Notification of offset.
(1) Before offsetting a covered benefit payment, the disbursing official will notify the payee in writing of the date offset will commence. The notice shall inform the payee of the type of payment that will be offset; the identity of the creditor agency which requested the offset; and a contact point within the creditor agency that will handle concerns regarding the offset.
(2) The disbursing official conducting the offset will notify the payee in writing of the occurrence of the offset to satisfy, in whole or in part, a delinquent debt owed to the United States. The notice shall inform the payee of the type and amount of the payment that was offset; the identity of the creditor agency which requested the offset; and a contact point within the creditor agency that will handle concerns regarding the offset.
(3) Non-receipt by the debtor of the notices described in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section shall not impair the legality of the administrative offset.
(g) Fees. A fee which Fiscal Service has determined to be sufficient to cover the full cost of the offset procedure, shall be deducted from each offset amount. Creditor agencies may add this fee to the debt if not otherwise prohibited by law.
Fees.
A fee which Fiscal Service has determined to be sufficient to cover the full cost of the offset procedure, shall be deducted from each offset amount. Creditor agencies may add this fee to the debt if not otherwise prohibited by law.
(h) Disposition of amounts collected. The disbursing official conducting the offset will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (g) of this section, to the appropriate creditor agency. If an erroneous offset payment is made to a creditor agency, the disbursing official will notify the creditor agency that an erroneous offset payment has been made. The disbursing official may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to the creditor agency. Alternatively, upon the disbursing official's request, the creditor agency shall return promptly to the disbursing official or the affected payee an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment. The disbursing official and the creditor agency shall adjust the debtor records appropriately.
Disposition of amounts collected.
The disbursing official conducting the offset will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (g) of this section, to the appropriate creditor agency. If an erroneous offset payment is made to a creditor agency, the disbursing official will notify the creditor agency that an erroneous offset payment has been made. The disbursing official may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to the creditor agency. Alternatively, upon the disbursing official's request, the creditor agency shall return promptly to the disbursing official or the affected payee an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment. The disbursing official and the creditor agency shall adjust the debtor records appropriately.
[[63 FR 44988, Aug. 21, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 1319, Jan. 12, 2016]]

§ 285.5   Centralized offset of Federal payments to collect nontax debts owed to the United States.

(a) Scope. (1) This section governs the centralized offset of Federal payments to collect delinquent, nontax debts owed to Federal agencies in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716, 3720A and 26 U.S.C. 6402 and applicable regulations. The Department of the Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service) administers centralized offset through the Treasury Offset Program. Offset occurs when the Federal government withholds part or all of a debtor's Federal payment to satisfy the debtor's delinquent debt owed to the government.
Scope.
(1) This section governs the centralized offset of Federal payments to collect delinquent, nontax debts owed to Federal agencies in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716, 3720A and 26 U.S.C. 6402 and applicable regulations. The Department of the Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service) administers centralized offset through the Treasury Offset Program. Offset occurs when the Federal government withholds part or all of a debtor's Federal payment to satisfy the debtor's delinquent debt owed to the government.
(2) Special rules apply to the collection of delinquent, nontax debts through the centralized offset of certain types of Federal payments, including tax refunds (31 CFR 285.2), Federal benefit payments (31 CFR 285.4), and Federal salary payments (31 CFR 285.7). While this rule applies to such payments, nothing in this rule is intended to contradict any provision of those more specific sections. To the extent any provision of this rule is inconsistent with a more specific provision of § 285.2, § 285.4 or § 285.7 of this part, the more specific provision shall apply.
(3) The receipt of collections pursuant to this section does not preclude a Federal agency from pursuing other debt collection remedies in conjunction with centralized offset. Nothing in this section precludes an agency from pursuing all available debt collection remedies simultaneously, provided that collections do not exceed the amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
(b) Definitions. As used in this section:
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Agency or Federal agency means a department, agency or subagency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Agency
or
Federal agency
means a department, agency or subagency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Centralized offset means the offset of Federal payments through the Treasury Offset Program to collect debts which creditor agencies have certified pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), 3720A(a) and applicable regulations. The term “centralized offset” includes the Treasury Offset Program's processing of offsets of Federal payments disbursed by disbursing officials other than Fiscal Service.
Centralized offset
means the offset of Federal payments through the Treasury Offset Program to collect debts which creditor agencies have certified pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), 3720A(a) and applicable regulations. The term “centralized offset” includes the Treasury Offset Program's processing of offsets of Federal payments disbursed by disbursing officials other than Fiscal Service.
Creditor agency has the same meaning as found at 31 U.S.C. 3701(e)(1) and means any Federal agency that is owed a claim or debt that seeks to collect that claim or debt through offset of Federal payments.
Creditor agency
has the same meaning as found at 31 U.S.C. 3701(e)(1) and means any Federal agency that is owed a claim or debt that seeks to collect that claim or debt through offset of Federal payments.
Debt or claim has the meaning contained in 31 U.S.C. 3701(b) and means any amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. The terms “debt” and “claim” are synonymous and include debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government. For purposes of this section, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), the tariff laws of the United States, or the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), except to the extent provided in sections 204(f) and 1631(b)(4) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 404(f) and 1383(b)(4)(A), respectively) and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c).
Debt
or
claim
has the meaning contained in 31 U.S.C. 3701(b) and means any amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. The terms “debt” and “claim” are synonymous and include debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government. For purposes of this section, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), the tariff laws of the United States, or the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), except to the extent provided in sections 204(f) and 1631(b)(4) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 404(f) and 1383(b)(4)(A), respectively) and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c).
Debt collection center means a Federal agency or a unit or subagency within a Federal agency that has been designated by the Secretary to collect debt owed to the United States.
Debt collection center
means a Federal agency or a unit or subagency within a Federal agency that has been designated by the Secretary to collect debt owed to the United States.
Debtor means a person who owes a debt to the United States.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt to the United States.
Delinquent or past-due refers to the status of a debt and means a debt has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment, or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement), unless other payment arrangements satisfactory to the creditor agency have been made. Nothing in this section is intended to define whether a debt is delinquent or past-due for purposes other than offset under this section.
Delinquent
or
past-due
refers to the status of a debt and means a debt has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment, or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement), unless other payment arrangements satisfactory to the creditor agency have been made. Nothing in this section is intended to define whether a debt is delinquent or past-due for purposes other than offset under this section.
Delinquent debt record means information about a past-due, legally enforceable debt submitted by a creditor agency to Fiscal Service for purposes of offset in accordance with the provisions of this section. Information about a past-due, legally enforceable debt includes, but is not limited to, the amount of the debt and the debtor's name, address, and taxpayer identifying number.
Delinquent debt record
means information about a past-due, legally enforceable debt submitted by a creditor agency to Fiscal Service for purposes of offset in accordance with the provisions of this section. Information about a past-due, legally enforceable debt includes, but is not limited to, the amount of the debt and the debtor's name, address, and taxpayer identifying number.
Disbursing official means an official who has authority to disburse public money pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another law, including an official of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, or any other government corporation, or any official of the United States designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to disburse public money.
Disbursing official
means an official who has authority to disburse public money pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another law, including an official of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, or any other government corporation, or any official of the United States designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to disburse public money.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury and its disbursing office. Fiscal Service is responsible for administering centralized offset.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury and its disbursing office. Fiscal Service is responsible for administering centralized offset.
Legally enforceable refers to a characteristic of a debt and means there has been a final agency determination that the debt, in the amount stated, is due, and there are no legal bars to collection by offset. Debts that are not legally enforceable for purposes of this section include, but are not limited to, debts subject to the automatic stay in bankruptcy proceedings or debts covered by a statute that prohibits collection of such debt by offset. For example, if a delinquent debt is the subject of a pending administrative review process required by statute or regulation, and if collection action during the review process is prohibited, the debt is not considered legally enforceable for purposes of this section. Nothing in this section is intended to define whether a debt is legally enforceable for purposes other than offset under this section.
Legally enforceable
refers to a characteristic of a debt and means there has been a final agency determination that the debt, in the amount stated, is due, and there are no legal bars to collection by offset. Debts that are not legally enforceable for purposes of this section include, but are not limited to, debts subject to the automatic stay in bankruptcy proceedings or debts covered by a statute that prohibits collection of such debt by offset. For example, if a delinquent debt is the subject of a pending administrative review process required by statute or regulation, and if collection action during the review process is prohibited, the debt is not considered legally enforceable for purposes of this section. Nothing in this section is intended to define whether a debt is legally enforceable for purposes other than offset under this section.
Match means the taxpayer identifying number and name (or derivative thereof) of the payee on a payment record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of the debtor on a delinquent debt record.
Match
means the taxpayer identifying number and name (or derivative thereof) of the payee on a payment record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of the debtor on a delinquent debt record.
Offset means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
Offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
Past-due has the same meaning as “delinquent”, as defined above.
Past-due
has the same meaning as “delinquent”, as defined above.
Payee means a person who is due a payment from a disbursing official as certified by the payment agency. For purposes of this section, a “payee” is a person who is entitled to the benefit of all or part of a payment from a disbursing official.
Payee
means a person who is due a payment from a disbursing official as certified by the payment agency. For purposes of this section, a “payee” is a person who is entitled to the benefit of all or part of a payment from a disbursing official.
Payment agency means any agency that transmits payment requests, in the form of certified payment vouchers or other similar forms, to a disbursing official for disbursement.
Payment agency
means any agency that transmits payment requests, in the form of certified payment vouchers or other similar forms, to a disbursing official for disbursement.
Payment record means information contained on a payment request, in the form of a certified payment voucher or other similar form, that has been transmitted to a disbursing official for disbursement in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3325 and 3528 or other applicable law. For purposes of matching, “payment record” may include information extracted from a payment request. Such information could include, but is not limited to, the amount and type of payment and the payee's name, address, and taxpayer identifying number.
Payment record
means information contained on a payment request, in the form of a certified payment voucher or other similar form, that has been transmitted to a disbursing official for disbursement in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3325 and 3528 or other applicable law. For purposes of matching, “payment record” may include information extracted from a payment request. Such information could include, but is not limited to, the amount and type of payment and the payee's name, address, and taxpayer identifying number.
Person means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency.
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency.
Recurring payment means a payment to an individual that is expected to be payable to a payee at regular intervals, at least four times annually. The term “recurring payment” does not include payments made pursuant to a Federal contract, grant or cooperative agreement.
Recurring payment
means a payment to an individual that is expected to be payable to a payee at regular intervals, at least four times annually. The term “recurring payment” does not include payments made pursuant to a Federal contract, grant or cooperative agreement.
Representative payee means a person named as payee on the payment voucher certified by the payment agency who is acting on behalf of a person entitled to receive the benefit of all or part of the payment.
Representative payee
means a person named as payee on the payment voucher certified by the payment agency who is acting on behalf of a person entitled to receive the benefit of all or part of the payment.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Taxpayer identifying number means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number is generally the individual's social security number.
Taxpayer identifying number
means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number is generally the individual's social security number.
(c) General rule. (1) Creditor agencies shall submit delinquent debts to Fiscal Service for purposes of offset in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
General rule.
(1) Creditor agencies shall submit delinquent debts to Fiscal Service for purposes of offset in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Disbursing officials shall compare payment records with delinquent debt records submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by offset. When a match occurs, and all other requirements for offset have been met, the disbursing official shall offset the payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the payee's debt to the extent allowed by law. The disbursing official shall pay any amounts not offset to the payee. See paragraphs (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this section.
(d) Requirements for creditor agencies—(1) Mandatory notification of delinquent debts. As required by 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6), and in accordance with the provisions of this section, a creditor agency shall notify Fiscal Service of all legally enforceable debts over 120 days delinquent that are owed to the creditor agency. By complying with this requirement, creditor agencies will satisfy the requirement of 31 U.S.C. 3720A(a) to notify the Secretary of past due, legally enforceable debt for purposes of tax refund offset. If a debt which is over 120 days delinquent is considered not legally enforceable solely because it is under review as described in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section, the agency must submit the debt to Fiscal Service for collection by offset within 30 days of completing the review.
Requirements for creditor agencies
—(1)
Mandatory notification of delinquent debts.
As required by 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6), and in accordance with the provisions of this section, a creditor agency shall notify Fiscal Service of all legally enforceable debts over 120 days delinquent that are owed to the creditor agency. By complying with this requirement, creditor agencies will satisfy the requirement of 31 U.S.C. 3720A(a) to notify the Secretary of past due, legally enforceable debt for purposes of tax refund offset. If a debt which is over 120 days delinquent is considered not legally enforceable solely because it is under review as described in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section, the agency must submit the debt to Fiscal Service for collection by offset within 30 days of completing the review.
(2) Discretionary notification of delinquent debts. Creditor agencies may notify Fiscal Service of any debt that is less than 120 days delinquent, so long as the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section are met.
Discretionary notification of delinquent debts.
Creditor agencies may notify Fiscal Service of any debt that is less than 120 days delinquent, so long as the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section are met.
(3) Debt eligibility. (i) A debt submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by centralized offset must be:
Debt eligibility.
(i) A debt submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by centralized offset must be:
(A) Past-due in the amount stated by the creditor agency;
(B) Legally enforceable;
(C) More than $25, or such other amount as Fiscal Service may prescribe; and
(D) Not secured by collateral subject to a pending foreclosure action, unless the creditor agency certifies that offset will not affect the Government's rights to the secured collateral.
(ii) The creditor agency must certify that the debt is eligible for collection by offset, as required in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(iii) Debts owed by foreign sovereigns may be referred to Treasury Offset Program at the discretion of the creditor agency to the extent allowed by law, but are excluded from mandatory referral under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(iv) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3719 and the procedures promulgated thereunder, creditor agencies must report to Treasury the amount of debt over 120 days delinquent eligible for the Treasury Offset Program. The procedures require that such report include the amount of debt over 120 days delinquent that the creditor agency has determined is not eligible for the Treasury Offset Program and the reasons for such determination.
(v) Creditor agencies may submit nontax debts to Fiscal Service for collection by centralized offset irrespective of the amount of time the debt has been outstanding. Accordingly, all nontax debts, including debts that were outstanding for ten years or longer prior to June 11, 2009 may be collected by centralized offset.
(4) Creditor agency regulations. Prior to submitting a debt to Fiscal Service for purposes of offset, Federal agencies shall prescribe regulations in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716(b), 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4), 31 U.S.C. 3720A(a), and 31 CFR 285.2(c). Before submitting debts to Fiscal Service for purposes of offsetting Federal salary payments, creditor agencies must also publish regulations pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514, 31 CFR 285.7(d)(2), and 5 CFR 550.1104.
Creditor agency regulations.
Prior to submitting a debt to Fiscal Service for purposes of offset, Federal agencies shall prescribe regulations in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716(b), 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4), 31 U.S.C. 3720A(a), and 31 CFR 285.2(c). Before submitting debts to Fiscal Service for purposes of offsetting Federal salary payments, creditor agencies must also publish regulations pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514, 31 CFR 285.7(d)(2), and 5 CFR 550.1104.
(5) Delinquent debt information requirements. For each debt submitted to Fiscal Service for offset, the creditor agency shall provide the following information:
Delinquent debt information requirements.
For each debt submitted to Fiscal Service for offset, the creditor agency shall provide the following information:
(i) Name and taxpayer identifying number of the person who owes the debt;
(ii) Debtor's address last known to the creditor agency;
(iii) The amount of the debt (including, as applicable, interest, penalties and administrative costs) and the date on which the debt became delinquent;
(iv) The address and telephone number of the contact point within the creditor agency who will handle questions, concerns or communications regarding the debt;
(v) Written certification as required in paragraph (d)(6) of this section; and
(vi) Other information as may be requested by Fiscal Service.
(6) Creditor agency certification. At the time the creditor agency notifies Fiscal Service of a debt for purposes of collection by offset, the creditor agency shall provide, in the manner required by Fiscal Service, written certification to Fiscal Service that:
Creditor agency certification.
At the time the creditor agency notifies Fiscal Service of a debt for purposes of collection by offset, the creditor agency shall provide, in the manner required by Fiscal Service, written certification to Fiscal Service that:
(i) The debt meets the requirements described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section;
(ii) In compliance with 31 U.S.C. 3716, 3720A, 26 U.S.C. 6402, and applicable regulations, the creditor agency has made a reasonable attempt to provide each debtor with:
(A) Written notification, at least sixty days prior to submitting the debt and at the debtor's most current address known to the agency, of the nature and the amount of the debt, the intention of the creditor agency to collect the debt through offset, and an explanation of the rights of the debtor;
(B) An opportunity to inspect and copy the records of the creditor agency with respect to the debt;
(C) An opportunity for a review within the creditor agency of the determination of indebtedness, including the opportunity to present evidence that all or part of the debt is not past-due or legally enforceable;
(D) An opportunity to enter into a written repayment agreement with the creditor agency; and
(E) In the case of Federal employees, an opportunity for a hearing prior to submitting the debt for Federal salary offset. See 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR 550.1104. (See 31 CFR 285.7(d), which describes the authority to waive the salary offset certification as a prerequisite to referring the debt for other types of offsets.)
(iii) For debts outstanding more than ten years on or before June 11, 2009, the notice of intent to offset described in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(A) of this section was sent to the debtor after the debt was outstanding for more than ten years, and that the debtor was afforded the rights described in paragraphs (d)(6)(ii)(B) through (E). This requirement will apply even in a case where notice was also sent prior to the debt being outstanding for ten years but does not apply to any debt that could be collected by offset without regard to any time limitation prior to June 11, 2009.
(iv) The creditor agency has complied with all statutes, regulations, and policies applicable to the creditor agency's assessment of interest, penalties and administrative costs (including, as applicable, 31 U.S.C. 3717), and that the creditor agency has provided a written notice to debtors explaining the creditor agency's requirements concerning any such charges assessed against those debtors;
(v) The individual signing the certification has the delegated authority to execute the certification on behalf of the head of the creditor agency; and
(vi) Such additional information that Fiscal Service may from time to time require in compliance with law, regulation or policy.
(7) Updating certification. After a debt has been submitted to Fiscal Service for purposes of collection by offset, the creditor agency shall provide, at least annually, in the manner and time frames required by Fiscal Service, written certification to Fiscal Service that:
Updating certification.
After a debt has been submitted to Fiscal Service for purposes of collection by offset, the creditor agency shall provide, at least annually, in the manner and time frames required by Fiscal Service, written certification to Fiscal Service that:
(i) The debt continues to meet the requirements described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and
(ii) The creditor agency has properly credited all collections to the debt balance (other than collections received through centralized offset).
(8) Fiscal Service instructions to creditor agencies. Agencies will provide the certification in a form and manner prescribed by Fiscal Service. Fiscal Service will instruct agencies as to the form such written certifications will take and how certifications can be delivered to Fiscal Service, including, but not limited to, the use of electronic data transmission.
Fiscal Service instructions to creditor agencies.
Agencies will provide the certification in a form and manner prescribed by Fiscal Service. Fiscal Service will instruct agencies as to the form such written certifications will take and how certifications can be delivered to Fiscal Service, including, but not limited to, the use of electronic data transmission.
(9) Agencies which are both creditor and disbursing officials. A creditor agency that also designates disbursing officials pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321(c) is not required to certify debts arising out of its operations to Fiscal Service before such agency's disbursing officials offset to collect such claims. This paragraph (d)(9) does not apply to Fiscal Service when it submits debts which it is servicing pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
Agencies which are both creditor and disbursing officials.
A creditor agency that also designates disbursing officials pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321(c) is not required to certify debts arising out of its operations to Fiscal Service before such agency's disbursing officials offset to collect such claims. This paragraph (d)(9) does not apply to Fiscal Service when it submits debts which it is servicing pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
(10) Correcting and updating debt information. (i) When submitting debts for offset, the creditor agency must properly credit all collections, other than collections received from centralized offset.
Correcting and updating debt information.
(i) When submitting debts for offset, the creditor agency must properly credit all collections, other than collections received from centralized offset.
(ii) The creditor agency shall update delinquent debt records, in the manner and time frames required by Fiscal Service, to reflect any amounts credited by the creditor agency to the debtor's account after submission of the debt to Fiscal Service (other than credits for amounts collected by centralized offset).
(iii) The creditor agency may update delinquent debt records to reflect any increases in the amount of the debt submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by offset provided that the creditor agency has complied with the requirements of paragraph (d)(6) of this section with regard to the increased amounts.
(iv) The creditor agency shall notify Fiscal Service immediately of any change in the status of the legal enforceability of the debt—for example, if the creditor agency receives notice that the debtor has filed for bankruptcy protection.
(v) The creditor agency shall notify Fiscal Service if it has returned any monies to the debtor/payee.
(11) Debts at Fiscal Service, a debt collection center, or the Department of Justice. If a creditor agency has transferred a debt to Fiscal Service or a Treasury-designated debt collection center pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 31 CFR 285.12, or if a creditor agency has referred a debt to the Department of Justice for enforced collection, then Fiscal Service, the debt collection center, or the Department of Justice, as the case may be, is responsible for submitting the debt information to Fiscal Service to satisfy the creditor agency's obligations under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6) and this section.
Debts at Fiscal Service, a debt collection center, or the Department of Justice.
If a creditor agency has transferred a debt to Fiscal Service or a Treasury-designated debt collection center pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 31 CFR 285.12, or if a creditor agency has referred a debt to the Department of Justice for enforced collection, then Fiscal Service, the debt collection center, or the Department of Justice, as the case may be, is responsible for submitting the debt information to Fiscal Service to satisfy the creditor agency's obligations under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6) and this section.
(12) Certification of amount to be offset if different than maximum allowed by law. Generally, the amount of an offset will be calculated as set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. If the creditor agency certifies to Fiscal Service that the creditor agency has determined the offset amount allowed by law would result in financial hardship to the debtor and that a lesser offset amount (specified either in dollar amount or as a percentage of the payment) is reasonable and appropriate based on the debtor's financial circumstances, then the disbursing official shall offset such lesser amount specified by the creditor agency.
Certification of amount to be offset if different than maximum allowed by law.
Generally, the amount of an offset will be calculated as set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. If the creditor agency certifies to Fiscal Service that the creditor agency has determined the offset amount allowed by law would result in financial hardship to the debtor and that a lesser offset amount (specified either in dollar amount or as a percentage of the payment) is reasonable and appropriate based on the debtor's financial circumstances, then the disbursing official shall offset such lesser amount specified by the creditor agency.
(13) Duplication of notices not required. Nothing in this section requires any creditor agency to duplicate any notice or opportunity for hearing or review provided to the debtor prior to offset.
Duplication of notices not required.
Nothing in this section requires any creditor agency to duplicate any notice or opportunity for hearing or review provided to the debtor prior to offset.
(e) Payments made by the United States—(1) Payments eligible for offset. Except as set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, all Federal payments are eligible for offset under this section. Eligible Federal payments include, but are not limited to, Federal wage, salary, and retirement payments, vendor and expense reimbursement payments, certain benefit payments, travel advances and reimbursements, grants, fees, refunds, judgments (including those certified for payment pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1304), tax refunds, and other payments made by Federal agencies.
Payments made by the United States
—(1)
Payments eligible for offset.
Except as set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, all Federal payments are eligible for offset under this section. Eligible Federal payments include, but are not limited to, Federal wage, salary, and retirement payments, vendor and expense reimbursement payments, certain benefit payments, travel advances and reimbursements, grants, fees, refunds, judgments (including those certified for payment pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1304), tax refunds, and other payments made by Federal agencies.
(2) Payments excluded from offset under this section. This section does not apply to the following payments:
Payments excluded from offset under this section.
This section does not apply to the following payments:
(i) Black Lung Part C benefit payments, or Railroad Retirement tier 2 payments;
(ii) Payments made under the tariff laws of the United States;
(iii) Veterans Affairs benefit payments to the extent such payments are exempt from offset pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 5301;
(iv) Payments made under any program administered by the Secretary of Education under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 for which payments are certified by the Department of Education;
(v) Payments made under any other Federal law if offset is expressly prohibited by Federal statute;
(vi) Payments made under any program for which the Secretary has granted an exemption in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(3)(B) and paragraph (e)(7) of this section; and
(vii) Federal loan payments other than travel advances.
(3) Specific rules for certain payment types. (i) Specific rules apply with respect to the offset of the following types of payments:
Specific rules for certain payment types.
(i) Specific rules apply with respect to the offset of the following types of payments:
(A) Social Security benefit payments (excluding Supplemental Security Income payments), Black Lung (part B) payments, and Railroad Retirement (other than tier 2) payments to the extent such payments are subject to offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(3)(A) (see 31 CFR 285.4);
(B) Federal salary payments (see 31 CFR 285.7; 5 CFR 550.1101 through 550.1108); and
(C) Tax refund payments (see 31 CFR 285.2).
(ii) This section governs the offset of such payments to the extent that this section is not inconsistent with the special rules that apply for a particular type of payment.
(4) Payments made to joint payees. If a payment is certified to more than one payee (i.e. , joint payees), the entire payment (including a tax refund payment) will be subject to offset for a debt of either payee, unless otherwise prohibited by law or regulation. See 31 CFR 285.2(g) regarding offset of joint tax refunds and claims to return offset funds to the non-debtor, joint payee.
Payments made to joint payees.
If a payment is certified to more than one payee (
i.e.
, joint payees), the entire payment (including a tax refund payment) will be subject to offset for a debt of either payee, unless otherwise prohibited by law or regulation. See 31 CFR 285.2(g) regarding offset of joint tax refunds and claims to return offset funds to the non-debtor, joint payee.
(5) Payments made to representative payees. If a payment is made to a person solely in that person's capacity as a representative payee for another person having the beneficial interest in a payment, the disbursing official shall offset that payment only to collect debts owed by the person having the beneficial interest in the payment. Payment agencies are responsible for identifying representative payees.
Payments made to representative payees.
If a payment is made to a person solely in that person's capacity as a representative payee for another person having the beneficial interest in a payment, the disbursing official shall offset that payment only to collect debts owed by the person having the beneficial interest in the payment. Payment agencies are responsible for identifying representative payees.
(6) Assigned payments. (i) If a person, including a Federal contractor, assigns the right to receive a Federal payment to a third party (the “assignee”), the assigned payment will be subject to offset to collect a delinquent debt owed by the assignee.
Assigned payments.
(i) If a person, including a Federal contractor, assigns the right to receive a Federal payment to a third party (the “assignee”), the assigned payment will be subject to offset to collect a delinquent debt owed by the assignee.
(ii) An assigned payment will also be subject to offset to collect delinquent debts owed by the assignor unless:
(A) In accordance with 41 U.S.C. 15(e)-(f), the payment has been properly assigned to a financial institution pursuant to a Federal contract, the contract contains provisions prohibiting the payment from being reduced or offset for debts owed by the contractor, and the debt arose independently of the contract; or
(B) pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3727, the payment is being made to the assignee as settlement or satisfaction of a claim brought by the assignee against the creditor agency based upon the contract, and the debt of the contractor arises independently of the contract; or
(C) the debtor has properly assigned the right to such payments and the debt arose after the effective date of the assignment.
(7) Payment agency requests for exemptions from centralized offset pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(3)(B)—(i) Means-tested payments. The Secretary will exempt from centralized offset payments made under means-tested programs when requested by the head of the agency making such payments. For purposes of this section “means-tested programs” are those which base eligibility on a determination that the income and/or assets of the beneficiary are inadequate to provide the beneficiary with an adequate standard of living without program assistance.
Payment agency requests for exemptions from centralized offset pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(3)(B)
—(i)
Means-tested payments.
The Secretary will exempt from centralized offset payments made under means-tested programs when requested by the head of the agency making such payments. For purposes of this section “means-tested programs” are those which base eligibility on a determination that the income and/or assets of the beneficiary are inadequate to provide the beneficiary with an adequate standard of living without program assistance.
(ii) Payments made under programs which are not means-tested. Upon written request from the payment agency, the Secretary may exempt classes of payments which are not means-tested. Payment agencies may request that the Secretary exempt 100% of each payment in a payment class or that the Secretary exempt a specific lesser percentage. The Secretary will consider such requests under standards prescribed by the Secretary and published on the Fiscal Service Web site. See www.fiscal.treasury.gov/debt.
Payments made under programs which are not means-tested.
Upon written request from the payment agency, the Secretary may exempt classes of payments which are not means-tested. Payment agencies may request that the Secretary exempt 100% of each payment in a payment class or that the Secretary exempt a specific lesser percentage. The Secretary will consider such requests under standards prescribed by the Secretary and published on the Fiscal Service Web site.
See www.fiscal.treasury.gov/debt.
(iii) Procedures for requesting exemptions. The head of the payment agency must make a request for exemption in writing. The request must comply with the procedures published by Fiscal Service and made available at its Web site. See www.fiscal.treasury.gov/debt.
Procedures for requesting exemptions.
The head of the payment agency must make a request for exemption in writing. The request must comply with the procedures published by Fiscal Service and made available at its Web site.
See www.fiscal.treasury.gov/debt.
(iv) Exemptions apply to classes of payments. The Secretary will only exempt classes of payments. Requests for exemption of individual payments will not be considered.
Exemptions apply to classes of payments.
The Secretary will only exempt classes of payments. Requests for exemption of individual payments will not be considered.
(8) Payment agency responsibilities. (i) Payment agencies shall prepare and submit payment vouchers in the manner prescribed by the disbursing official to ensure that all payments legally eligible for offset will be offset and all payments not eligible will not be offset. Payment agencies shall notify the disbursing agency, in the manner prescribed by Fiscal Service, that a payment is a recurring payment.
Payment agency responsibilities.
(i) Payment agencies shall prepare and submit payment vouchers in the manner prescribed by the disbursing official to ensure that all payments legally eligible for offset will be offset and all payments not eligible will not be offset. Payment agencies shall notify the disbursing agency, in the manner prescribed by Fiscal Service, that a payment is a recurring payment.
(ii) Payment agencies shall also review the nature of payments the agency certifies and notify Fiscal Service of any legal bars to centralized offset of payments.
(9) Payment and disbursing officials have satisfied the obligation underlying the payment. When an offset occurs, the debtor has received payment in full for the underlying obligation represented by the payment. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(2)(A), neither the disbursing official nor the payment agency shall be liable for the amount of the offset on the basis that the underlying obligation was not satisfied. For example, if an agency certifies a payment to a Federal contractor for work completed or services provided, and that payment is offset to collect a delinquent debt that the contractor owes to another Federal agency, the contractor has been paid in full for its services. When the creditor agency credits the offset amount to the contractor's delinquent debt, the contractor has received full value for the services performed under the contract.
Payment and disbursing officials have satisfied the obligation underlying the payment.
When an offset occurs, the debtor has received payment in full for the underlying obligation represented by the payment. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(2)(A), neither the disbursing official nor the payment agency shall be liable for the amount of the offset on the basis that the underlying obligation was not satisfied. For example, if an agency certifies a payment to a Federal contractor for work completed or services provided, and that payment is offset to collect a delinquent debt that the contractor owes to another Federal agency, the contractor has been paid in full for its services. When the creditor agency credits the offset amount to the contractor's delinquent debt, the contractor has received full value for the services performed under the contract.
(f) Offset—(1) When offset occurs. When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), 3720A, and applicable regulations have been met, the disbursing official shall offset the payee's Federal payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the debt owed by the debtor. Offsets will continue until the debt, including any interest, penalties, and administrative costs, is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the creditor agency.
Offset
—(1)
When offset occurs.
When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), 3720A, and applicable regulations have been met, the disbursing official shall offset the payee's Federal payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the debt owed by the debtor. Offsets will continue until the debt, including any interest, penalties, and administrative costs, is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the creditor agency.
(2) Offset amount. (i) Except as otherwise provided in 31 CFR 285.4(e) and 285.7(g) (addressing centralized offset of certain Federal benefit payments and salary payments, respectively), the disbursing official shall offset the lesser of:
Offset amount.
(i) Except as otherwise provided in 31 CFR 285.4(e) and 285.7(g) (addressing centralized offset of certain Federal benefit payments and salary payments, respectively), the disbursing official shall offset the lesser of:
(A) The amount of the payment as shown on the payment record; or
(B) The amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties and administrative costs; or
(C) In the case of retirement annuity payments certified by the Office of Personnel Management, up to twenty-five percent of the amount of the payment as shown on the payment record.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, if a creditor agency has specified another amount, either in dollars or as a percentage of the payment, pursuant to paragraph (d)(15) of this section, the disbursing official shall offset the amount specified by the creditor agency.
(3) Priorities for collecting multiple debts owed by the payee. (i) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall take precedence over deductions under this section.
Priorities for collecting multiple debts owed by the payee.
(i) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall take precedence over deductions under this section.
(ii) When a payment may be offset to collect more than one debt, amounts offset will be applied:
(A) First, to satisfy any past-due support that that the State is collecting under section 464 of the Social Security Act (see 285.1 and 285.3 of this part);
(B) Second, to satisfy any debts owed to Federal agencies, as described in this § 285.5; and
(C) Third, to any debts owed to States for debts other than past-due support (see §§ 285.6 and 285.8 of this part).
(g) Notices—(1) Warning notice by disbursing official to payee/debtor. Before offsetting a recurring payment, the disbursing official, or Fiscal Service on behalf of the disbursing official, will notify the payee in writing when offsets will begin (which may be stated as a number of days or number of payments from the time of the notice) and the anticipated amount of such offset (which may be stated as a percentage of the payment). Such notice shall also provide the information contained in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. Failure to send such notice does not affect the validity of the offset.
Notices
—(1)
Warning notice by disbursing official to payee/debtor.
Before offsetting a recurring payment, the disbursing official, or Fiscal Service on behalf of the disbursing official, will notify the payee in writing when offsets will begin (which may be stated as a number of days or number of payments from the time of the notice) and the anticipated amount of such offset (which may be stated as a percentage of the payment). Such notice shall also provide the information contained in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. Failure to send such notice does not affect the validity of the offset.
(2) No additional warning notice when collections are suspended and resumed. As described in paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section, Fiscal Service may suspend or reduce the application of collections from a recurring payment for one debt when another debt, which is owed by the same debtor and has a higher legal priority, is submitted to Fiscal Service for collection. The disbursing official is not required to send additional warning notices when collections for the lower priority debt resume; however, pursuant to paragraph (g)(3) of this section, each offset will be accompanied by an offset notice, which explains how the offset amounts were applied.
No additional warning notice when collections are suspended and resumed.
As described in paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section, Fiscal Service may suspend or reduce the application of collections from a recurring payment for one debt when another debt, which is owed by the same debtor and has a higher legal priority, is submitted to Fiscal Service for collection. The disbursing official is not required to send additional warning notices when collections for the lower priority debt resume; however, pursuant to paragraph (g)(3) of this section, each offset will be accompanied by an offset notice, which explains how the offset amounts were applied.
(3) Offset notice. When an offset occurs under this section, the disbursing official, or Fiscal Service on behalf of the disbursing official, shall notify the payee in writing that an offset has occurred including:
Offset notice.
When an offset occurs under this section, the disbursing official, or Fiscal Service on behalf of the disbursing official, shall notify the payee in writing that an offset has occurred including:
(i) A description of the payment and the amount of offset taken;
(ii) The identity of the creditor agency requesting the offset; and
(iii) The address and telephone number of the contact point within the creditor agency who will handle concerns regarding the offset.
(h) Notification to creditor and payment agencies. (1) Fiscal Service will notify the creditor agency of all offsets made to collect the creditor agency's debts. Such notification shall include the complete name and taxpayer identifying number of each debtor/payee, the total amounts collected from each debtor/payee's payment, and the amount of any fees charged by Fiscal Service and any other disbursing official conducting offsets. Fiscal Service will not advise the creditor agency of the source of payment from which such amounts were collected.
Notification to creditor and payment agencies.
(1) Fiscal Service will notify the creditor agency of all offsets made to collect the creditor agency's debts. Such notification shall include the complete name and taxpayer identifying number of each debtor/payee, the total amounts collected from each debtor/payee's payment, and the amount of any fees charged by Fiscal Service and any other disbursing official conducting offsets. Fiscal Service will not advise the creditor agency of the source of payment from which such amounts were collected.
(2) When a non-Treasury disbursing official conducts the offset, that disbursing official will transmit to Fiscal Service all of the information necessary for Fiscal Service to send notification under paragraph (h)(1) of this section, including the amount of any fees that the creditor agency is responsible for paying.
(3) Fiscal Service will make available to the payment agency the information contained in the notification of offset, so that the payment agency may direct any questions concerning the claim to the appropriate contact person in the creditor agency.
(i) Disposition of amounts collected. (1) Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section, to the appropriate creditor agency or agencies. Alternatively, Fiscal Service may bill the creditor agency for any fees charged pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section.
Disposition of amounts collected.
(1) Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section, to the appropriate creditor agency or agencies. Alternatively, Fiscal Service may bill the creditor agency for any fees charged pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section.
(2) If Fiscal Service learns from a paying agency that a payment should not have been made, and thus not offset, Fiscal Service will notify the creditor agency. Fiscal Service may deduct the offset amount from future amounts payable to the creditor agency. Alternatively, upon Fiscal Service's request, the creditor agency shall return promptly to the disbursing official an amount equal to the amount of the offset (without regard to whether any other amounts payable to such disbursing official have been paid).
(3) Generally, the disbursing official is not responsible for refunding money to debtors. The creditor agency shall notify Fiscal Service any time the creditor agency returns all or any part of an offset payment to an affected payee. See paragraph (d)(10)(v) of this section. Fiscal Service and the creditor agency shall adjust the debtor records appropriately.
(j) Fees. Fiscal Service may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost of implementing the centralized offset program, including the amount of any fees charged by other disbursing officials conducting an offset under this section. Fiscal Service may deduct the fees from amounts collected by offset or may bill the creditor agencies. Fiscal Service will charge fees only for actual offsets collected.
Fees.
Fiscal Service may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost of implementing the centralized offset program, including the amount of any fees charged by other disbursing officials conducting an offset under this section. Fiscal Service may deduct the fees from amounts collected by offset or may bill the creditor agencies. Fiscal Service will charge fees only for actual offsets collected.
(k) Waiver of certain provisions under the Computer Matching Privacy and Protection Act of 1988. As authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), Fiscal Service, under a delegation of authority from the Secretary, has waived certain requirements of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, Pub. L. No. 100-503, as amended, for matches between delinquent debt records and payment records for offset purposes upon written certification by the head of the creditor agency that the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. Specifically, for administrative offset of Federal payments other than tax refunds, Fiscal Service has waived the requirements for a computer matching agreement contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and for post-match notice and verification contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(p) so long as the creditor agency provides certification to Fiscal Service in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(6) of this section. Such waiver is not necessary for offset of Federal tax refunds, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(8)(B). The Data Integrity Board of the Department of the Treasury shall review and include in reports under 5 U.S.C. 552a(u)(3)(D) a description of the matching activities conducted for centralized offset under this section. No other Data Integrity Board is required to take any action under 5 U.S.C. 552a(u) concerning these computerized comparisons.
Waiver of certain provisions under the Computer Matching Privacy and Protection Act of 1988.
As authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), Fiscal Service, under a delegation of authority from the Secretary, has waived certain requirements of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, Pub. L. No. 100-503, as amended, for matches between delinquent debt records and payment records for offset purposes upon written certification by the head of the creditor agency that the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. Specifically, for administrative offset of Federal payments other than tax refunds, Fiscal Service has waived the requirements for a computer matching agreement contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and for post-match notice and verification contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(p) so long as the creditor agency provides certification to Fiscal Service in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(6) of this section. Such waiver is not necessary for offset of Federal tax refunds, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(8)(B). The Data Integrity Board of the Department of the Treasury shall review and include in reports under 5 U.S.C. 552a(u)(3)(D) a description of the matching activities conducted for centralized offset under this section. No other Data Integrity Board is required to take any action under 5 U.S.C. 552a(u) concerning these computerized comparisons.
(l) Social Security numbers. Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer the Treasury Offset Program, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
Social Security numbers.
Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer the Treasury Offset Program, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
(1) In interoffice and interagency communications;
(2) In notices, including notices to the debtor or payee that an offset has or will occur, when the Social Security number is (or is embedded in) a creditor agency's account number, debt identification number, or debtor identification number;
(3) In response to a request of a debtor or a debtor's representative for records of Fiscal Service's offset activities; and
(4) When required by law.
[[67 FR 78942, Dec. 26, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 7135, Jan. 21, 2005; 74 FR 27433, June 10, 2009; 74 FR 27708, June 11, 2009; 81 FR 1319, Jan. 12, 2016; 87 FR 50248, Aug. 16, 2022]]

§ 285.6   Administrative offset under reciprocal agreements with states.

(a) Scope. (1) This section sets forth the rules that apply to the administrative offset of Federal nontax payments to collect delinquent debts owed to States. As set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(h), States may participate in administrative offset so long as they meet certain requirements, including entering into reciprocal agreements with the Secretary of the Treasury. Such reciprocal agreements may contain any requirements that the Secretary considers appropriate to facilitate offset. Participation in offset under this section is voluntary for both Fiscal Service and the States. This section prescribes the minimum requirements for such reciprocal agreements, including provisions applicable to the offset of State payments, pursuant to State law, to collect delinquent Federal debts. Such offsets are defined in this section as “State payment offsets.”
Scope.
(1) This section sets forth the rules that apply to the administrative offset of Federal nontax payments to collect delinquent debts owed to States. As set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(h), States may participate in administrative offset so long as they meet certain requirements, including entering into reciprocal agreements with the Secretary of the Treasury. Such reciprocal agreements may contain any requirements that the Secretary considers appropriate to facilitate offset. Participation in offset under this section is voluntary for both Fiscal Service and the States. This section prescribes the minimum requirements for such reciprocal agreements, including provisions applicable to the offset of State payments, pursuant to State law, to collect delinquent Federal debts. Such offsets are defined in this section as “State payment offsets.”
(2) This section does not apply to the offset of Federal salary payments, Federal tax refunds (see 31 CFR 285.8), or the collection of past-due support debts (see 31 CFR 285.1 and 285.3).
(b) Definitions. (1) Unless otherwise defined in paragraph § 285.5(b) of this subpart.
Definitions.
(1) Unless otherwise defined in paragraph § 285.5(b) of this subpart.
(2) For purposes of this section:
Administrative offset has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a) and means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee. The term debt in this definition means a State debt.
Administrative offset
has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a) and means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee. The term
debt
in this definition means a State debt.
Debtor means a person who owes a debt to the United States or a State.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt to the United States or a State.
Federal debt means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. The term includes debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government. For purposes of this section, the term “Federal debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), the tariff laws of the United States, or the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), except to the extent provided in sections 204(f) and 1631(b)(4) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 404(f) and 1383(b)(4)(A), respectively) and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c).
Federal debt
means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. The term includes debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government. For purposes of this section, the term “Federal debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), the tariff laws of the United States, or the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), except to the extent provided in sections 204(f) and 1631(b)(4) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 404(f) and 1383(b)(4)(A), respectively) and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c).
Offset means withholding funds payable to a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
Offset
means withholding funds payable to a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
Participating State means a State that has entered into a reciprocal agreement under this section.
Participating State
means a State that has entered into a reciprocal agreement under this section.
Reciprocal agreement means a written agreement between Fiscal Service and a State, entered into pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(h), which provides for administrative offset and State payment offset.
Reciprocal agreement
means a written agreement between Fiscal Service and a State, entered into pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(h), which provides for administrative offset and State payment offset.
State has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3701(b)(2) and includes the several states of the United States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State
has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3701(b)(2) and includes the several states of the United States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State debt means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate State official to be owed to that State by a person, organization, or entity, except the United States, a foreign sovereign, or another State (including local governments within a State). For purposes of this rule, the term includes debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the State.
State debt
means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate State official to be owed to that State by a person, organization, or entity, except the United States, a foreign sovereign, or another State (including local governments within a State). For purposes of this rule, the term includes debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the State.
State payment offset means withholding funds payable by a State to, or held by a State for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee to the United States.
State payment offset
means withholding funds payable by a State to, or held by a State for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee to the United States.
(c) General rule. Fiscal Service and other disbursing officials of the Federal Government will conduct administrative offset to collect past-due State debts certified to Fiscal Service, and participating States will conduct State payment offset to collect delinquent Federal debts in accordance with the terms of reciprocal agreements entered into between the States and Fiscal Service, acting on behalf of the Secretary. Upon notification of a delinquent State debt from a participating State to Fiscal Service, disbursing officials of the United States shall offset the Federal payments specified in the reciprocal agreement to collect the State debt. The amount offset, minus an offset fee, shall be forwarded to the State to be distributed in accordance with applicable laws and procedures. Upon notification of a delinquent Federal debt from Fiscal Service to a participating State, authorized officials of the participating State shall conduct State payment offset as specified in the applicable reciprocal agreement to collect the Federal debt.
General rule.
Fiscal Service and other disbursing officials of the Federal Government will conduct administrative offset to collect past-due State debts certified to Fiscal Service, and participating States will conduct State payment offset to collect delinquent Federal debts in accordance with the terms of reciprocal agreements entered into between the States and Fiscal Service, acting on behalf of the Secretary. Upon notification of a delinquent State debt from a participating State to Fiscal Service, disbursing officials of the United States shall offset the Federal payments specified in the reciprocal agreement to collect the State debt. The amount offset, minus an offset fee, shall be forwarded to the State to be distributed in accordance with applicable laws and procedures. Upon notification of a delinquent Federal debt from Fiscal Service to a participating State, authorized officials of the participating State shall conduct State payment offset as specified in the applicable reciprocal agreement to collect the Federal debt.
(d) Reciprocal agreements. (1) Fiscal Service may enter into reciprocal agreements with States for administrative offset and State payment offset. The agreements shall contain any requirements which Fiscal Service considers appropriate to facilitate the offset and prevent duplicative efforts, and shall require States to prescribe procedures governing the collection of delinquent State debts which are substantially similar to requirements imposed on Federal agencies pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(b). States may prescribe such procedures through legislation or regulations, as deemed appropriate by State officials. States which have entered into a reciprocal agreement with Fiscal Service pursuant to this section may thereafter request, in the manner prescribed in the reciprocal agreement, that administrative offsets be performed. Such requests shall be made by the appropriate State disbursing official, which, for purposes of this section, means an appropriate official of the State agency that is responsible for collecting the State debt. Reciprocal agreements must be signed by a State official authorized to enter into such agreements.
Reciprocal agreements.
(1) Fiscal Service may enter into reciprocal agreements with States for administrative offset and State payment offset. The agreements shall contain any requirements which Fiscal Service considers appropriate to facilitate the offset and prevent duplicative efforts, and shall require States to prescribe procedures governing the collection of delinquent State debts which are substantially similar to requirements imposed on Federal agencies pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(b). States may prescribe such procedures through legislation or regulations, as deemed appropriate by State officials. States which have entered into a reciprocal agreement with Fiscal Service pursuant to this section may thereafter request, in the manner prescribed in the reciprocal agreement, that administrative offsets be performed. Such requests shall be made by the appropriate State disbursing official, which, for purposes of this section, means an appropriate official of the State agency that is responsible for collecting the State debt. Reciprocal agreements must be signed by a State official authorized to enter into such agreements.
(2) Once Fiscal Service has entered into a reciprocal agreement with a State pursuant to this section, Fiscal Service may request that the State perform State payment offsets to collect delinquent Federal debts in accordance with the terms of the reciprocal agreement.
(3) A duly executed reciprocal agreement is required before a State may request an administrative offset pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(h).
(e) Requirements for submitting State debts for administrative offset—(1) Debt eligibility. A State debt submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset must meet the debt eligibility requirements of 31 CFR 285.5(d)(3)(i).
Requirements for submitting State debts for administrative offset
—(1)
Debt eligibility.
A State debt submitted to Fiscal Service for collection by administrative offset must meet the debt eligibility requirements of 31 CFR 285.5(d)(3)(i).
(2) Certification. At the time a participating State notifies Fiscal Service of a State debt for purposes of collection by administrative offset under this section, the State shall comply with the certification requirements set forth in paragraph 31 CFR 285.5(d)(6) with the following two exceptions:
Certification.
At the time a participating State notifies Fiscal Service of a State debt for purposes of collection by administrative offset under this section, the State shall comply with the certification requirements set forth in paragraph 31 CFR 285.5(d)(6) with the following two exceptions:
(i) Paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(E)—Federal salary offset; and
(ii) Paragraph (d)(6)(iii)—Federal requirements for the assessment of interest and penalties to Federal debts. Additionally, with respect to paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of § 285.5, States shall only be required to certify that they have complied with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716 (not 31 U.S.C. 3720A or 26 U.S.C. 6402) and this section 285.6. States shall also certify that they have complied with any requirements imposed by State law or procedure that may be applicable to administrative offset.
(f) State debts submitted to Fiscal Service for tax refund offset. A State shall be deemed to have complied with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section with respect to any State debt that the State certified to Treasury for collection pursuant to § 285.8 of this part.
State debts submitted to Fiscal Service for tax refund offset.
A State shall be deemed to have complied with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section with respect to any State debt that the State certified to Treasury for collection pursuant to § 285.8 of this part.
(g) Federal Payments subject to administrative offset under this section. (1) The Federal payments that will be offset to collect a participating State's debts shall be set forth in the reciprocal agreement. Federal payments that are excluded from administrative offset under this section include:
Federal Payments subject to administrative offset under this section.
(1) The Federal payments that will be offset to collect a participating State's debts shall be set forth in the reciprocal agreement. Federal payments that are excluded from administrative offset under this section include:
(i) Any payments described in 31 CFR 285.5(e)(2) “Payments excluded from offset”;
(ii) Payments due to an individual under the Social Security Act;
(iii) Payments due an individual pursuant to part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act;
(iv) Payments due an individual pursuant to any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board;
(v) Federal tax refunds; and
(vi) Federal salary payments.
(h) Conducting the administrative offset. (1) Disbursing officials shall conduct administrative offset under this section in the same manner as set forth in 31 CFR 285.5(f) through (i).
Conducting the administrative offset.
(1) Disbursing officials shall conduct administrative offset under this section in the same manner as set forth in 31 CFR 285.5(f) through (i).
(2) When a payee owes more than one delinquent State debt which has been referred to Fiscal Service for collection, amounts will be applied to delinquent State debts under this section after any amounts offset pursuant to any other section of this subpart A and any amounts levied pursuant 26 U.S.C. 6331.
(i) Liability of disbursing officials and payment agencies. Neither the Federal disbursing official nor the agency authorizing the Federal payment shall be liable to a debtor for the amount of the administrative offset on the basis that the underlying obligation, represented by the payment before the administrative offset was taken, was not satisfied.
Liability of disbursing officials and payment agencies.
Neither the Federal disbursing official nor the agency authorizing the Federal payment shall be liable to a debtor for the amount of the administrative offset on the basis that the underlying obligation, represented by the payment before the administrative offset was taken, was not satisfied.
(j) Notification to a State of Federal debt. (1) A State may set forth in the reciprocal agreement the requirements for Fiscal Service to follow when submitting a Federal debt for collection by State payment offset. Such agreements shall set forth all requirements contained in State law for the State payment offset. Such requirements, however, may not exceed the requirements for collecting Federal debts by administrative offset as set forth in § 285.5(d) of this subpart.
Notification to a State of Federal debt.
(1) A State may set forth in the reciprocal agreement the requirements for Fiscal Service to follow when submitting a Federal debt for collection by State payment offset. Such agreements shall set forth all requirements contained in State law for the State payment offset. Such requirements, however, may not exceed the requirements for collecting Federal debts by administrative offset as set forth in § 285.5(d) of this subpart.
(2) Fiscal Service shall certify to a participating State that each debt Fiscal Service submits for State payment offset has been certified by the Federal creditor agency to be delinquent, valid, and legally enforceable in the amount stated, and that the Federal creditor agency owed the debt has complied with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) prior to submitting the debt for offset.
(k) Conducting State payment offset. (1) An official of a participating State shall conduct State payment offset pursuant to the laws and regulations of the participating State; provided that:
Conducting State payment offset.
(1) An official of a participating State shall conduct State payment offset pursuant to the laws and regulations of the participating State; provided that:
(i) If a payment is owed jointly to more than one payee, the entire payment shall be offset for a debt of either payee, unless otherwise prohibited by law or regulation; and
(ii) If a payment is made to a person solely in that person's capacity as a representative payee for another person having the beneficial interest in the payment, the disbursing official shall offset that payment only to collect debts owed by the person having the beneficial interest in the payment.
(2) Any prohibitions on offsetting a joint payment described in paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section shall be set forth in the reciprocal agreement.
(3) An official of the participating State shall notify the payee of the State payment offset. The reciprocal agreement may contain detailed guidance and procedures regarding sending such notice, but shall, at a minimum require that the notice inform the payee of:
(i) The type and amount of the payment that was offset;
(ii) The identity of the Federal agency that requested the offset; and
(iii) A contact point within the Federal agency that will handle concerns regarding the offset.
(l) Limitations. A debt properly submitted to Fiscal Service or the State for administrative offset or State payment offset shall remain subject to collection until withdrawn by the entity that submitted the debt for collection, provided the debt remains past-due and legally enforceable for purposes of administrative offset or State payment offset, as applicable. A debt which has been reduced to a judgment shall remain legally enforceable for purposes of administrative offset and State payment offset for as long as the judgment remains enforceable against the debtor.
Limitations.
A debt properly submitted to Fiscal Service or the State for administrative offset or State payment offset shall remain subject to collection until withdrawn by the entity that submitted the debt for collection, provided the debt remains past-due and legally enforceable for purposes of administrative offset or State payment offset, as applicable. A debt which has been reduced to a judgment shall remain legally enforceable for purposes of administrative offset and State payment offset for as long as the judgment remains enforceable against the debtor.
(m) Fees. Fiscal Service shall deduct a fee from each administrative offset and State payment offset amount before transferring the balance of the offset funds to the State or Federal agency owed the debt. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(4), the fee will be in an amount that Fiscal Service has determined to be sufficient to reimburse Fiscal Service for the full cost of the offset procedure. Fiscal Service will notify the States and creditor agencies, annually and in advance, of the amount of the fee Fiscal Service will charge for each offset.
Fees.
Fiscal Service shall deduct a fee from each administrative offset and State payment offset amount before transferring the balance of the offset funds to the State or Federal agency owed the debt. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(4), the fee will be in an amount that Fiscal Service has determined to be sufficient to reimburse Fiscal Service for the full cost of the offset procedure. Fiscal Service will notify the States and creditor agencies, annually and in advance, of the amount of the fee Fiscal Service will charge for each offset.
(n) Social Security numbers. Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer administrative offset, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
Social Security numbers.
Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer administrative offset, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
(1) In interoffice and interagency communications;
(2) In notices, including notices to the debtor or payee that an offset has or will occur, when the Social Security number is (or is embedded in) a creditor agency's account number, debt identification number, or debtor identification number;
(3) In response to a request of a debtor or a debtor's representative for records of Fiscal Service's offset activities; and
(4) When required by law.
[[72 FR 1286, Jan. 11, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 56721, Nov. 3, 2009; 87 FR 50248, Aug. 16, 2022]]

§ 285.7   Salary offset.

(a) Purpose and scope. (1) This section establishes Fiscal Service's procedures for the centralized offset of Federal salary payments to collect delinquent nontax debts owed to the United States. This process is known as centralized salary offset. Rules issued by the Office of Personnel Management contain the requirements Federal agencies must follow prior to conducting centralized or non-centralized salary offset and the procedures for requesting offsets directly from a paying agency, rather than through TOP. See 5 CFR 550.1101 through 550.1108.
Purpose and scope.
(1) This section establishes Fiscal Service's procedures for the centralized offset of Federal salary payments to collect delinquent nontax debts owed to the United States. This process is known as centralized salary offset. Rules issued by the Office of Personnel Management contain the requirements Federal agencies must follow prior to conducting centralized or non-centralized salary offset and the procedures for requesting offsets directly from a paying agency, rather than through TOP. See 5 CFR 550.1101 through 550.1108.
(2) This section implements the requirement under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1) that all Federal agencies, using a process known as centralized salary offset computer matching, identify Federal employees who owe delinquent nontax debt to the United States. Centralized salary offset computer matching is the computerized comparison of delinquent debt records with records of Federal employees. The purpose of centralized salary offset computer matching is to identify those debtors whose Federal salaries should be offset to collect delinquent debts owed to the Federal Government.
(3) This section specifies the delinquent debt records and Federal employee records that must be included in the salary offset matching process. For purposes of this section, delinquent debt records consist of the debt information submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for purposes of administrative offset as required under 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6). Agencies that submit their debt to Fiscal Service for purposes of administrative offset are not required to submit duplicate information for purposes of centralized salary offset computer matching under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this section.
(4) This section establishes an interagency consortium to implement centralized salary offset computer matching on a government-wide basis as required under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1).
(5) The receipt of collections from salary offsets does not preclude a creditor agency from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of other Federal payments to satisfy delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States. A creditor agency should pursue, when deemed appropriate by such agency, such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with salary offset.
(6) This section does not govern the centralized offset of final salary payments or lump-sum payments made to employees who have left an agency's employ. The centralized offset of such payments is governed by § 285.5 of this part.
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Administrative offset means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
Administrative offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the payee.
Agency means a department, agency or subagency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal government, including government corporations.
Agency
means a department, agency or subagency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal government, including government corporations.
Centralized salary offset computer matching means the computerized comparison of Federal employee records with delinquent debt records to identify Federal employees who owe such debts.
Centralized salary offset computer matching
means the computerized comparison of Federal employee records with delinquent debt records to identify Federal employees who owe such debts.
Creditor agency means any agency that is owed a debt.
Creditor agency
means any agency that is owed a debt.
Debt means any amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person, including debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government. For purposes of this section, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C.).
Debt
means any amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person, including debt administered by a third party acting as an agent for the Federal Government. For purposes of this section, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C.).
Delinquent debt record means information about a past-due, legally enforceable debt, submitted by a creditor agency to Fiscal Service for purposes of administrative offset (including salary offset) in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716 and applicable regulations. Debt information includes the amount and type of debt and the debtor's name, address, and taxpayer identifying number.
Delinquent debt record
means information about a past-due, legally enforceable debt, submitted by a creditor agency to Fiscal Service for purposes of administrative offset (including salary offset) in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716 and applicable regulations. Debt information includes the amount and type of debt and the debtor's name, address, and taxpayer identifying number.
Disbursing official means an officer or employee designated to disburse Federal salary payments. This section applies to all disbursing officials of Federal salary payments, including but not limited to, disbursing officials of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, any government corporation, and any disbursing official of the United States designated by the Secretary.
Disbursing official
means an officer or employee designated to disburse Federal salary payments. This section applies to all disbursing officials of Federal salary payments, including but not limited to, disbursing officials of the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, any government corporation, and any disbursing official of the United States designated by the Secretary.
Disposable pay has the same meaning as that term is defined in 5 CFR 550.1103.
Disposable pay
has the same meaning as that term is defined in 5 CFR 550.1103.
Federal employee means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves), employees of the United States Postal Service, and seasonal and temporary employees.
Federal employee
means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves), employees of the United States Postal Service, and seasonal and temporary employees.
Federal employee records means records of Federal salary payments that a paying agency has certified to a disbursing official for disbursement.
Federal employee records
means records of Federal salary payments that a paying agency has certified to a disbursing official for disbursement.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Paying agency means the agency that employs the Federal employee who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his or her current pay. A paying agency also includes an agency that performs payroll services on behalf of the employing agency.
Paying agency
means the agency that employs the Federal employee who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his or her current pay. A paying agency also includes an agency that performs payroll services on behalf of the employing agency.
Salary offset means administrative offset to collect a debt owed by a Federal employee from the current pay account of the employee.
Salary offset
means administrative offset to collect a debt owed by a Federal employee from the current pay account of the employee.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegate.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegate.
Taxpayer identifying number means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number is the individual's social security number.
Taxpayer identifying number
means the identifying number described under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109). For an individual, the taxpayer identifying number is the individual's social security number.
(c) Establishment of the consortium. As required by the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), by issuance of this section, the Secretary establishes an interagency consortium to implement centralized salary offset computer matching. The consortium initially includes all agencies that disburse Federal salary payments, including but not limited to, Fiscal Service, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, government corporations, and agencies with Treasury-designated disbursing officials. The membership of the consortium may be changed at the discretion of the Secretary, and the Secretary will be responsible for the ongoing coordination of the activities of the consortium.
Establishment of the consortium.
As required by the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), by issuance of this section, the Secretary establishes an interagency consortium to implement centralized salary offset computer matching. The consortium initially includes all agencies that disburse Federal salary payments, including but not limited to, Fiscal Service, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, government corporations, and agencies with Treasury-designated disbursing officials. The membership of the consortium may be changed at the discretion of the Secretary, and the Secretary will be responsible for the ongoing coordination of the activities of the consortium.
(d) Creditor agency participation. (1) As required under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), creditor agencies shall participate at least annually in centralized salary offset computer matching. By notifying Fiscal Service of all past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for more than 120 days for purposes of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6), creditor agencies shall have met the requirement set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1). Additionally, creditor agencies may notify Fiscal Service of past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for less than 120 days for purposes of centralized offset.
Creditor agency participation.
(1) As required under 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1), creditor agencies shall participate at least annually in centralized salary offset computer matching. By notifying Fiscal Service of all past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for more than 120 days for purposes of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6), creditor agencies shall have met the requirement set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1). Additionally, creditor agencies may notify Fiscal Service of past-due, legally enforceable debts delinquent for less than 120 days for purposes of centralized offset.
(2) Prior to submitting debts to Fiscal Service for purposes of administrative offset (including salary offset) and centralized salary offset computer matching, Federal agencies shall prescribe regulations in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716 (administrative offset) and 5 U.S.C. 5514 (salary offset).
(3) Prior to submitting a debt to Fiscal Service for purposes of collection by administrative offset, including salary offset, creditor agencies shall provide written certification to Fiscal Service that:
(i) The debt is past-due and legally enforceable in the amount submitted to Fiscal Service and that the creditor agency will ensure that collections (other than collections through offset) are properly credited to the debt;
(ii) The creditor agency has complied with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716 (administrative offset) and related regulations including, but not limited to, the provisions requiring that the creditor agency provide the debtor with applicable notices and opportunities for a review of the debt; and
(iii) The creditor agency has complied with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514 (salary offset) and related regulations including, but not limited to, the provisions requiring that the creditor agency provide the debtor with applicable notices and opportunities for a hearing.
(4) The creditor agency is not required to submit the certification set forth in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section prior to submitting a debt to Fiscal Service. However, if the creditor agency does not provide such certification initially, the creditor agency shall provide the Federal employee with the notices and opportunity for a hearing, as required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations, and shall make the necessary certification before the disbursing official offsets a salary payment pursuant to this section. A creditor agency may submit a debt without the requirement set forth in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, only if the creditor agency intends to complete the certification after complying with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and applicable regulations.
(5) The creditor agency shall notify Fiscal Service immediately of any payments credited by the creditor agency to the debtor's account, other than credits for amounts collected by offset, after submission of the debt to Fiscal Service. The creditor agency also shall notify Fiscal Service immediately of any change in the status of the legal enforceability of the debt, for example, if the creditor agency receives notice that the debtor has filed for bankruptcy protection.
(6) Creditor agencies may submit nontax debts to Fiscal Service for collection by centralized salary offset irrespective of the amount of time the debt has been outstanding. Accordingly, all nontax debts, including debts that were outstanding for ten years or longer prior to June 11, 2009, may be collected by centralized salary offset.
(7) For debts that were outstanding more than ten years on or before June 11, 2009, creditor agencies must certify to Fiscal Service that the notice described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section was sent to the debtor after the debt was outstanding for ten years. This requirement will apply even in a case where notice was also sent prior to the debt being outstanding for ten years but does not apply to any debt that could be collected by offset without regard to any time limitation prior to June 11, 2009.
(e) Centralized salary offset computer match. (1) Delinquent debt records will be compared with Federal employee records maintained by members of the consortium or paying agencies. The records will be compared to identify Federal employees who owe delinquent debts for purposes of collecting the debt by administrative offset. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number and name of a Federal employee are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of a debtor.
Centralized salary offset computer match.
(1) Delinquent debt records will be compared with Federal employee records maintained by members of the consortium or paying agencies. The records will be compared to identify Federal employees who owe delinquent debts for purposes of collecting the debt by administrative offset. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number and name of a Federal employee are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name of a debtor.
(2) As authorized by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), Fiscal Service, under a delegation of authority from the Secretary, has waived certain requirements of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, for administrative offset, including salary offset, upon written certification by the head of the creditor agency that the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. Specifically, Fiscal Service has waived the requirements for a computer matching agreement contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and for post-match notice and verification contained in 5 U.S.C. 552a(p). The creditor agency will provide certification in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section.
(f) Salary offset. When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset have been met, as required by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c) the disbursing official shall offset the Federal employee's salary payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the debt owed by the employee. Alternatively, the paying agency, on behalf of the disbursing official, may deduct the amount of the offset from an employee's disposable pay before the employee's salary payment is certified to a disbursing official for disbursement. The salary paying agency shall use such records as it deems necessary to accurately calculate disposable pay in accordance with 5 CFR 550.1103.
Salary offset.
When a match occurs and all other requirements for offset have been met, as required by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716(c) the disbursing official shall offset the Federal employee's salary payment to satisfy, in whole or part, the debt owed by the employee. Alternatively, the paying agency, on behalf of the disbursing official, may deduct the amount of the offset from an employee's disposable pay before the employee's salary payment is certified to a disbursing official for disbursement. The salary paying agency shall use such records as it deems necessary to accurately calculate disposable pay in accordance with 5 CFR 550.1103.
(g) Offset amount. (1) The amount offset from a salary payment under this section shall be the lesser of:
Offset amount.
(1) The amount offset from a salary payment under this section shall be the lesser of:
(i) The amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties and administrative costs; or
(ii) An amount up to 15% of the debtor's disposable pay.
(2) Alternatively, the amount offset may be an amount agreed upon, in writing, by the debtor and the creditor agency.
(3) Offsets will continue until the debt, including any interest, penalties, and costs, is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the creditor agency.
(h) Priorities. (1) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall take precedence over other deductions under this section.
Priorities.
(1) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall take precedence over other deductions under this section.
(2) When a salary payment may be reduced to collect more than one debt, amounts offset under this section will be applied to a debt only after amounts have been applied to satisfy past-due support debts being collected by the State pursuant to Section 464 of the Social Security Act.
(i) Notice. (1) Before offsetting a salary payment, the disbursing official, or the paying agency on behalf of the disbursing official, shall notify the Federal employee in writing of the date deductions from salary will commence and of the amount of such deductions.
Notice.
(1) Before offsetting a salary payment, the disbursing official, or the paying agency on behalf of the disbursing official, shall notify the Federal employee in writing of the date deductions from salary will commence and of the amount of such deductions.
(2)(i) When an offset occurs under this section, the disbursing official, or the paying agency on behalf of the disbursing official, shall notify the Federal employee in writing that an offset has occurred including:
(A) A description of the payment and the amount of offset taken;
(B) The identity of the creditor agency requesting the offset; and,
(C) A contact point within the creditor agency that will handle concerns regarding the offset.
(ii) The information described in paragraphs (i)(2)(i)(B) and (i)(2)(i)(C) of this section does not need to be provided to the Federal employee when the offset occurs if such information was included in a prior notice from the disbursing official or paying agency.
(3) The disbursing official will advise each creditor agency of the names, mailing addresses, and taxpayer identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts of past-due, legally enforceable debt were collected and of the amounts collected from each debtor for that agency. The disbursing official will not advise the creditor agency of the source of payment from which such amounts were collected.
(j) Fees. Agencies that perform centralized salary offset computer matching services may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost for such services. In addition, Fiscal Service, or a paying agency acting on behalf of Fiscal Service, may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost of implementing the administrative offset program. Fiscal Service may deduct the fees from amounts collected by offset or may bill the creditor agencies. Fees charged for offset shall be based on actual administrative offsets completed.
Fees.
Agencies that perform centralized salary offset computer matching services may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost for such services. In addition, Fiscal Service, or a paying agency acting on behalf of Fiscal Service, may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost of implementing the administrative offset program. Fiscal Service may deduct the fees from amounts collected by offset or may bill the creditor agencies. Fees charged for offset shall be based on actual administrative offsets completed.
(k) Disposition of amounts collected. The disbursing official conducting the offset will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (j) of this section, to the appropriate creditor agency. If an erroneous offset payment is made to a creditor agency, the disbursing official will notify the creditor agency that an erroneous offset payment has been made. The disbursing official may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to the creditor agency. Alternatively, upon the disbursing official's request, the creditor agency shall return promptly to the disbursing official or the affected payee an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (without regard to whether any other amounts payable to such agency have been paid). The disbursing official and the creditor agency shall adjust the debtor records appropriately.
Disposition of amounts collected.
The disbursing official conducting the offset will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (j) of this section, to the appropriate creditor agency. If an erroneous offset payment is made to a creditor agency, the disbursing official will notify the creditor agency that an erroneous offset payment has been made. The disbursing official may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to the creditor agency. Alternatively, upon the disbursing official's request, the creditor agency shall return promptly to the disbursing official or the affected payee an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (without regard to whether any other amounts payable to such agency have been paid). The disbursing official and the creditor agency shall adjust the debtor records appropriately.
[[63 FR 23357, Apr. 28, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 22789, May 3, 2005; 74 FR 27433, June 10, 2009; 74 FR 27708, June 11, 2009; 81 FR 1319, Jan. 12, 2016]]

§ 285.8   Offset of tax refund payments to collect certain debts owed to States.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Debt means past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt unless otherwise indicated.
Debt
means past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt unless otherwise indicated.
Debtor means a person who owes a debt.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
IRS means the Internal Revenue Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
IRS
means the Internal Revenue Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation means a debt which resulted from:
Past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation
means a debt which resulted from:
(1) A judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction which has determined an amount of State income tax to be due,
(2) A determination after an administrative hearing which has determined an amount of state income tax to be due and which is no longer subject to judicial review, or
(3) A State income tax assessment (including self-assessments) which has become final in accordance with State law but not collected and which has not been delinquent for more than 10 years.
State means the several States of the United States. The term “State” also includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State
means the several States of the United States. The term “State” also includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State income tax obligation means State income tax obligations as determined under State law. For purposes of this section, State income tax obligation includes any local income tax administered by the chief tax administration agency of the State.
State income tax obligation
means State income tax obligations as determined under State law. For purposes of this section, State income tax obligation includes any local income tax administered by the chief tax administration agency of the State.
Tax refund offset means withholding or reducing a tax refund overpayment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s).
Tax refund offset
means withholding or reducing a tax refund overpayment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s).
Tax refund payment means any overpayment of Federal taxes to be refunded to the person making the overpayment after the IRS makes the appropriate credits as provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402(a) and 26 CFR 6402-3(a)(6)(i) for any liabilities for any Federal tax on the part of the person who made the overpayment.
Tax refund payment
means any overpayment of Federal taxes to be refunded to the person making the overpayment after the IRS makes the appropriate credits as provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402(a) and 26 CFR 6402-3(a)(6)(i) for any liabilities for any Federal tax on the part of the person who made the overpayment.
Unemployment compensation debt has the same meaning as the term “covered unemployment debt” as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6402(f)(4), and means—
Unemployment compensation debt
has the same meaning as the term “covered unemployment debt” as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6402(f)(4), and means—
(1) A past-due debt for erroneous payment of unemployment compensation due to fraud or the person's failure to report earnings which has become final under the law of a State certified by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 3304 and which remains uncollected;
(2) Contributions due to the unemployment fund of a State for which the State has determined the person to be liable and which remain uncollected; and
(3) Any penalties and interest assessed on such debt.
(b) General rule. (1) Fiscal Service will offset tax refunds to collect debt under this section in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) and (f) and this section.
General rule.
(1) Fiscal Service will offset tax refunds to collect debt under this section in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) and (f) and this section.
(2) Fiscal Service will compare tax refund payment records, as certified by the IRS, with records of debts submitted to Fiscal Service. A match will occur when the taxpayer identifying number (as that term is used in 26 U.S.C. 6109) and name on a payment certification record are the same as the taxpayer identifying number and name (or derivative of the name) on a delinquent debt record. When a match occurs and all other requirements for tax refund offset have been met, Fiscal Service will reduce the amount of any tax refund payment payable to a debtor by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt owed by the debtor. Any amounts not offset will be paid to the payee(s) listed in the payment certification record.
(3) Fiscal Service will only offset a tax refund payment for a State income tax obligation if the address shown on the Federal tax return for the taxable year of the overpayment is an address within the State seeking the offset.
(c) Notification of past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligations or unemployment compensation debts—(1) Notification. States shall notify Fiscal Service of debts in the manner and format prescribed by Fiscal Service. The notification of liability must be accompanied by a certification that the debt is past due and legally enforceable and that the State has complied with the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and with all Federal or State requirements applicable to the collection of debts under this section. With respect to State income tax obligations only, the certification must specifically state that none of the debts submitted for collection by offset are debts owed by an individual who has claimed immunity from State taxation by reason of being an enrolled member of an Indian tribe who lives on a reservation and derives all of his or her income from that reservation unless such claim has been adjudicated de novo on its merits in accordance with paragraph (c)(3). Fiscal Service may reject a notification that does not comply with the requirements of this section. Upon notification of the rejection and the reason for rejection, the State may resubmit a corrected notification.
Notification of past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligations or unemployment compensation debts
—(1)
Notification.
States shall notify Fiscal Service of debts in the manner and format prescribed by Fiscal Service. The notification of liability must be accompanied by a certification that the debt is past due and legally enforceable and that the State has complied with the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and with all Federal or State requirements applicable to the collection of debts under this section. With respect to State income tax obligations only, the certification must specifically state that none of the debts submitted for collection by offset are debts owed by an individual who has claimed immunity from State taxation by reason of being an enrolled member of an Indian tribe who lives on a reservation and derives all of his or her income from that reservation unless such claim has been adjudicated de novo on its merits in accordance with paragraph (c)(3). Fiscal Service may reject a notification that does not comply with the requirements of this section. Upon notification of the rejection and the reason for rejection, the State may resubmit a corrected notification.
(2) Minimum amount of past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligations that may be submitted. Fiscal Service only will accept notification of past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligations of $25 or more or such higher amounts as determined by Fiscal Service. States will be notified annually of any changes in the minimum debt amount.
(3)(i) Advance notification to the debtor of the State's intent to collect by Federal tax refund offset. The State is required to provide a written notification to the debtor informing the debtor that the State intends to refer the debt for collection by tax refund offset. The notice must give the debtor at least 60 days to present evidence, in accordance with procedures established by the State, that all or part of the debt is not past due or not legally enforceable, or, in the case of a covered unemployment compensation debt, the debt is not due to fraud or the debtor's failure to report earnings. In the case of a State income tax obligation, the notice must be sent certified mail, return receipt requested.
Advance notification to the debtor of the State's intent to collect by Federal tax refund offset.
The State is required to provide a written notification to the debtor informing the debtor that the State intends to refer the debt for collection by tax refund offset. The notice must give the debtor at least 60 days to present evidence, in accordance with procedures established by the State, that all or part of the debt is not past due or not legally enforceable, or, in the case of a covered unemployment compensation debt, the debt is not due to fraud or the debtor's failure to report earnings. In the case of a State income tax obligation, the notice must be sent certified mail, return receipt requested.
(ii) Determination. The State must, in accordance with procedures established by the State, consider any evidence presented by a debtor in response to the notice described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and determine whether an amount of such debt is past due and legally enforceable and, in the case of a covered unemployment compensation debt, the debt is due to fraud or the debtor's failure to report earnings. With respect to State income tax obligations only, where the debtor claims that he or she is immune from State taxation by reason of being an enrolled member of an Indian tribe who lives on a reservation and derives all of his or her income from that reservation, State procedures shall include de novo review on the merits, unless such claims have been previously adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction. States shall, upon request from the Secretary of the Treasury, make such procedures available to the Secretary of the Treasury for review.
Determination.
The State must, in accordance with procedures established by the State, consider any evidence presented by a debtor in response to the notice described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and determine whether an amount of such debt is past due and legally enforceable and, in the case of a covered unemployment compensation debt, the debt is due to fraud or the debtor's failure to report earnings. With respect to State income tax obligations only, where the debtor claims that he or she is immune from State taxation by reason of being an enrolled member of an Indian tribe who lives on a reservation and derives all of his or her income from that reservation, State procedures shall include de novo review on the merits, unless such claims have been previously adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction. States shall, upon request from the Secretary of the Treasury, make such procedures available to the Secretary of the Treasury for review.
(iii) Reasonable efforts. Prior to submitting a debt to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset the State must make reasonable efforts to collect the debt. Reasonable efforts include making written demand on the debtor for payment and complying with any other prerequisites to offset established by the State.
Reasonable efforts.
Prior to submitting a debt to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset the State must make reasonable efforts to collect the debt. Reasonable efforts include making written demand on the debtor for payment and complying with any other prerequisites to offset established by the State.
(4) Correcting and updating notification. The State shall, in the manner and in the time frames provided by Fiscal Service, notify Fiscal Service of any deletion or decrease in the amount of past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt referred to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset. The State may notify Fiscal Service of any increases in the amount of the debt referred to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset provided that the State has complied with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section with regard to those debts.
Correcting and updating notification.
The State shall, in the manner and in the time frames provided by Fiscal Service, notify Fiscal Service of any deletion or decrease in the amount of past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt referred to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset. The State may notify Fiscal Service of any increases in the amount of the debt referred to Fiscal Service for collection by tax refund offset provided that the State has complied with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section with regard to those debts.
(d) Priorities for offset. (1) As provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402, a tax refund payment shall be reduced first by the amount of any past-due support being enforced under section 464 of the Social Security Act which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(c); second by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed to a Federal agency which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(d); and third by any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed to a State (other than past-due support) which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) or 26 U.S.C. 6402(f).
Priorities for offset.
(1) As provided in 26 U.S.C. 6402, a tax refund payment shall be reduced first by the amount of any past-due support being enforced under section 464 of the Social Security Act which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(c); second by the amount of any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed to a Federal agency which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(d); and third by any past-due, legally enforceable debt owed to a State (other than past-due support) which is to be offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) or 26 U.S.C. 6402(f).
(2) Reduction of the tax refund payment pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6402(a), (c), (d), (e) and (f) shall occur prior to crediting the overpayment to any future liability for an internal revenue tax. Any amount remaining after tax refund offset under 26 U.S.C. 6402(a), (c), (d), (e) and (f) shall be refunded to the taxpayer, or applied to estimated tax, if elected by the taxpayer pursuant to IRS regulations.
(3) If Fiscal Service receives notice from a State of more than one debt subject to this section that is owed by a debtor to the State, any overpayment by the debtor shall be applied against such debts in the order in which such debts accrued.
(e) Post-offset notice. (1) When an offset occurs, Fiscal Service shall notify the debtor in writing of:
Post-offset notice.
(1) When an offset occurs, Fiscal Service shall notify the debtor in writing of:
(i) The amount and date of the offset and that the purpose of the offset was to satisfy a past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt;
(ii) The State to which this amount has been paid or credited; and
(iii) A contact point within the State that will handle concerns or questions regarding the offset.
(2) The notice in paragraph (e)(1) of this section also will advise any non-debtor spouse who may have filed a joint return with the debtor of the steps which the non-debtor spouse may take in order to secure his or her proper share of the tax refund. See paragraph (f) of this section.
(3) Fiscal Service will advise States of the names, mailing addresses, and taxpayer identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts of State income tax obligations or unemployment compensation debts were collected, and of the amounts collected from each debtor through tax refund offset.
(4) At least weekly, Fiscal Service will notify the IRS of the names and taxpayer identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts owed for past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligations or unemployment compensation debts were collected from tax refund offsets and the amounts collected from each debtor.
(f) Offset made with regard to a tax refund payment based upon joint return. If the person filing a joint return with a debtor owing the past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt takes appropriate action to secure his or her proper share of a tax refund from which an offset was made, the IRS will pay the person his or her share of the refund and request that Fiscal Service deduct that amount from future amounts payable to the State or that Fiscal Service otherwise obtain the funds back from the State. Fiscal Service, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
Offset made with regard to a tax refund payment based upon joint return.
If the person filing a joint return with a debtor owing the past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligation or unemployment compensation debt takes appropriate action to secure his or her proper share of a tax refund from which an offset was made, the IRS will pay the person his or her share of the refund and request that Fiscal Service deduct that amount from future amounts payable to the State or that Fiscal Service otherwise obtain the funds back from the State. Fiscal Service, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
(g) Disposition of amounts collected. Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (h) of this section, to the appropriate State. If Fiscal Service learns that an erroneous offset payment is made to any State, Fiscal Service will notify the appropriate State that an erroneous offset payment has been made. Fiscal Service may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to the State. Alternatively, upon Fiscal Service' request, the State shall return promptly to the affected taxpayer or Fiscal Service an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (unless the State previously has paid such amounts, or any portion of such amounts, to the affected taxpayer). States shall notify Fiscal Service any time a State returns an erroneous offset payment to an affected taxpayer. Fiscal Service, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
Disposition of amounts collected.
Fiscal Service will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (h) of this section, to the appropriate State. If Fiscal Service learns that an erroneous offset payment is made to any State, Fiscal Service will notify the appropriate State that an erroneous offset payment has been made. Fiscal Service may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to the State. Alternatively, upon Fiscal Service' request, the State shall return promptly to the affected taxpayer or Fiscal Service an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (unless the State previously has paid such amounts, or any portion of such amounts, to the affected taxpayer). States shall notify Fiscal Service any time a State returns an erroneous offset payment to an affected taxpayer. Fiscal Service, or the appropriate State, will adjust their debtor records accordingly.
(h) Fees. The State will pay a fee to Fiscal Service to cover the full cost of offsets taken. The fee will be established annually in such amount as Fiscal Service determines to be sufficient to reimburse Fiscal Service for the full cost of the offset procedure. Fiscal Service will deduct the fees from amounts collected prior to disposition and transmit a portion of the fees deducted to reimburse the IRS for its share of the cost of administering the tax refund offset program for purposes of collecting past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligations or unemployment compensation debts reported to Fiscal Service by the States. Fees will be charged only for actual tax refund offsets completed.
Fees.
The State will pay a fee to Fiscal Service to cover the full cost of offsets taken. The fee will be established annually in such amount as Fiscal Service determines to be sufficient to reimburse Fiscal Service for the full cost of the offset procedure. Fiscal Service will deduct the fees from amounts collected prior to disposition and transmit a portion of the fees deducted to reimburse the IRS for its share of the cost of administering the tax refund offset program for purposes of collecting past-due, legally enforceable State income tax obligations or unemployment compensation debts reported to Fiscal Service by the States. Fees will be charged only for actual tax refund offsets completed.
(i) Review of tax refund offsets. In accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(g), any reduction of a taxpayer's refund made pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) or (f) shall not be subject to review by any court of the United States or by the Secretary of the Treasury, Fiscal Service or IRS in an administrative proceeding. No action brought against the United States to recover the amount of this reduction shall be considered to be a suit for refund of tax. This subsection does not preclude any legal, equitable, or administrative action against the State to which the amount of such reduction was paid.
Review of tax refund offsets.
In accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6402(g), any reduction of a taxpayer's refund made pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) or (f) shall not be subject to review by any court of the United States or by the Secretary of the Treasury, Fiscal Service or IRS in an administrative proceeding. No action brought against the United States to recover the amount of this reduction shall be considered to be a suit for refund of tax. This subsection does not preclude any legal, equitable, or administrative action against the State to which the amount of such reduction was paid.
(j) Access to and use of confidential tax information. Access to and use of confidential tax information in connection with the tax refund offset program is permitted to the extent necessary in establishing appropriate agency records, locating any person with respect to whom a reduction under 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) or (f) is sought for purposes of collecting the debt, and in the defense of any litigation or administrative procedure ensuing from a reduction made under section 6402(e) or (f).
Access to and use of confidential tax information.
Access to and use of confidential tax information in connection with the tax refund offset program is permitted to the extent necessary in establishing appropriate agency records, locating any person with respect to whom a reduction under 26 U.S.C. 6402(e) or (f) is sought for purposes of collecting the debt, and in the defense of any litigation or administrative procedure ensuing from a reduction made under section 6402(e) or (f).
(k) Social Security numbers. Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer the tax refund offset program, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
Social Security numbers.
Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by mail. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer the tax refund offset program, Fiscal Service (and other disbursing officials) may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
(1) In interoffice and interagency communications;
(2) In notices, including notices to the debtor or payee that an offset has or will occur, when the Social Security number is (or is embedded in) a creditor agency's account number, debt identification number, or debtor identification number;
(3) In response to a request of a debtor or a debtor's representative for records of Fiscal Service's offset activities; and
(4) When required by law.
[[64 FR 71231, Dec. 20, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 27433, June 10, 2009; 76 FR 5071, Jan. 28, 2011; 87 FR 50248, Aug. 16, 2022]]

Subpart B—Authorities Other Than Offset


§ 285.11   Administrative wage garnishment.

(a) Purpose. This section provides procedures for Federal agencies to collect money from a debtor's disposable pay by means of administrative wage garnishment to satisfy delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States.
Purpose.
This section provides procedures for Federal agencies to collect money from a debtor's disposable pay by means of administrative wage garnishment to satisfy delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States.
(b) Scope. (1) This section applies to any Federal agency that administers a program that gives rise to a delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States and to any agency that pursues recovery of such debt.
Scope.
(1) This section applies to any Federal agency that administers a program that gives rise to a delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States and to any agency that pursues recovery of such debt.
(2) This section shall apply notwithstanding any provision of State law.
(3) Nothing in this section precludes the compromise of a debt or the suspension or termination of collection action in accordance with applicable law. See, for example, the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 CFR parts 900-904.
(4) The receipt of payments pursuant to this section does not preclude a Federal agency from pursuing other debt collection remedies, including the offset of Federal payments to satisfy delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States. A Federal agency may pursue such debt collection remedies separately or in conjunction with administrative wage garnishment.
(5) This section does not apply to the collection of delinquent nontax debt owed to the United States from the wages of Federal employees from their Federal employment. Federal pay is subject to the Federal salary offset procedures set forth in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and other applicable laws.
(6) Nothing in this section requires agencies to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
(c) Definitions. As used in this section the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions.
As used in this section the following definitions shall apply:
Agency means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations. For purposes of this section, agency means either the agency that administers the program that gave rise to the debt or the agency that pursues recovery of the debt.
Agency
means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations. For purposes of this section, agency means either the agency that administers the program that gave rise to the debt or the agency that pursues recovery of the debt.
Business day means Monday through Friday. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Federal legal holiday.
Business day
means Monday through Friday. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Federal legal holiday.
Day means calendar day. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday.
Day
means calendar day. For purposes of computation, the last day of the period will be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday.
Debt or claim means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States by an individual, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government.
Debt
or
claim
means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States by an individual, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government.
Debtor means an individual who owes a delinquent nontax debt to the United States.
Debtor
means an individual who owes a delinquent nontax debt to the United States.
Delinquent nontax debt means any nontax debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment, or applicable agreement, unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made. For purposes of this section, the terms “debt” and “claim” are synonymous and refer to delinquent nontax debt.
Delinquent nontax debt
means any nontax debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment, or applicable agreement, unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made. For purposes of this section, the terms “debt” and “claim” are synonymous and refer to delinquent nontax debt.
Disposable pay means that part of the debtor's compensation (including, but not limited to, salary, bonuses, commissions, and vacation pay) from an employer remaining after the deduction of health insurance premiums and any amounts required by law to be withheld. For purposes of this section, “amounts required by law to be withheld” include amounts for deductions such as social security taxes and withholding taxes, but do not include any amount withheld pursuant to a court order.
Disposable pay
means that part of the debtor's compensation (including, but not limited to, salary, bonuses, commissions, and vacation pay) from an employer remaining after the deduction of health insurance premiums and any amounts required by law to be withheld. For purposes of this section, “amounts required by law to be withheld” include amounts for deductions such as social security taxes and withholding taxes, but do not include any amount withheld pursuant to a court order.
Employer means a person or entity that employs the services of others and that pays their wages or salaries. The term employer includes, but is not limited to, State and local Governments, but does not include an agency of the Federal Government.
Employer
means a person or entity that employs the services of others and that pays their wages or salaries. The term employer includes, but is not limited to, State and local Governments, but does not include an agency of the Federal Government.
Evidence of service means information retained by the agency indicating the nature of the document to which it pertains, the date of mailing of the document, and to whom the document is being sent. Evidence of service may be retained electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
Evidence of service
means information retained by the agency indicating the nature of the document to which it pertains, the date of mailing of the document, and to whom the document is being sent. Evidence of service may be retained electronically so long as the manner of retention is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.
Garnishment means the process of withholding amounts from an employee's disposable pay and the paying of those amounts to a creditor in satisfaction of a withholding order.
Garnishment
means the process of withholding amounts from an employee's disposable pay and the paying of those amounts to a creditor in satisfaction of a withholding order.
Withholding order means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by an agency, or judicial or administrative body. For purposes of this section, the terms “wage garnishment order” and “garnishment order” have the same meaning as “withholding order.”
Withholding order
means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by an agency, or judicial or administrative body. For purposes of this section, the terms “wage garnishment order” and “garnishment order” have the same meaning as “withholding order.”
(d) General rule. Whenever an agency determines that a delinquent debt is owed by an individual, the agency may initiate proceedings administratively to garnish the wages of the delinquent debtor.
General rule.
Whenever an agency determines that a delinquent debt is owed by an individual, the agency may initiate proceedings administratively to garnish the wages of the delinquent debtor.
(e) Notice requirements. (1) At least 30 days before the initiation of garnishment proceedings, the agency shall mail, by first class mail, to the debtor's last known address a written notice informing the debtor of:
Notice requirements.
(1) At least 30 days before the initiation of garnishment proceedings, the agency shall mail, by first class mail, to the debtor's last known address a written notice informing the debtor of:
(i) The nature and amount of the debt;
(ii) The intention of the agency to initiate proceedings to collect the debt through deductions from pay until the debt and all accumulated interest, penalties and administrative costs are paid in full; and
(iii) An explanation of the debtor's rights, including those set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and the time frame within which the debtor may exercise his or her rights.
(2) The debtor shall be afforded the opportunity:
(i) To inspect and copy agency records related to the debt;
(ii) To enter into a written repayment agreement with the agency under terms agreeable to the agency; and
(iii) For a hearing in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section concerning the existence or the amount of the debt or the terms of the proposed repayment schedule under the garnishment order. However, the debtor is not entitled to a hearing concerning the terms of the proposed repayment schedule if these terms have been established by written agreement under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3) The agency will retain evidence of service indicating the date of mailing of the notice.
(f) Hearing—(1) In general. Agencies shall prescribe regulations for the conduct of administrative wage garnishment hearings consistent with this section or shall adopt this section without change by reference.
Hearing
—(1)
In general.
Agencies shall prescribe regulations for the conduct of administrative wage garnishment hearings consistent with this section or shall adopt this section without change by reference.
(2) Request for hearing. The agency shall provide a hearing, which at the agency's option may be oral or written, if the debtor submits a written request for a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt or the terms of the repayment schedule (for repayment schedules established other than by written agreement under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)) of this section.
Request for hearing.
The agency shall provide a hearing, which at the agency's option may be oral or written, if the debtor submits a written request for a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt or the terms of the repayment schedule (for repayment schedules established other than by written agreement under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)) of this section.
(3) Type of hearing or review. (i) For purposes of this section, whenever an agency is required to afford a debtor a hearing, the agency shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the agency determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the claim turns on the issue of credibility or veracity.
Type of hearing or review.
(i) For purposes of this section, whenever an agency is required to afford a debtor a hearing, the agency shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the agency determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the claim turns on the issue of credibility or veracity.
(ii) If the agency determines that an oral hearing is appropriate, the time and location of the hearing shall be established by the agency. An oral hearing may, at the debtor's option, be conducted either in-person or by telephone conference. All travel expenses incurred by the debtor in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the debtor. All telephonic charges incurred during the hearing will be the responsibility of the agency.
(iii) In those cases when an oral hearing is not required by this section, an agency shall nevertheless accord the debtor a “paper hearing,” that is, an agency will decide the issues in dispute based upon a review of the written record. The agency will establish a reasonable deadline for the submission of evidence.
(4) Effect of timely request. Subject to paragraph (f)(13) of this section, if the debtor's written request is received by the agency on or before the 15th business day following the mailing of the notice described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the agency shall not issue a withholding order under paragraph (g) of this section until the debtor has been provided the requested hearing and a decision in accordance with paragraphs (f)(10) and (f)(11) of this section has been rendered.
Effect of timely request.
Subject to paragraph (f)(13) of this section, if the debtor's written request is received by the agency on or before the 15th business day following the mailing of the notice described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the agency shall not issue a withholding order under paragraph (g) of this section until the debtor has been provided the requested hearing and a decision in accordance with paragraphs (f)(10) and (f)(11) of this section has been rendered.
(5) Failure to timely request a hearing. If the debtor's written request is received by the agency after the 15th business day following the mailing of the notice described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the agency shall provide a hearing to the debtor. However, the agency will not delay issuance of a withholding order unless the agency determines that the delay in filing the request was caused by factors over which the debtor had no control, or the agency receives information that the agency believes justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order.
Failure to timely request a hearing.
If the debtor's written request is received by the agency after the 15th business day following the mailing of the notice described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the agency shall provide a hearing to the debtor. However, the agency will not delay issuance of a withholding order unless the agency determines that the delay in filing the request was caused by factors over which the debtor had no control, or the agency receives information that the agency believes justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order.
(6) Hearing official. A hearing official may be any qualified individual, as determined by the head of the agency, including an administrative law judge.
Hearing official.
A hearing official may be any qualified individual, as determined by the head of the agency, including an administrative law judge.
(7) Procedure. After the debtor requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the debtor of:
Procedure.
After the debtor requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the debtor of:
(i) The date and time of a telephonic hearing;
(ii) The date, time, and location of an in-person oral hearing; or
(iii) The deadline for the submission of evidence for a written hearing.
(8) Burden of proof. (i) The agency will have the burden of going forward to prove the existence or amount of the debt.
Burden of proof.
(i) The agency will have the burden of going forward to prove the existence or amount of the debt.
(ii) Thereafter, if the debtor disputes the existence or amount of the debt, the debtor must present by a preponderance of the evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect. In addition, the debtor may present evidence that the terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause a financial hardship to the debtor, or that collection of the debt may not be pursued due to operation of law.
(9) Record. The hearing official must maintain a summary record of any hearing provided under this section. A hearing is not required to be a formal evidentiary-type hearing, however, witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation.
Record.
The hearing official must maintain a summary record of any hearing provided under this section. A hearing is not required to be a formal evidentiary-type hearing, however, witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation.
(10) Date of decision. The hearing official shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, as soon as practicable, but not later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the request for such hearing was received by the agency. If an agency is unable to provide the debtor with a hearing and render a decision within 60 days after the receipt of the request for such hearing:
Date of decision.
The hearing official shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, as soon as practicable, but not later than sixty (60) days after the date on which the request for such hearing was received by the agency. If an agency is unable to provide the debtor with a hearing and render a decision within 60 days after the receipt of the request for such hearing:
(i) The agency may not issue a withholding order until the hearing is held and a decision rendered; or
(ii) If the agency had previously issued a withholding order to the debtor's employer, the agency must suspend the withholding order beginning on the 61st day after the receipt of the hearing request and continuing until a hearing is held and a decision is rendered.
(11) Content of decision. The written decision shall include:
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(i) A summary of the facts presented;
(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis and conclusions; and
(iii) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable.
(12) Final agency action. The hearing official's decision will be the final agency action for the purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701 et seq.).
Final agency action.
The hearing official's decision will be the final agency action for the purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
).
(13) Failure to appear. In the absence of good cause shown, a debtor who fails to appear at a hearing scheduled pursuant to paragraph (f)(4) of this section will be deemed as not having timely filed a request for a hearing.
Failure to appear.
In the absence of good cause shown, a debtor who fails to appear at a hearing scheduled pursuant to paragraph (f)(4) of this section will be deemed as not having timely filed a request for a hearing.
(g) Wage garnishment order. (1) Unless the agency receives information that the agency believes justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order, the agency should send, by first class mail, a withholding order to the debtor's employer:
Wage garnishment order.
(1) Unless the agency receives information that the agency believes justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order, the agency should send, by first class mail, a withholding order to the debtor's employer:
(i) Within 30 days after the debtor fails to make a timely request for a hearing (i.e., within 15 business days after the mailing of the notice described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section), or,
i.e.
, within 15 business days after the mailing of the notice described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section), or,
(ii) If a timely request for a hearing is made by the debtor, within 30 days after a final decision is made by the agency to proceed with garnishment, or,
(iii) As soon as reasonably possible thereafter.
(2) The withholding order sent to the employer under paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be in a form prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. The withholding order shall contain the signature of, or the image of the signature of, the head of the agency or his/her delegatee. The order shall contain only the information necessary for the employer to comply with the withholding order. Such information includes the debtor's name, address, and social security number, as well as instructions for withholding and information as to where payments should be sent.
(3) The agency will retain evidence of service indicating the date of mailing of the order.
(h) Certification by employer. Along with the withholding order, the agency shall send to the employer a certification in a form prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. The employer shall complete and return the certification to the agency within the time frame prescribed in the instructions to the form. The certification will address matters such as information about the debtor's employment status and disposable pay available for withholding.
Certification by employer.
Along with the withholding order, the agency shall send to the employer a certification in a form prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. The employer shall complete and return the certification to the agency within the time frame prescribed in the instructions to the form. The certification will address matters such as information about the debtor's employment status and disposable pay available for withholding.
(i) Amounts withheld. (1) After receipt of the garnishment order issued under this section, the employer shall deduct from all disposable pay paid to the applicable debtor during each pay period the amount of garnishment described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.
Amounts withheld.
(1) After receipt of the garnishment order issued under this section, the employer shall deduct from all disposable pay paid to the applicable debtor during each pay period the amount of garnishment described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.
(2)(i) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (i)(3) and (i)(4) of this section, the amount of garnishment shall be the lesser of:
(A) The amount indicated on the garnishment order up to 15% of the debtor's disposable pay; or
(B) The amount set forth in 15 U.S.C. 1673(a)(2) (Restriction on Garnishment). The amount set forth at 15 U.S.C. 1673(a)(2) is the amount by which a debtor's disposable pay exceeds an amount equivalent to thirty times the minimum wage. See 29 CFR 870.10.
(3) When a debtor's pay is subject to withholding orders with priority the following shall apply:
(i) Unless otherwise provided by Federal law, withholding orders issued under this section shall be paid in the amounts set forth under paragraph (i)(2) of this section and shall have priority over other withholding orders which are served later in time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, withholding orders for family support shall have priority over withholding orders issued under this section.
(ii) If amounts are being withheld from a debtor's pay pursuant to a withholding order served on an employer before a withholding order issued pursuant to this section, or if a withholding order for family support is served on an employer at any time, the amounts withheld pursuant to the withholding order issued under this section shall be the lesser of:
(A) The amount calculated under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, or
(B) An amount equal to 25% of the debtor's disposable pay less the amount(s) withheld under the withholding order(s) with priority.
(iii) If a debtor owes more than one debt to an agency, the agency may issue multiple withholding orders provided that the total amount garnished from the debtor's pay for such orders does not exceed the amount set forth in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (i)(3)(iii), the term agency refers to the agency that is owed the debt.
agency
refers to the agency that is owed the debt.
(4) An amount greater than that set forth in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section may be withheld upon the written consent of debtor.
(5) The employer shall promptly pay to the agency all amounts withheld in accordance with the withholding order issued pursuant to this section.
(6) An employer shall not be required to vary its normal pay and disbursement cycles in order to comply with the withholding order.
(7) Any assignment or allotment by an employee of his earnings shall be void to the extent it interferes with or prohibits execution of the withholding order issued under this section, except for any assignment or allotment made pursuant to a family support judgment or order.
(8) The employer shall withhold the appropriate amount from the debtor's wages for each pay period until the employer receives notification from the agency to discontinue wage withholding. The garnishment order shall indicate a reasonable period of time within which the employer is required to commence wage withholding.
(j) Exclusions from garnishment. The agency may not garnish the wages of a debtor who it knows has been involuntarily separated from employment until the debtor has been reemployed continuously for at least 12 months. The debtor has the burden of informing the agency of the circumstances surrounding an involuntary separation from employment.
Exclusions from garnishment.
The agency may not garnish the wages of a debtor who it knows has been involuntarily separated from employment until the debtor has been reemployed continuously for at least 12 months. The debtor has the burden of informing the agency of the circumstances surrounding an involuntary separation from employment.
(k) Financial hardship. (1) A debtor whose wages are subject to a wage withholding order under this section, may, at any time, request a review by the agency of the amount garnished, based on materially changed circumstances such as disability, divorce, or catastrophic illness which result in financial hardship.
Financial hardship.
(1) A debtor whose wages are subject to a wage withholding order under this section, may, at any time, request a review by the agency of the amount garnished, based on materially changed circumstances such as disability, divorce, or catastrophic illness which result in financial hardship.
(2) A debtor requesting a review under paragraph (k)(1) of this section shall submit the basis for claiming that the current amount of garnishment results in a financial hardship to the debtor, along with supporting documentation. Agencies shall consider any information submitted in accordance with procedures and standards established by the agency.
(3) If a financial hardship is found, the agency shall downwardly adjust, by an amount and for a period of time agreeable to the agency, the amount garnished to reflect the debtor's financial condition. The agency will notify the employer of any adjustments to the amounts to be withheld.
(l) Ending garnishment. (1) Once the agency has fully recovered the amounts owed by the debtor, including interest, penalties, and administrative costs consistent with the FCCS, the agency shall send the debtor's employer notification to discontinue wage withholding.
Ending garnishment.
(1) Once the agency has fully recovered the amounts owed by the debtor, including interest, penalties, and administrative costs consistent with the FCCS, the agency shall send the debtor's employer notification to discontinue wage withholding.
(2) At least annually, an agency shall review its debtors' accounts to ensure that garnishment has been terminated for accounts that have been paid in full.
(m) Actions prohibited by the employer. An employer may not discharge, refuse to employ, or take disciplinary action against the debtor due to the issuance of a withholding order under this section.
Actions prohibited by the employer.
An employer may not discharge, refuse to employ, or take disciplinary action against the debtor due to the issuance of a withholding order under this section.
(n) Refunds. (1) If a hearing official, at a hearing held pursuant to paragraph (f)(3) of this section, determines that a debt is not legally due and owing to the United States, the agency shall promptly refund any amount collected by means of administrative wage garnishment.
Refunds.
(1) If a hearing official, at a hearing held pursuant to paragraph (f)(3) of this section, determines that a debt is not legally due and owing to the United States, the agency shall promptly refund any amount collected by means of administrative wage garnishment.
(2) Unless required by Federal law or contract, refunds under this section shall not bear interest.
(o) Right of action. The agency may sue any employer for any amount that the employer fails to withhold from wages owed and payable to an employee in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section. However, a suit may not be filed before the termination of the collection action involving a particular debtor, unless earlier filing is necessary to avoid expiration of any applicable statute of limitations period. For purposes of this section, “termination of the collection action” occurs when the agency has terminated collection action in accordance with the FCCS or other applicable standards. In any event, termination of the collection action will have been deemed to occur if the agency has not received any payments to satisfy the debt from the particular debtor whose wages were subject to garnishment, in whole or in part, for a period of one (1) year.
Right of action.
The agency may sue any employer for any amount that the employer fails to withhold from wages owed and payable to an employee in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section. However, a suit may not be filed before the termination of the collection action involving a particular debtor, unless earlier filing is necessary to avoid expiration of any applicable statute of limitations period. For purposes of this section, “termination of the collection action” occurs when the agency has terminated collection action in accordance with the FCCS or other applicable standards. In any event, termination of the collection action will have been deemed to occur if the agency has not received any payments to satisfy the debt from the particular debtor whose wages were subject to garnishment, in whole or in part, for a period of one (1) year.
[[63 FR 25139, May 6, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 22908, Apr. 28, 1999; 66 FR 51868, Oct. 11, 2001]]

§ 285.12   Transfer of debts to Treasury for collection.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Centralized Receivables Service means the program through which Fiscal Service provides servicing, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), for Federal nontax debt from the point at which a creditor agency establishes a debt until the debt is paid, otherwise resolved, or referred to the Cross-Servicing program for further action.
Centralized Receivables Service
means the program through which Fiscal Service provides servicing, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), for Federal nontax debt from the point at which a creditor agency establishes a debt until the debt is paid, otherwise resolved, or referred to the Cross-Servicing program for further action.
Creditor agency means any Federal agency that is owed a debt.
Creditor agency
means any Federal agency that is owed a debt.
Cross-Servicing program means the program through which Fiscal Service provides delinquent nontax debt collection services pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
Cross-Servicing program
means the program through which Fiscal Service provides delinquent nontax debt collection services pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g).
Days delinquent refers to the number of days that a debt has been in a delinquent status. For administrative debts (e.g., debts arising from fines, penalties, and overpayments), the first day of delinquency generally is the date of the creditor agency's initial written demand for payment. For debts that arise from the extension of credit through direct loans, loan guarantees, or insurance, the date of delinquency generally is the due date specified in the applicable agreement or instrument.
Days delinquent
refers to the number of days that a debt has been in a delinquent status. For administrative debts (e.g., debts arising from fines, penalties, and overpayments), the first day of delinquency generally is the date of the creditor agency's initial written demand for payment. For debts that arise from the extension of credit through direct loans, loan guarantees, or insurance, the date of delinquency generally is the due date specified in the applicable agreement or instrument.
Debt means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person. As used in this section, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Debt
means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal government to be owed to the United States by a person. As used in this section, the term “debt” does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Debt collection center means a Federal agency or a unit or subagency within a Federal agency that has been designated by the Secretary to collect debt owed to the United States. Fiscal Service is a debt collection center.
Debt collection center
means a Federal agency or a unit or subagency within a Federal agency that has been designated by the Secretary to collect debt owed to the United States. Fiscal Service is a debt collection center.
Debtor means a person who owes a debt.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt.
Delinquent or past-due refers to the status of a debt and means a debt has not been paid by the date specified in the creditor agency's initial written demand for payment, or other applicable agreement or instrument, unless other payment arrangements satisfactory to the creditor agency have been made.
Delinquent or past-due
refers to the status of a debt and means a debt has not been paid by the date specified in the creditor agency's initial written demand for payment, or other applicable agreement or instrument, unless other payment arrangements satisfactory to the creditor agency have been made.
Federal agency means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Federal agency
means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Legally enforceable refers to a characteristic of a debt and means there has been a final agency determination that the debt, in the amount stated, is due, and there are no legal bars to collection. A debt would not be legally enforceable, for example, if the debt is:
Legally enforceable
refers to a characteristic of a debt and means there has been a final agency determination that the debt, in the amount stated, is due, and there are no legal bars to collection. A debt would not be legally enforceable, for example, if the debt is:
(1) The subject of a pending administrative review required by a statute or regulation that prohibits collection action during the review process; or
(2) Governed by a statute that precludes collection.
Person means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than the United States or a Federal agency.
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than the United States or a Federal agency.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) In general. Fiscal Service and other debt collection centers may take debt collection action on behalf of one or more Federal agencies or a unit or subagency thereof. Fiscal Service provides these services through its Cross-Servicing program and its Centralized Receivables Service.
In general.
Fiscal Service and other debt collection centers may take debt collection action on behalf of one or more Federal agencies or a unit or subagency thereof. Fiscal Service provides these services through its Cross-Servicing program and its Centralized Receivables Service.
(c) Mandatory transfer of debts to Fiscal Service's Cross-Servicing program. (1) A debt is considered eligible for transfer to the Cross-Servicing program only if it is past due and is legally enforceable.
Mandatory transfer of debts to Fiscal Service's Cross-Servicing program.
(1) A debt is considered eligible for transfer to the Cross-Servicing program only if it is past due and is legally enforceable.
(2) Except as set forth in paragraphs (c)(3) and (d) of this section, a creditor agency must transfer any eligible debt that is over $25 (or such other amount as Fiscal Service may determine) to the Cross-Servicing program by no later than 120 days delinquent if the creditor agency relies on the Cross-Servicing program to submit the transferred debts for centralized offset on the creditor agency's behalf or, otherwise, by no more than 180 days delinquent.
(3) If a final agency determination resulting from an administrative appeal or review process is not made until after the time specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the creditor agency must transfer such debt to the Cross-Servicing program within 30 days after the date of the final decision.
(4) For accounting and reporting purposes, the debt remains on the books and records of the Federal agency, which transferred the debt.
(5) On behalf of the creditor agency, Fiscal Service will take appropriate action to collect or compromise the transferred debt, or to suspend or terminate collection action thereon. Appropriate action to collect a debt may include referral to another debt collection center, a private collection contractor, or the Department of Justice for litigation. The creditor agency must advise Fiscal Service, in writing, of any specific statutory or regulatory requirements pertaining to its debt and will agree, in writing, to a collection strategy, which includes parameters for entering into compromise and repayments agreements with debtors.
(d) Exceptions to mandatory transfer. (1) A creditor agency is not required to transfer a debt to Fiscal Service pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section only during such period of time that the debt:
Exceptions to mandatory transfer.
(1) A creditor agency is not required to transfer a debt to Fiscal Service pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section only during such period of time that the debt:
(i) Is in litigation or foreclosure as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section;
(ii) Is scheduled for sale as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(iii) Is at a private collection contractor if the debt has been referred to a private collection contractor for a period of time determined by the Secretary;
(iv) Is at a debt collection center if the debt has been referred to a Treasury-designated debt collection center in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section;
(v) Is being collected by internal offset as described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section;
(vi) Is being serviced and/or collected in accordance with applicable statutes and/or regulations by third parties, such as private lenders or guaranty agencies; or
(vii) Is covered by an exemption granted by the Secretary as described in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(2)(i) A debt is in litigation if:
(A) The debt has been referred to the Attorney General for litigation by the creditor agency; or
(B) The debt is the subject of proceedings pending in a court of competent jurisdiction, including bankruptcy proceedings, whether initiated by the creditor agency, the debtor, or any other party.
(ii) A debt is in foreclosure if:
(A)(1) Collateral securing the debt is the subject of judicial foreclosure proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction; or
1
) Collateral securing the debt is the subject of judicial foreclosure proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction; or
(2) Notice has been issued that collateral securing the debt will be foreclosed upon, liquidated, sold, or otherwise transferred pursuant to applicable law in a nonjudicial proceeding; and
2
) Notice has been issued that collateral securing the debt will be foreclosed upon, liquidated, sold, or otherwise transferred pursuant to applicable law in a nonjudicial proceeding; and
(B) The creditor agency anticipates that proceeds will be available from the liquidation of the collateral for application to the debt.
(3) A debt is scheduled for sale if:
(i) The debt will be disposed of under an asset sales program within one (1) year after becoming eligible for sale; or
(ii) The debt will be disposed of under an asset sales program and a schedule established by the creditor agency and approved by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(4) A debt is being collected by internal offset if a creditor agency expects the debt to be collected in full within three (3) years from the date of delinquency through the withholding of funds payable to the debtor by the creditor agency, or if the creditor agency has issued notice to the debtor of the creditor agency's intent to offset such funds.
(5) The Secretary may exempt classes of debt from mandatory referral. (i) Upon the written request of the head of a Federal agency, or as the Secretary may determine on his/her own initiative, the Secretary may exempt any class of debts from the application of the requirement described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. In determining whether to exempt a class of debts, the Secretary will determine whether exemption is in the best interests of the Government after considering the following factors:
(A) Whether an exemption is the best means to protect the government's financial interest, taking into consideration the number, dollar amount, age and collection rates of the debts for which exemption is requested;
(B) Whether the nature of the program under which the delinquencies have arisen is such that the transfer of such debts would interfere with program goals; and
(C) Whether an exemption would be consistent with the purposes of the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (DCIA), Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321-358 (April 26, 1996).
(ii) Requests for exemptions must clearly identify the class of debts for which an exemption is sought and must explain how application of the factors listed above to that class of debts warrants an exemption.
(iii) Requests for exemption must be made by the head of the agency requesting the exemption, the Chief Financial Officer of the agency, or the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the agency. For purposes of this section, the head of an agency does not include the head of a subordinate organization within a department or agency.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) Debt collection centers. A creditor agency may transfer debt that has not been transferred to Fiscal Service, such as debt less than 180 days delinquent, to a Treasury-designated debt collection center, with the consent of, and in accordance with procedures established by Fiscal Service. Debt collection centers will take action upon a debt in accordance with the statutory or regulatory requirements and other authorities that apply to the debt or to the particular action being taken. Debt collection centers may, on behalf of the creditor agency and subject to the terms under which the debt collection center has been designated as such by the Secretary, take any action to collect, compromise, suspend or terminate collection action on debts, in accordance with terms and conditions agreed upon in writing by the creditor agency and the debt collection center or Fiscal Service. Debt collection centers may charge fees for the debt collection services in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (j) of this section.
Debt collection centers.
A creditor agency may transfer debt that has not been transferred to Fiscal Service, such as debt less than 180 days delinquent, to a Treasury-designated debt collection center, with the consent of, and in accordance with procedures established by Fiscal Service. Debt collection centers will take action upon a debt in accordance with the statutory or regulatory requirements and other authorities that apply to the debt or to the particular action being taken. Debt collection centers may, on behalf of the creditor agency and subject to the terms under which the debt collection center has been designated as such by the Secretary, take any action to collect, compromise, suspend or terminate collection action on debts, in accordance with terms and conditions agreed upon in writing by the creditor agency and the debt collection center or Fiscal Service. Debt collection centers may charge fees for the debt collection services in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (j) of this section.
(g) Administrative offset. As described in paragraph (c) of this section, under the DCIA, agencies are required to transfer all debts over 180 days delinquent to Fiscal Service for purposes of debt collection (i.e., cross-servicing). Agencies are also required, under the DCIA, to notify the Secretary of all debts over 120 days delinquent for purposes of administrative offset. Administrative offset is one type of collection tool used by Fiscal Service and Treasury-designated debt collection centers to collect debts transferred under this section. Thus, by transferring debt to Fiscal Service or to a Treasury-designated debt collection center under this section, Federal agencies will satisfy the requirement to notify the Secretary of debts for purposes of administrative offset and duplicate referrals are not required. Agencies relying on Fiscal Service to submit debts for administrative offset on the agency's behalf must transfer the debts to Fiscal Service no later than 120 days after the debts become delinquent in order to satisfy the 120-day notice requirement for purposes of administrative offset. A debt which is not transferred to Fiscal Service for purposes of debt collection, however, such as a debt which falls within one of the exempt categories listed in paragraph (d) of this section, nevertheless may be subject to the DCIA requirement of notification to the Secretary for purposes of administrative offset.
Administrative offset.
As described in paragraph (c) of this section, under the DCIA, agencies are required to transfer all debts over 180 days delinquent to Fiscal Service for purposes of debt collection (
i.e.,
cross-servicing). Agencies are also required, under the DCIA, to notify the Secretary of all debts over 120 days delinquent for purposes of administrative offset. Administrative offset is one type of collection tool used by Fiscal Service and Treasury-designated debt collection centers to collect debts transferred under this section. Thus, by transferring debt to Fiscal Service or to a Treasury-designated debt collection center under this section, Federal agencies will satisfy the requirement to notify the Secretary of debts for purposes of administrative offset and duplicate referrals are not required. Agencies relying on Fiscal Service to submit debts for administrative offset on the agency's behalf must transfer the debts to Fiscal Service no later than 120 days after the debts become delinquent in order to satisfy the 120-day notice requirement for purposes of administrative offset. A debt which is not transferred to Fiscal Service for purposes of debt collection, however, such as a debt which falls within one of the exempt categories listed in paragraph (d) of this section, nevertheless may be subject to the DCIA requirement of notification to the Secretary for purposes of administrative offset.
(h) Voluntary referral of debts less than 180 days delinquent. A creditor agency may refer any debt that is less than 180 days delinquent to Fiscal Service or, with the consent of Fiscal Service, to a Treasury-designated debt collection center for debt collection services.
Voluntary referral of debts less than 180 days delinquent.
A creditor agency may refer any debt that is less than 180 days delinquent to Fiscal Service or, with the consent of Fiscal Service, to a Treasury-designated debt collection center for debt collection services.
(i) Certification. Before a debt may be transferred to Fiscal Service or another debt collection center, the head of the creditor agency or his or her delegate must certify, in writing, that the debts being transferred are valid, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection. Creditor agencies must also certify that they have complied with all prerequisites to a particular collection action under the laws, regulations or policies applicable to the debt unless the creditor agency has requested, and Fiscal Service has agreed, to do so on the creditor agency's behalf. The creditor agency shall notify Fiscal Service immediately of any change in the status of the legal enforceability of the debt, for example, if the creditor agency receives notice that the debtor has filed for bankruptcy protection.
Certification.
Before a debt may be transferred to Fiscal Service or another debt collection center, the head of the creditor agency or his or her delegate must certify, in writing, that the debts being transferred are valid, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection. Creditor agencies must also certify that they have complied with all prerequisites to a particular collection action under the laws, regulations or policies applicable to the debt unless the creditor agency has requested, and Fiscal Service has agreed, to do so on the creditor agency's behalf. The creditor agency shall notify Fiscal Service immediately of any change in the status of the legal enforceability of the debt, for example, if the creditor agency receives notice that the debtor has filed for bankruptcy protection.
(j) Fees. Fiscal Service and other debt collection centers may charge Federal agencies fees sufficient to cover the full cost of providing debt collection services authorized by this section. Fiscal Service and other debt collection centers may calculate fees in any manner designed to cover up to the full cost of providing these services, including based on a percentage of collections received on account of a debt while it was being serviced under this section or a flat fee based on actions taken under this section by Fiscal Service or another debt collection center with regard to a debt or group of debts. Such fees may be determined based on overall program costs and need not be based on costs related to the collection of a specific debt. Fiscal Service and debt collection centers are authorized to retain fees from amounts collected and may deposit and use such fees in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g). Fees charged by Fiscal Service and other debt collection centers may be added to the debt as an administrative cost if authorized under 31 U.S.C. 3717(e).
Fees.
Fiscal Service and other debt collection centers may charge Federal agencies fees sufficient to cover the full cost of providing debt collection services authorized by this section. Fiscal Service and other debt collection centers may calculate fees in any manner designed to cover up to the full cost of providing these services, including based on a percentage of collections received on account of a debt while it was being serviced under this section or a flat fee based on actions taken under this section by Fiscal Service or another debt collection center with regard to a debt or group of debts. Such fees may be determined based on overall program costs and need not be based on costs related to the collection of a specific debt. Fiscal Service and debt collection centers are authorized to retain fees from amounts collected and may deposit and use such fees in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g). Fees charged by Fiscal Service and other debt collection centers may be added to the debt as an administrative cost if authorized under 31 U.S.C. 3717(e).
(k) Social Security numbers. When conducting activities for or related to its Centralized Receivables Service or Cross-Servicing program, Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by physical mail or in the subject line of an email. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer these programs, Fiscal Service may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
Social Security numbers.
When conducting activities for or related to its Centralized Receivables Service or Cross-Servicing program, Fiscal Service will ensure that an individual's Social Security number will not be visible on the outside of any package it sends by physical mail or in the subject line of an email. In addition, Fiscal Service generally will redact or partially redact Social Security numbers in documents it sends by mail; however, to administer these programs, Fiscal Service may include Social Security numbers in mailed documents, including, for example:
(1) In interoffice and interagency communications;
(2) In communications with private collection contractor and agents that assist Fiscal Service in its debt collection activities;
(3) In notices and letters, including demand letters and notices to employers regarding wage garnishment, when the Social Security number is (or is embedded in) a creditor agency's account number, debt identification number, or debtor identification number;
(4) In notices to employers regarding wage garnishment;
(5) In response to a request of a debtor or a debtor's representative for records of Fiscal Service's collection activities; and
(6) When required by law.
[[63 FR 16356, Apr. 2, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 22908, Apr. 28, 1999; 81 FR 1319, Jan. 12, 2016; 87 FR 50249, Aug. 16, 2022]]

§ 285.13   Barring delinquent debtors from obtaining Federal loans or loan insurance or guarantees.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Agency means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Agency
means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.
Creditor agency means any Federal agency that is owed a debt.
Creditor agency
means any Federal agency that is owed a debt.
Debt means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States or an agency thereof by a person, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government.
Debt
means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States or an agency thereof by a person, including debt administered by a third party as an agent for the Federal Government.
Federal financial assistance or financial assistance means any Federal loan (other than a disaster loan), loan insurance, or loan guarantee.
Federal financial assistance
or
financial assistance
means any Federal loan (other than a disaster loan), loan insurance, or loan guarantee.
Fiscal Service means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Fiscal Service
means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
Nontax debt means any debt other than a debt under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).
Nontax debt
means any debt other than a debt under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
).
Person means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency.
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency.
Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) Purpose and scope. (1) This section prescribes standards for determining whether an outstanding nontax debt owed to the Federal Government is in delinquent status and whether such delinquency is resolved for the purpose of denying Federal financial assistance to a debtor. In addition, this section prescribes the circumstances under which the Secretary may exempt a class of debts from affecting a debtor's loan eligibility. This section also outlines the factors an agency should consider when determining whether waiver of the general rule in paragraph (c) of this section is appropriate.
Purpose and scope.
(1) This section prescribes standards for determining whether an outstanding nontax debt owed to the Federal Government is in delinquent status and whether such delinquency is resolved for the purpose of denying Federal financial assistance to a debtor. In addition, this section prescribes the circumstances under which the Secretary may exempt a class of debts from affecting a debtor's loan eligibility. This section also outlines the factors an agency should consider when determining whether waiver of the general rule in paragraph (c) of this section is appropriate.
(2) Additional guidance concerning debt collection and debt management is provided in “Managing Federal Receivables” and other Fiscal Service publications.
(3) Nothing in this section requires an agency to grant Federal financial assistance if denial otherwise is authorized by statute, regulation, or agency policies and procedures. For example, if an agency requires borrowers to have a satisfactory credit history, the agency may deny financial assistance even if a delinquent debt has been resolved.
(4) This section does not confer any new rights or benefits on persons seeking Federal financial assistance.
(5) This section applies to any person owing delinquent nontax debt and to any agency that administers a program that grants Federal financial assistance.
(c) General rule. (1) As required by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3720B, a person owing an outstanding nontax debt that is in delinquent status shall not be eligible for Federal financial assistance. This eligibility requirement applies to all persons seeking Federal financial assistance and owing an outstanding nontax debt in delinquent status, including, but not limited to, guarantors. This eligibility requirement applies to all Federal financial assistance even if creditworthiness or credit history is not otherwise a factor for eligibility purposes, e.g., student loans. A person may be eligible for Federal financial assistance only after the delinquency is resolved in accordance with this section. An agency may waive this eligibility requirement in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
General rule.
(1) As required by the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3720B, a person owing an outstanding nontax debt that is in delinquent status shall not be eligible for Federal financial assistance. This eligibility requirement applies to all persons seeking Federal financial assistance and owing an outstanding nontax debt in delinquent status, including, but not limited to, guarantors. This eligibility requirement applies to all Federal financial assistance even if creditworthiness or credit history is not otherwise a factor for eligibility purposes, e.g., student loans. A person may be eligible for Federal financial assistance only after the delinquency is resolved in accordance with this section. An agency may waive this eligibility requirement in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(2) An agency from which a person seeks Federal financial assistance may determine, under standards issued by the agency, that a person is ineligible for Federal financial assistance under this section if:
(i) The person is controlled by a person owing an outstanding nontax debt that is in delinquent status (e.g., a corporation is controlled by an officer, director, or shareholder who owes a debt); or
(ii) The person controls a person owing an outstanding nontax debt that is in delinquent status (e.g., a corporation controls a wholly-owned or partially-owned subsidiary which owes a debt).
(3) A creditor agency may obtain information concerning whether or not a person seeking Federal financial assistance owes a delinquent debt from, among other sources, credit reports, information contained on credit applications, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS). For information about participating in the CAIVRS program, agencies should contact the Director of Information Resources Management, Policy and Management Division, Office of Information Technology, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410.
(d) Delinquent status. (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a debt is in “delinquent status” for purposes of this section if the debt has not been paid within 90 days of the payment due date. The payment due date is the date specified in the creditor agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency repayment agreement).
Delinquent status.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a debt is in “delinquent status” for purposes of this section if the debt has not been paid within 90 days of the payment due date. The payment due date is the date specified in the creditor agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency repayment agreement).
(2) For purposes of this section, a debt is not in delinquent status if:
(i) The person seeking Federal financial assistance has been released by the creditor agency from any obligation to pay the debt, or there has been an adjudication or determination that such person does not owe or does not have to pay the debt;
(ii) The debtor is the subject of, or has been discharged in, a bankruptcy proceeding, and if applicable, the person seeking Federal financial assistance is current on any court authorized repayment plan; or
(iii) The existence of the debt or the agency's determination that the debt is delinquent is being challenged under an ongoing administrative appeal or contested judicial proceeding and the appeal was filed by the debtor in a timely manner. Unless otherwise prohibited, an agency may defer making a determination as to whether or not to extend credit until the appeal process is completed.
(3) Unless the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) apply, a debt is in delinquent status even if the creditor agency has suspended or terminated collection activity with respect to such debt. For example, a delinquent nontax debt that has been written off the books of the creditor agency or reported to the Internal Revenue Service as discharged (i.e., canceled) is in delinquent status for purposes of this section.
i.e.
, canceled) is in delinquent status for purposes of this section.
(4) Nothing in this section defines the terms “delinquent” or “delinquent status” for any purposes other than those described in this section.
(e) Delinquency resolution. (1) For purposes of this section, a person's delinquent debt is resolved only if the person:
Delinquency resolution.
(1) For purposes of this section, a person's delinquent debt is resolved only if the person:
(i) Pays or otherwise satisfies the delinquent debt in full;
(ii) Pays the delinquent debt in part if the creditor agency accepts such part payment as a compromise in lieu of payment in full;
(iii) Cures the delinquency under terms acceptable to the creditor agency in that the person pays any overdue payments, plus all interest, penalties, late charges, and administrative charges assessed by the creditor agency as a result of the delinquency; or
(iv) Enters into a written repayment agreement with the creditor agency to pay the debt, in whole or in part, under terms and conditions acceptable to the creditor agency.
(2) Unless the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section apply, a delinquent debt is not resolved even if the creditor agency has suspended or terminated collection activity with respect to such debt. For example, a delinquent nontax debt that has been written off the books of the creditor agency or reported to the Internal Revenue Service as discharged (i.e. , canceled) would not be “resolved.” If the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section do apply, a delinquent debt is considered resolved. For example, if a portion of a debt has been written off after the person has paid the debt in part where the creditor agency accepts such part payment as a compromise in lieu of payment in full, the entire debt would be deemed “resolved” for purposes of this section in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
i.e.
, canceled) would not be “resolved.” If the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section do apply, a delinquent debt is considered resolved. For example, if a portion of a debt has been written off after the person has paid the debt in part where the creditor agency accepts such part payment as a compromise in lieu of payment in full, the entire debt would be deemed “resolved” for purposes of this section in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(f) Exemptions by the Secretary. (1) Upon the written request and recommendation of the head of the creditor agency to which a class of debts is owed, the Secretary may exempt any class of debts from affecting a debtor's eligibility for Federal financial assistance based on the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3720B and this section.
Exemptions by the Secretary.
(1) Upon the written request and recommendation of the head of the creditor agency to which a class of debts is owed, the Secretary may exempt any class of debts from affecting a debtor's eligibility for Federal financial assistance based on the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3720B and this section.
(2) The creditor agency recommending an exemption for a class of debts will provide the Secretary with information about:
(i) The nature of the program under which the delinquencies have arisen;
(ii) The number, dollar amount, and age of the debts in the program for which exemption is recommended;
(iii) The reasons why an exemption is justified, including why the granting of financial assistance to persons owing the type of debt for which exemption is requested would not be contrary to the Government's goal to reduce losses by requiring proper screening of potential borrowers; and,
(iv) Other information the Secretary deems necessary to consider the exemption request.
(3) The Secretary may exempt a class of debts if exemption is in the best interests of the Federal Government.
(g) Waivers by the agency. (1) The head of an agency from which a person seeks to obtain Federal financial assistance may waive the eligibility requirement described in paragraph (c) of this section. Waivers shall be granted only on a person by person basis. The head of the agency may delegate the waiver authority only to the Chief Financial Officer of the agency. The Chief Financial Officer may redelegate the authority only to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the agency.
Waivers by the agency.
(1) The head of an agency from which a person seeks to obtain Federal financial assistance may waive the eligibility requirement described in paragraph (c) of this section. Waivers shall be granted only on a person by person basis. The head of the agency may delegate the waiver authority only to the Chief Financial Officer of the agency. The Chief Financial Officer may redelegate the authority only to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the agency.
(2) The authorized agency official should balance the following factors when deciding whether to grant a waiver under paragraph (g)(1) of this section:
(i) Whether the denial of the financial assistance to the person would tend to interfere substantially with or defeat the purposes of the financial assistance program or otherwise would not be in the best interests of the Federal Government; and
(ii) Whether the agency's granting of the financial assistance to the person is contrary to the Government's goal to reduce losses from debt management activities by requiring proper screening of potential borrowers.
(3) When balancing the factors described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the authorized agency official should consider:
(i) The age, amount, and cause(s) of the delinquency and the likelihood that the person will resolve the delinquent debt; and
(ii) The amount of total debt, delinquent or otherwise, owed by the person and the person's credit history with respect to repayment of debt.
(4) Each agency shall retain a centralized record of the number and type of waivers granted under this section.
(h) Effect of denial of Federal financial assistance. Nothing contained in this section precludes a person who has been denied Federal financial assistance from obtaining such assistance after that person's delinquent debt has been resolved in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
Effect of denial of Federal financial assistance.
Nothing contained in this section precludes a person who has been denied Federal financial assistance from obtaining such assistance after that person's delinquent debt has been resolved in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[[63 FR 67756, Dec. 8, 1998]]

PART 306—GENERAL REGULATIONS GOVERNING U.S. SECURITIES

[Authority:31 U.S.C. Chapter 31; 5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. Chapter 31; 5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391.
[Source:38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 306.0   Applicability of regulations.

These regulations apply to all U.S. transferable and nontransferable securities, 
1
 other than U.S. Savings Bonds and U.S. Savings Notes, to the extent specified in these regulations, the offering circulars or special regulations governing such securities.
1
other than U.S. Savings Bonds and U.S. Savings Notes, to the extent specified in these regulations, the offering circulars or special regulations governing such securities.
1 These regulations may also be applied to securities issued by certain agencies of the United States and certain Government and Government-sponsored corporations.
1
These regulations may also be applied to securities issued by certain agencies of the United States and certain Government and Government-sponsored corporations.

§ 306.1   Official agencies.

The Bureau of the Fiscal Service of the Department of the Treasury is charged with matters relating to transactions in securities. Correspondence concerning transactions in securities and requests for appropriate forms may be addressed to the Division of Customer Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102.
[[64 FR 38125, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.2   Definitions of words and terms as used in these regulations.

(a) Advance refunding offer is an offer to a holder of a security, usually a year or more in advance of its call or maturity date, to exchange it for another security.
Advance refunding offer
is an offer to a holder of a security, usually a year or more in advance of its call or maturity date, to exchange it for another security.
(b) A bearer security is payable on its face at maturity or call for redemption before maturity in accordance with its terms to bearer. The ownership is not recorded. Title to such a security may pass by delivery without endorsement and without notice. A coupon security is a bearer security with interest coupons attached.
bearer
security is payable on its face at maturity or call for redemption before maturity in accordance with its terms to
bearer.
The ownership is not recorded. Title to such a security may pass by delivery without endorsement and without notice. A
coupon
security is a bearer security with interest coupons attached.
(c) Bureau refers to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Customer Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102.
(d) Call date or date of call is the date fixed in the official notice of call published in the Federal Register as the date on which the obligor will make payment of the security before maturity in accordance with its terms.
Call date
or
date of call
is the date fixed in the official notice of call published in the
Federal Register
as the date on which the obligor will make payment of the security before maturity in accordance with its terms.
(e) Court means one which has jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter.
Court
means one which has jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter.
(f) Department refers to the Department of the Treasury.
Department
refers to the Department of the Treasury.
(g) Depository institution means an entity described in section 19(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi)). Under section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, the term depository institution includes:
Depository institution
means an entity described in section 19(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi)). Under section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, the term
depository institution
includes:
(1) Any insured bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;
(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;
(3) Any savings bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;
(4) Any insured credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752 or any credit union which is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union under 12 U.S.C. 1781;
(5) Any member as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1422; and
(6) Any savings association (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813) which is an insured depository institution, as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq., or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under such Act.
et seq.,
or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under such Act.
(h) Face maturity date is the payment date specified in the text of a security.
Face maturity date
is the payment date specified in the text of a security.
(i) Incompetent refers to a person under any legal disability except minority.
Incompetent
refers to a person under any legal disability except minority.
(j) Joint owner and joint ownership refer to any permitted form of ownership by two or more persons.
Joint owner
and
joint ownership
refer to any permitted form of ownership by two or more persons.
(k) Nontransferable securities are those issued only in registered form which according to their terms are payable only to the registered owners or recognized successors in title to the extent and in the manner provided in the offering circulars or special applicable regulations.
Nontransferable securities
are those issued only in registered form which according to their terms are payable only to the registered owners or recognized successors in title to the extent and in the manner provided in the offering circulars or special applicable regulations.
(l) Payment and redemption, unless otherwise indicated by the context, are used interchangeably for payment at maturity or payment before maturity pursuant to a call for redemption in accordance with the terms of the securities.
Payment
and
redemption,
unless otherwise indicated by the context, are used interchangeably for payment at maturity or payment before maturity pursuant to a call for redemption in accordance with the terms of the securities.
(m) Prerefunding offer is an offer to a holder of a security, usually within the year preceding its call or maturity date, to exchange it for another security.
Prerefunding offer
is an offer to a holder of a security, usually within the year preceding its call or maturity date, to exchange it for another security.
(n) Redemption-exchange is any authorized redemption of securities for the purpose of applying the proceeds in payment for other securities offered in exchange.
Redemption-exchange
is any authorized redemption of securities for the purpose of applying the proceeds in payment for other securities offered in exchange.
(o) A registered security refers to a security the ownership of which is registered on the books of the Department. It is payable at maturity or call for redemption before maturity in accordance with its terms to the person in whose name it is inscribed, or his assignee.
registered
security refers to a security the ownership of which is registered on the books of the Department. It is payable at maturity or call for redemption before maturity in accordance with its terms to the person in whose name it is inscribed, or his assignee.
(p) Securities assigned in blank or securities so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer refers to registered securities which are assigned by the owner or his authorized representative without designating the assignee. Registered securities assigned simply to The Secretary of the Treasury or in the case of Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B—1975-80, to The Secretary of the Treasury for exchange for the current Series EA or EO Treasury notes are considered to be so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer.
Securities assigned in blank
or
securities so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer
refers to registered securities which are assigned by the owner or his authorized representative without designating the assignee. Registered securities assigned simply to
The Secretary of the Treasury
or in the case of Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B—1975-80, to
The Secretary of the Treasury for exchange for the current Series EA or EO Treasury notes
are considered to be so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer.
(q) Signature guarantee program means a signature guarantee program established in response to Rule 17 Ad-15 (17 CFR 240.17Ad-15), issued under authority of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For the purpose of the regulations, in this part, the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP), and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP) are recognized by Treasury as such signature guarantee programs.
Signature guarantee program
means a signature guarantee program established in response to Rule 17 Ad-15 (17 CFR 240.17Ad-15), issued under authority of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For the purpose of the regulations, in this part, the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP), and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP) are recognized by Treasury as such signature guarantee programs.
(r) Taxpayer identifying number means the appropriate identifying number as required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, i.e., an individual's social security account number or an employer identification number. A social security account number is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789; an employer identification number is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers and must be included.
Taxpayer identifying number
means the appropriate identifying number as required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, i.e., an individual's social security account number or an employer identification number. A social security account number is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789; an employer identification number is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers and must be included.
(s) Transferable securities, which may be in either registered or bearer form, refers to securities which may be sold on the market and transfer of title accomplished by assignment and delivery if in registered form, or by delivery only if in bearer form.
Transferable securities,
which may be in either registered or bearer form, refers to securities which may be sold on the market and transfer of title accomplished by assignment and delivery if in registered form, or by delivery only if in bearer form.
(t) Treasury securities, Treasury bonds, Treasury notes, Treasury certificates of indebtedness, and Treasury bills, or simply securities, bonds, notes, certificates, and bills, unless otherwise indicated by the context, refer only to transferable securities.
Treasury securities, Treasury bonds, Treasury notes, Treasury certificates of indebtedness,
and
Treasury bills,
or simply
securities, bonds, notes, certificates,
and
bills,
unless otherwise indicated by the context, refer only to transferable securities.
(u) Voluntary representative means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or make an assignment of a decedent's securities pursuant to § 306.65.
Voluntary representative
means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or make an assignment of a decedent's securities pursuant to § 306.65.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 59 FR 59036, Nov. 15, 1994; 64 FR 38125, July 15, 1999; 70 FR 57429, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 306.3   Transportation charges and risks in the shipment of securities.

The following guidelines apply to the transportation of reissued securities or securities presented for authorized transactions:
(a) The securities may be presented in person by the owner or the owner's agent.
(b) If securities are not presented in person, shipment of the securities is at the owner's risk and expense.
(c) Reissued securities will be delivered by certified mail or by other means, at the risk of the registered owner and at the expense of the Department.
[[64 FR 38125, July 15, 1999]]

Subpart B—Registration


§ 306.10   General.

The registration used must express the actual ownership of a security and may not include any restriction on the authority of the owner to dispose of it in any manner, except as otherwise specifically provided in these regulations. The Treasury Department reserves the right to treat the registration as conclusive of ownership. Requests for registration should be clear, accurate, and complete, conform with one of the forms set forth in this subpart, and include appropriate taxpayer identifying numbers. 
2
 The registration of all bonds owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and, in the case of a fiduciary, the description of the fiduciary capacity. Individual owners should be designated by the names by which they are ordinarily known or under which they do business, preferably including at least one full given name. The name of an individual may be preceded by any applicable title, as, for example, Mrs., Miss, Ms., Dr., or Rev., or followed by a designation such as M.D., D.D., Sr., or Jr. Any other similar suffix should be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from a member of his family. A married woman's own given name, not that of her husband, must be used, for example, Mrs. Mary A. Jones, not Mrs. Frank B. Jones. The address should include, where appropriate, the number and street, route, or any other local feature and the Zip Code.
2
The registration of all bonds owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and, in the case of a fiduciary, the description of the fiduciary capacity. Individual owners should be designated by the names by which they are ordinarily known or under which they do business, preferably including at least one full given name. The name of an individual may be preceded by any applicable title, as, for example, Mrs., Miss, Ms., Dr., or Rev., or followed by a designation such as M.D., D.D., Sr., or Jr. Any other similar suffix should be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from a member of his family. A married woman's own given name, not that of her husband, must be used, for example, Mrs. Mary A. Jones, not Mrs. Frank B. Jones. The address should include, where appropriate, the number and street, route, or any other local feature and the Zip Code.
2 Taxpayer identifying numbers are not required for foreign governments, nonresident aliens not engaged in trade or business within the United States, international organizations and foreign corporations not engaged in trade or business and not having an office or place of business or a financial or paying agent within the United States, and other persons or organizations as may be exempted from furnishing such numbers under regulations of the Internal Revenue Service.
2
Taxpayer identifying numbers are not required for foreign governments, nonresident aliens not engaged in trade or business within the United States, international organizations and foreign corporations not engaged in trade or business and not having an office or place of business or a financial or paying agent within the United States, and other persons or organizations as may be exempted from furnishing such numbers under regulations of the Internal Revenue Service.

§ 306.11   Forms of registration for transferable securities.

The forms of registration described below are authorized for transferable securities:
(a) Natural persons in their own right. In the names of natural persons who are not under any legal disability, in their own right, substantially as follows:
Natural persons in their own right.
In the names of natural persons who are not under any legal disability, in their own right, substantially as follows:
(1) One person. In the name of one individual. Examples:
One person.
In the name of one individual. Examples:
John A. Doe (123-45-6789).
Mrs. Mary C. Doe. (123-45-6789).
Miss Elizabeth Jane Doe (123-45-6789).
An individual who is sole proprietor of a business conducted under a trade name may include a reference to the trade name. Examples:
John A. Doe, doing business as Doe's Home Appliance Store (123-45-6789).
or
John A. Doe (123-45-6789), doing business as Doe's Home Appliance Store.
(2) Two or more persons—general. Securities will not be registered in the name of one person payable on death to another, or in any form which purports to authorize transfer by less than all the persons named in the registration (or all the survivors). 
3
 Securities will not be registered in the forms John A. Doe and Mrs. Mary C. Doe, or either of them or William C. Doe or Henry J. Doe, or either of them and securities so assigned will be treated as though the words or either of them do not appear in the assignments. The taxpayer identifying number of any of the joint owners may be shown on securities registered in joint ownership form.
Two or more persons—general.
Securities will not be registered in the name of one person payable on death to another, or in any form which purports to authorize transfer by less than all the persons named in the registration (or all the survivors).
3
Securities will not be registered in the forms John A. Doe and Mrs. Mary C. Doe, or either of them or William C. Doe or Henry J. Doe, or either of them and securities so assigned will be treated as though the words
or either of them
do not appear in the assignments. The taxpayer identifying number of any of the joint owners may be shown on securities registered in joint ownership form.
3 Warning. Difference Between Transferable Treasury Securities Registered in the Names of Two or More Persons and United States Savings Bonds in Coownership Form. The effect of registering Treasury securities to which these regulations apply in the names of two or more persons differs decidedly from registration of savings bonds in coownership form. Savings bonds are virtually redeemable on demand at the option of either coowner on his signature alone. Transferable Treasury securities are redeemable only at maturity or upon prior call by the Secretary of the Treasury.
3
Warning. Difference Between Transferable Treasury Securities Registered in the Names of Two or More Persons and United States Savings Bonds in Coownership Form. The effect of registering Treasury securities to which these regulations apply in the names of two or more persons differs decidedly from registration of savings bonds in coownership form. Savings bonds are virtually redeemable on demand at the option of either coowner on his signature alone. Transferable Treasury securities are redeemable only at maturity or upon prior call by the Secretary of the Treasury.
4-6 [Reserved]
4-6
[Reserved]
(i) With right of survivorship. In the names of two or more individuals with right of survivorship. Examples:
With right of survivorship.
In the names of two or more individuals with right of survivorship. Examples:
John A. Doe (123-45-6789) or Mrs. Mary C. Doe or the survivor.
John A. Doe (123-45-6789) or Mrs. Mary C. Doe or Miss Mary Ann Doe or the survivors or survivor.
John A. Doe (123-45-6789) or Mrs. Mary C. Doe.
John A. Doe (123-45-6789) and Mrs. Mary C. Doe.
John A. Doe (123-45-6789) and Mrs. Mary C. Doe as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common.
Limited to husband and wife:
John A. Doe (123-45-6789) and Mrs. Mary C. Doe, as tenants by the entireties.
(ii) Without right of survivorship. In the names of two or more individuals in such manner as to preclude the right of survivorship. Examples:
Without right of survivorship.
In the names of two or more individuals in such manner as to preclude the right of survivorship. Examples:
John A. Doe (123-45-6789) and William B. Doe as tenants in common.
John A. Jones as natural guardian of Henry B. Jones, a minor, and Robert C. Jones (123-45-6789), without right of survivorship.
Limited to husband and wife:
Charles H. Brown (123-45-6789) and Ann R. Brown, as partners in community.
(b) Minors and incompetents—(1) Natural guardians of minors. A security may be registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative has legally qualified. Example:
Minors and incompetents
—(1)
Natural guardians of minors.
A security may be registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative has legally qualified. Example:
John R. Jones as natural guardian of Henry M. Jones, a minor (123-45-6789).
Either parent with whom the minor resides, or if he does not reside with either parent, the person who furnishes his chief support, will be recognized as his natural guardian and will be considered a fiduciary. Registration in the name of a minor in his own right as owner or as joint owner is not authorized. Securities so registered, upon qualification of the natural guardian, will be treated as though registered in the name of the natural guardian in that capacity.
(2) Custodian under statute authorizing gifts to minors. A security may be purchased as a gift to a minor under a gifts to minors statute in effect in the State in which either the donor or the minor resides. The security should be registered as provided in the statute, with an identifying reference to the statute if the registration does not clearly identify it. Examples:
Custodian under statute authorizing gifts to minors.
A security may be purchased as a gift to a minor under a gifts to minors statute in effect in the State in which either the donor or the minor resides. The security should be registered as provided in the statute, with an identifying reference to the statute if the registration does not clearly identify it. Examples:
William C. Jones, as custodian for John A. Smith, a minor (123-45-6789), under the California Uniform Gifts to Minors Act.
Robert C. Smith, as custodian for Henry L. Brown, a minor (123-45-6789), under the laws of Georgia; Chapter 48-3, Code of Ga. Anno.
(3) Incompetents not under guardianship. Registration in the form John A. Brown, an incompetent (123-45-6789), under voluntary guardianship, is permitted only on reissue after a voluntary guardian has qualified for the purpose of collecting interest. (See §§ 306.37(c)(2) and 306.57(c)(2)). Otherwise, registration in the name of an incompetent not under legal guardianship is not authorized.
Incompetents not under guardianship.
Registration in the form
John A. Brown, an incompetent (123-45-6789), under voluntary guardianship,
is permitted only on reissue after a voluntary guardian has qualified for the purpose of collecting interest. (See §§ 306.37(c)(2) and 306.57(c)(2)). Otherwise, registration in the name of an incompetent not under legal guardianship is not authorized.
(c) Executors, administrators, guardians, and similar representatives or fiduciaries. A security may be registered in the names of legally qualified executors, administrators, guardians, conservators, or similar representatives or fiduciaries of a single estate. The names and capacities of all the representatives or fiduciaries, as shown in their letters of appointment, must be included in the registration and must be followed by an adequate identifying reference to the estate. Examples:
Executors, administrators, guardians, and similar representatives or fiduciaries.
A security may be registered in the names of legally qualified executors, administrators, guardians, conservators, or similar representatives or fiduciaries of a single estate. The names and capacities of all the representatives or fiduciaries, as shown in their letters of appointment, must be included in the registration and must be followed by an adequate identifying reference to the estate. Examples:
John Smith, executor of will (or administrator of estate) of Henry J. Jones, deceased (12-3456789).
William C. Jones, guardian (or conservator, etc.) of estate of James D. Brown, a minor (or an incompetent) (123-45-6789).
(d) Life tenant under will. A security may be registered in the name of a life tenant followed by an adequate identifying reference to the will. Example:
Life tenant under will.
A security may be registered in the name of a life tenant followed by an adequate identifying reference to the will. Example:
Anne B. Smith, life tenant under the will of Adam A. Smith, deceased (12-3456789).
The life tenant will be considered a fiduciary.
(e) Private trust estates. A security may be registered in the name and title of the trustee or trustees of a single duly constituted private trust, followed by an adequate identifying reference to the authority governing the trust. Examples:
Private trust estates.
A security may be registered in the name and title of the trustee or trustees of a single duly constituted private trust, followed by an adequate identifying reference to the authority governing the trust. Examples:
John Jones and Blank Trust Co., Albany, NY, trustees under will of Sarah Jones, deceased (12-3456789).
John Doe and Richard Roe, trustees under agreement with Henry Jones dated February 9, 1970 (12-3456789).
The names of all trustees, in the form used in the trust instrument, must be included in the registration, except as follows:
(1) If there are several trustees designated as a board or authorized to act as a unit, their names should be omitted and the words Board of Trustees substituted for the word trustees. Example:
Board of Trustees
substituted for the word
trustees.
Example:
Board of Trustees of Blank Co. Retirement Fund, under collective bargaining agreement dated June 30, 1970 (12-3456789).
(2) If the trustees do not constitute a board or otherwise act as a unit, and are either too numerous to be designated in the inscription by names and title, or serve for limited terms, some or all of the names may be omitted. Examples:
John Smith, Henry Jones, et al., trustees under will of Henry J. Smith, deceased (12-3456789).
Trustees under will of Henry J. Smith, deceased (12-3456789).
Trustees of Retirement Fund of Industrial Manufacturing Co., under directors' resolution of June 30, 1950 (12-3456789).
(f) Private organizations (corporations, unincorporated associations and partnerships). A security may be registered in the name of any private corporation, unincorporated association, or partnership, including a nominee, which for purposes of these regulations is treated as the owner. The full legal name of the organization, as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other authority from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration and may be followed, if desired, by a reference to a particular account or fund, other than a trust fund, in accordance with the rules and examples given below:
Private organizations (corporations, unincorporated associations and partnerships).
A security may be registered in the name of any private corporation, unincorporated association, or partnership, including a nominee, which for purposes of these regulations is treated as the owner. The full legal name of the organization, as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other authority from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration and may be followed, if desired, by a reference to a particular account or fund, other than a trust fund, in accordance with the rules and examples given below:
(1) A corporation. The name of a business, fraternal, religious, or other private corporation must be followed by descriptive words indicating the corporate status unless the term corporation or the abbreviation Inc. is part of the name or the name is that of a corporation or association organized under Federal law, such as a national bank or Federal savings and loan association. Examples:
A corporation.
The name of a business, fraternal, religious, or other private corporation must be followed by descriptive words indicating the corporate status unless the term
corporation
or the abbreviation
Inc.
is part of the name or the name is that of a corporation or association organized under Federal law, such as a national bank or Federal savings and loan association. Examples:
Smith Manufacturing Co., a corporation (12-3456789).
The Standard Manufacturing Corp. (12-3456789).
Jones & Brown, Inc.—Depreciation Acct. (12-3456789).
First National Bank of Albemarle (12-3456789).
Abco & Co., Inc., a nominee corporation (12-3456789).
(2) An unincorporated association. The name of a lodge, club, labor union, veterans' organization, religious society, or similar self-governing organization which is not incorporated (whether or not it is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization which is incorporated) must be followed by the words an unincorporated association. Examples:
An unincorporated association.
The name of a lodge, club, labor union, veterans' organization, religious society, or similar self-governing organization which is not incorporated (whether or not it is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization which is incorporated) must be followed by the words
an unincorporated association.
Examples:
American Legion Post No. __, Department of the D.C., an unincorporated association (12-3456789).
Local Union No. 100, Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, an unincorporated association (12-3456789).
Securities should not be registered in the name of an unincorporated association if the legal title to its property in general, or the legal title to the funds with which the securities are to be purchased, is held by trustees. In such a case the securities should be registered in the title of the trustees in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. The term
unincorporated association
should not be used to describe a trust fund, a partnership or a business conducted under a trade name.
(3) A partnership. The name of a partnership must be followed by the words a partnership. Example:
A partnership.
The name of a partnership must be followed by the words
a partnership.
Example:
Smith & Brown, a partnership (12-3456789).
Acme Novelty Co., a limited partnership (12-3456789).
Abco & Co., a nominee partnership (12-3456789).
(g) States, public bodies, and corporations and public officers. A security may be registered in the name of a State or county, city, town, village, school district, or other political entity, public body or corporation established by law (including a board, commission, administration, authority or agency) which is the owner or official custodian of public funds, other than trust funds, or in the full legal title of the public officer having custody. Examples:
States, public bodies, and corporations and public officers.
A security may be registered in the name of a State or county, city, town, village, school district, or other political entity, public body or corporation established by law (including a board, commission, administration, authority or agency) which is the owner or official custodian of public funds, other than trust funds, or in the full legal title of the public officer having custody. Examples:
State of Maine.
Town of Rye, NY.
Maryland State Highway Administration.
Treasurer, City of Springfield, IL.
Treasurer of Rhode Island—State Forestry Fund.
(h) States, public officers, corporations or bodies as trustees. A security may be registered in the title of a public officer or in the name of a State or county or a public corporation or public body acting as trustee under express authority of law. An appropriate reference to the statute creating the trust may be included in the registration. Examples:
States, public officers, corporations or bodies as trustees.
A security may be registered in the title of a public officer or in the name of a State or county or a public corporation or public body acting as trustee under express authority of law. An appropriate reference to the statute creating the trust may be included in the registration. Examples:
Insurance Commissioner of Pennsylvania, trustee for benefit of policyholders of Blank Insurance Co. (12-3456789), under Sec. __, Pa. Stats.
Rhode Island Investment Commission, trustee of General Sinking Fund under Ch. 35, Gen. Laws of RI.
State of Colorado in trust for Colorado Surplus Property Agency.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973; 38 FR 8153, Mar. 29, 1973]]

§ 306.12   Errors in registration.

If an erroneously inscribed security is received, it should not be altered in any respect, but the Bureau should be furnished full particulars concerning the error and asked to furnish instructions.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38125, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.13   Nontransferable securities.

Upon authorized reissue, Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B—1975-80, may be registered in the forms set forth in § 306.11.

Subpart C—Transfers, Exchanges and Reissues


§ 306.15   Transfers and exchanges of securities—closed periods.

(a) General. The transfer of registered securities should be made by assignment in accordance with subpart F of this part. Transferable registered securities are eligible for denominational exchange. Specific instructions for issuance and delivery of the new securities, signed by the owner or his authorized representative, must accompany the securities presented. (Form PD 3905 or PD 1827, as appropriate, may be used.) Denominational exchanges may be made at any time. Securities presented for transfer must be received by the Bureau not less than 1 full month before the date on which the securities mature or become redeemable pursuant to a call for redemption before maturity. Any security so presented which is received too late to comply with this provision will be accepted for payment only.
General.
The transfer of registered securities should be made by assignment in accordance with subpart F of this part. Transferable registered securities are eligible for denominational exchange. Specific instructions for issuance and delivery of the new securities, signed by the owner or his authorized representative, must accompany the securities presented. (Form PD 3905 or PD 1827, as appropriate, may be used.) Denominational exchanges may be made at any time. Securities presented for transfer must be received by the Bureau not less than 1 full month before the date on which the securities mature or become redeemable pursuant to a call for redemption before maturity. Any security so presented which is received too late to comply with this provision will be accepted for payment only.
(b) Closing of transfer books. The transfer books are closed for one full month preceding interest payment dates and call or maturity dates. If the date set for closing of the transfer books falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the books will be closed as of the close of business on the last business day preceding that date. The books are reopened on the first business day following the date on which interest falls due. Registered securities which have not matured or been called, submitted for transfer, reissue, and coupon securities which have not matured or been called, submitted for exchange for registered securities, which are received during the period the books for that loan are closed, will be processed on or after the date such books are reopened. If registered securities are received for transfer, or coupon securities are received for exchange for registered securities, during the time the books are closed for payment of final interest at maturity or call, unless otherwise provided in the offering circular or notice of call, the following action will be taken:
Closing of transfer books.
The transfer books are closed for one full month preceding interest payment dates and call or maturity dates. If the date set for closing of the transfer books falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the books will be closed as of the close of business on the last business day preceding that date. The books are reopened on the first business day following the date on which interest falls due. Registered securities which have not matured or been called, submitted for transfer, reissue, and coupon securities which have not matured or been called, submitted for exchange for registered securities, which are received during the period the books for that loan are closed, will be processed on or after the date such books are reopened. If registered securities are received for transfer, or coupon securities are received for exchange for registered securities, during the time the books are closed for payment of final interest at maturity or call, unless otherwise provided in the offering circular or notice of call, the following action will be taken:
(1) Payment of final interest will be made to the registered owner of record on the date the books were closed.
(2) Payment of principal will be made to the assignee under a proper assignment of the securities.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38125, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.16   Exchanges of registered securities.

No assignments will be required for:
(a) Authorized denominational exchanges of registered securities for like securities in the same names and forms of registration and
(b) Redemption-exchanges, or prefundings, or advance refundings in the same names and forms as appear in the registration or assignments of the securities surrendered.

§ 306.17   Exchanges of registered securities for coupon securities.

Exchanges of registered securities for bearer securities are not permitted.
[[64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.18   Exchanges of coupon securities for registered securities.

Coupon securities presented for exchange for registered securities should have all matured interest coupons detached. All unmatured coupons should be attached, except that if presented when the transfer books are closed (in which case the exchange will be effected on or after the date on which the books are reopened), the next maturing coupons should be detached and held for collection in ordinary course when due. If any coupons which should be attached are missing, the securities must be accompanied by a remittance in an amount equal to the face amount of the missing coupons. The new registered securities will bear interest from the interest payment date next preceding the date on which the exchange is made.

§ 306.19   Denominational exchanges of coupon securities.

Denominational exchanges of bearer securities are not permitted.
[[64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.20   Reissue of registered transferable securities.

Assignments are not required for reissue of registered transferable securities in the name(s) of:
(a) The surviving joint owner(s) of securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons, unless the registration or assignment includes words which preclude the right of survivorship,
(b) A succeeding fiduciary or other lawful successor,
(c) A remainderman, upon termination of a life estate,
(d) An individual, corporation or unincorporated association whose name has been legally changed,
(e) A corporation or unincorporated association which is the lawful successor to another corporation or unincorporated association, and
(f) A successor in title to a public officer or body.
Evidence of survivorship, succession, or change of name, as appropriate, must be furnished. The appropriate taxpayer identifying number also must be furnished if the registration of the securities submitted does not include such number for the person or organization to be named on the reissued securities.

§ 306.21   Reissue of nontransferable securities.

Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B—1975-80, may be reissued only in the names of:
(a) Lawful successors in title,
(b) The legal representatives or distributees of a deceased owner's estate, or the distributees of a trust estate, and
(c) State supervisory authorities in pursuance of any pledge required of the owner under State law, or upon termination of the pledge in the names of the pledgors or their successors.
Bonds presented for reissue must be accompanied by evidence of entitlement.

§ 306.22   Exchange of Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B-1975-80.

Bonds of this series presented for exchange for 1
1/2 percent 5-year Treasury notes must bear duly executed assignments to “The Secretary of the Treasury for exchange for the current series of EA or EO Treasury notes to be delivered to (inserting the name and address of the person to whom the notes are to be delivered).” The notes will bear the April 1 or October 1 date next preceding the date the bonds, duly assigned with supporting evidence, if necessary, are received by the Bureau or a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. Interest accrued at the rate of 2
3/4 percent on the bonds surrendered from the next preceding interest payment date to the date of exchange will be credited, and interest at the rate of 1
1/2 percent on the notes for the same period will be charged and the difference will be paid to the owner.
1/2
percent 5-year Treasury notes must bear duly executed assignments to “The Secretary of the Treasury for exchange for the current series of EA or EO Treasury notes to be delivered to (inserting the name and address of the person to whom the notes are to be delivered).” The notes will bear the April 1 or October 1 date next preceding the date the bonds, duly assigned with supporting evidence, if necessary, are received by the Bureau or a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. Interest accrued at the rate of 2
3/4
percent on the bonds surrendered from the next preceding interest payment date to the date of exchange will be credited, and interest at the rate of 1
1/2
percent on the notes for the same period will be charged and the difference will be paid to the owner.

§ 306.23   Securities eligible to be held in the Legacy Treasury Direct® Book-entry Securities System.

(a) Eligible issues. The Secretary has published in the Federal Register notices describing Treasury issues of bonds and notes issued before August 1, 1986, that are eligible for conversion to the Legacy Treasury Direct book-entry securities system.
Eligible issues.
The Secretary has published in the
Federal Register
notices describing Treasury issues of bonds and notes issued before August 1, 1986, that are eligible for conversion to the Legacy Treasury Direct book-entry securities system.
(b) Conversion of Registered Security to book-entry form to be held in Legacy Treasury Direct. To convert a registered security to book-entry form to be held in Legacy Treasury Direct, the owner must contact the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, P.O. Box 426, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-0426, for instructions. A security that has been converted to book-entry form in Legacy Treasury Direct shall be subject to subpart C and other applicable portions of 31 CFR part 357, and the provisions of 31 CFR part 306 shall no longer apply.
Conversion of Registered Security to book-entry form to be held in Legacy Treasury Direct.
To convert a registered security to book-entry form to be held in Legacy Treasury Direct, the owner must contact the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, P.O. Box 426, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-0426, for instructions. A security that has been converted to book-entry form in Legacy Treasury Direct shall be subject to subpart C and other applicable portions of 31 CFR part 357, and the provisions of 31 CFR part 306 shall no longer apply.
(c) Securities held under subpart O of this part may not be transferred to Legacy Treasury Direct.
[[76 FR 18063, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 306.24   Collection of fees on definitive securities.

A fee shall be charged for each registered security, as defined in § 306.115 (a), issued as a result of a transfer, exchange, reissue, withdrawal from book-entry, or the granting of relief on account of loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement. The applicable fee, and the basis for its determination, will be published by notice in the Federal Register.
Federal Register.
[[60 FR 4377, Jan. 23, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

Subpart D—Redemption or Payment


§ 306.25   Presentation and surrender.

(a) General. Securities, whether in registered or bearer form, are payable in regular course of business at maturity unless called for redemption before maturity in accordance with their terms, in which case they will be payable in regular course of business on the date of call. The Secretary of the Treasury may provide for the exchange of maturing or called securities, or in advance of call or maturity, may afford owners the opportunity of exchanging a security for another security pursuant to a prerefunding or an advance refunding offer. Registered and bearer securities should be presented and surrendered for redemption to the Bureau. No assignments or evidence in support of assignments will be required by or on behalf of the registered owner or assignee for redemption for his or its account, or for redemption-exchange, or exchange pursuant to a prerefunding or an advance refunding offer, if the new securities are to be registered in exactly the same names and forms as appear in the registrations or assignments of the securities surrendered. To the extent appropriate, these rules also apply to securities registered in the title of public officers who are official custodians of public funds.
General.
Securities, whether in registered or bearer form, are payable in regular course of business at maturity unless called for redemption before maturity in accordance with their terms, in which case they will be payable in regular course of business on the date of call. The Secretary of the Treasury may provide for the exchange of maturing or called securities, or in advance of call or maturity, may afford owners the opportunity of exchanging a security for another security pursuant to a prerefunding or an advance refunding offer. Registered and bearer securities should be presented and surrendered for redemption to the Bureau. No assignments or evidence in support of assignments will be required by or on behalf of the registered owner or assignee for redemption for his or its account, or for redemption-exchange, or exchange pursuant to a prerefunding or an advance refunding offer, if the new securities are to be registered in exactly the same names and forms as appear in the registrations or assignments of the securities surrendered. To the extent appropriate, these rules also apply to securities registered in the title of public officers who are official custodians of public funds.
(b) “Overdue” securities. If a bearer security or a registered security assigned in blank, or to bearer, or so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer, is presented and surrendered for redemption after it has become overdue, the Secretary of the Treasury will ordinarily require satisfactory proof of ownership. (Form PD 1071 may be used.) A security shall be considered to be overdue after the lapse of the following periods of time from its face maturity:
“Overdue” securities.
If a bearer security or a registered security assigned in blank, or to bearer, or so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer, is presented and surrendered for redemption after it has become overdue, the Secretary of the Treasury will ordinarily require satisfactory proof of ownership. (Form PD 1071 may be used.) A security shall be considered to be overdue after the lapse of the following periods of time from its face maturity:
(1) One month for securities issued for a term of 1 year or less.
(2) Three months for securities issued for a term of more than 1 year but not in excess of 7 years.
(3) Six months for securities issued for a term of more than 7 years.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973; 38 FR 8432, Apr. 2, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.26   Redemption of registered securities at maturity, upon prior call, or for prerefunding or advance refunding.

Registered securities presented and surrendered for redemption at maturity or pursuant to a call for redemption before maturity need not be assigned, unless the owner desires that payment be made to some other person, in which case assignments should be made to “The Secretary of the Treasury for redemption for the account of (inserting name and address of person to whom payment is to be made). Specific instructions for the issuance and delivery of the redemption check, signed by the owner or his authorized representative, must accompany the securities, unless included in the assignment. (Form PD 3905 may be used.) Payment of the principal will be made by check drawn on the United States Treasury to the order of the persons entitled and mailed in accordance with the instructions received. Securities presented for prerefunding or advance refunding should be assigned as provided in the prerefunding or advance refunding offer.
[[64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.27   Redemption of bearer securities at maturity, upon prior call, or for advance refunding or prerefunding.

All interest coupons due and payable on or before the date of maturity or date fixed in the call for redemption before maturity should be detached from coupon securities presented for redemption and should be collected separately in regular course. All coupons bearing dates subsequent to the date fixed in a call for redemption, or offer of prerefunding or advance refunding, should be left attached to the securities. If any such coupons are missing, the full face amount thereof will be deducted from the payment to be made upon redemption or the prerefunding or advance refunding adjustment unless satisfactory evidence of their destruction is submitted. Any amounts so deducted will be held in the Department to provide for adjustments or refunds in the event it should be determined that the missing coupons were subsequently presented or their destruction is later satisfactorily established. In the absence of other instructions, payment or bearer securities will be made by check drawn to the order of the person presenting and surrendering the securities and mailed to him at his address, as given in the advice accompanying the securities. (Form PD 3905 may be used.) Under appropriate circumstances, payment to a financial institution for detached past due coupons may be made by crediting the amount of the proceeds to the account maintained by the financial institution at the Federal Reserve bank of its district.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

Subpart E—Interest


§ 306.35   Computation of interest.

The interest on Treasury securities accrues and is payable on a semiannual basis unless otherwise provided in the circular offering them for sale or exchange. If the period of accrual is an exact 6 months, the interest accrual is an exact one-half year's interest without regard to the number of days in the period. If the period of accrual is less than an exact 6 months, the accrued interest is computed by determining the daily rate of accrual on the basis of the exact number of days in the full interest period and multiplying the daily rate by the exact number of days in the fractional period for which interest has actually accrued. A full interest period does not include the day as of which securities were issued or the day on which the last preceding interest became due, but does include the day on which the next succeeding interest payment is due. A fractional part of an interest period does not include the day as of which the securities were issued or the day on which the last preceding interest payment became due, but does include the day as of which the transaction terminating the accrual of interest is effected. The 29th of February in a leap year is included whenever it falls within either a full interest period or a fractional part thereof. 
7
7
7 The appendix to this subpart contains a complete explanation of the method of computing interest on a semiannual basis on Treasury bonds, notes, and certificates of indebtedness, and an outline of the method of computing the discount rates on Treasury bills. Also included are tables of computation of interest on semiannual and annual basis.
7
The appendix to this subpart contains a complete explanation of the method of computing interest on a semiannual basis on Treasury bonds, notes, and certificates of indebtedness, and an outline of the method of computing the discount rates on Treasury bills. Also included are tables of computation of interest on semiannual and annual basis.

§ 306.36   Termination of interest.

Securities will cease to bear interest on the date of their maturity unless they have been called for redemption before maturity in accordance with their terms, or are presented and surrendered for redemption-exchange or exchange pursuant to an advance refunding or prerefunding offer, in which case they will cease to bear interest on the date of call, or the exchange date, as the case may be.

§ 306.37   Interest on registered securities.

(a) Method of payment. The interest on registered securities is payable by checks drawn on the United States Treasury to the order of the registered owners, except as otherwise provided herein. Interest checks are prepared by the Department in advance of the interest payment data and are ordinarily mailed in time to reach the addresses on that date. Interest on a registered security which has not matured or been called and which is presented for any transaction during the period the books for that loan are closed will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record. Upon receipt of notice of the death or incompetency of an individual named as registered owner, a change in the name or in the status of a partnership, corporation, or unincorporated association, the removal, resignation, succession, or death of a fiduciary or trustee, delivery of interest checks will be withheld pending receipt and approval of evidence showing who is entitled to receive the interest checks. If the inscriptions on securities do not clearly identify the owners, delivery of interest checks will be withheld pending reissue of the securities in the correct registration. The final installment of interest, unless otherwise provided in the offering circular or notice of call, will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record and mailed in advance of the interest payment date in time to reach the addressee on or about that date. Interest on securities presented for prerefunding or advance refunding will be adjusted as provided in the prerefunding or advance refunding offer.
Method of payment.
The interest on registered securities is payable by checks drawn on the United States Treasury to the order of the registered owners, except as otherwise provided herein. Interest checks are prepared by the Department in advance of the interest payment data and are ordinarily mailed in time to reach the addresses on that date. Interest on a registered security which has not matured or been called and which is presented for any transaction during the period the books for that loan are closed will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record. Upon receipt of notice of the death or incompetency of an individual named as registered owner, a change in the name or in the status of a partnership, corporation, or unincorporated association, the removal, resignation, succession, or death of a fiduciary or trustee, delivery of interest checks will be withheld pending receipt and approval of evidence showing who is entitled to receive the interest checks. If the inscriptions on securities do not clearly identify the owners, delivery of interest checks will be withheld pending reissue of the securities in the correct registration. The final installment of interest, unless otherwise provided in the offering circular or notice of call, will be paid by check drawn to the order of the registered owner of record and mailed in advance of the interest payment date in time to reach the addressee on or about that date. Interest on securities presented for prerefunding or advance refunding will be adjusted as provided in the prerefunding or advance refunding offer.
(b) Change of address. To assure timely delivery of interest checks, owners should promptly notify the Bureau of any change of address. (Form PD 345 may be used.) The notification must be signed by the registered owner or a joint owner or an authorized representative, and should show the owner's taxpayer identifying number, the old and new addresses, the serial number and denomination of each security, the titles of the securities (for example: 4
1/4 percent Treasury Bonds of 1987-92, dated August 15, 1962), and the registration of each security. Notifications by attorneys in fact, trustees, or by the legal representatives of the estates of deceased, incompetent, or minor owners should be supported by proof of their authority, unless, in the case of trustees or legal representatives, they are named in the registration.
Change of address.
To assure timely delivery of interest checks, owners should promptly notify the Bureau of any change of address. (Form PD 345 may be used.) The notification must be signed by the registered owner or a joint owner or an authorized representative, and should show the owner's taxpayer identifying number, the old and new addresses, the serial number and denomination of each security, the titles of the securities (for example: 4
1/4
percent Treasury Bonds of 1987-92, dated August 15, 1962), and the registration of each security. Notifications by attorneys in fact, trustees, or by the legal representatives of the estates of deceased, incompetent, or minor owners should be supported by proof of their authority, unless, in the case of trustees or legal representatives, they are named in the registration.
(c) Collection of interest checks—(1) General. Interest checks may be collected in accordance with the regulations governing the endorsement and payment of Government warrants and checks, which are contained in the current revision of Department Circular No. 21 (part 240 of this chapter).
Collection of interest checks
—(1)
General.
Interest checks may be collected in accordance with the regulations governing the endorsement and payment of Government warrants and checks, which are contained in the current revision of Department Circular No. 21 (part 240 of this chapter).
(2) By voluntary guardians of incompetents. Interest checks drawn to the order of a person who has become incompetent and for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative has been appointed should be returned to the Bureau with a full explanation of the circumstances. For collection of interest, the Department will recognize the relative responsible for the incompetent's care and support or some other person as voluntary guardian for the incompetent. (Application may be made on Form PD 1461.)
By voluntary guardians of incompetents.
Interest checks drawn to the order of a person who has become incompetent and for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative has been appointed should be returned to the Bureau with a full explanation of the circumstances. For collection of interest, the Department will recognize the relative responsible for the incompetent's care and support or some other person as voluntary guardian for the incompetent. (Application may be made on Form PD 1461.)
(d) Nonreceipt, loss, theft, or destruction of interest checks. If an interest check is not received within a reasonable period after an interest payment date, or if a check is lost, stolen, or destroyed after receipt, notification should be sent to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Customer Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102. Notification should include the name and address of the owner, his taxpayer identifying number, and the serial number, denomination, and title of the security upon which the interest was payable. If the check is subsequently received or recovered, the Bureau should be notified.
Nonreceipt, loss, theft, or destruction of interest checks.
If an interest check is not received within a reasonable period after an interest payment date, or if a check is lost, stolen, or destroyed after receipt, notification should be sent to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Customer Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102. Notification should include the name and address of the owner, his taxpayer identifying number, and the serial number, denomination, and title of the security upon which the interest was payable. If the check is subsequently received or recovered, the Bureau should be notified.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.38   Interest on bearer securities.

Unless the offering circular and notice of call provide otherwise, interest on coupon securities is payable in regular course of business upon presentation and surrender of the interest coupons as they mature. Such coupons are payable at participating Federal Reserve banks or by the Bureau. 
8
 Interest on Treasury bills, and any other bearer securities which may be sold and issued on a discount basis and which are payable at par at maturity, is represented by the difference between the purchase price and the par value, and no coupons are attached.
8
Interest on Treasury bills, and any other bearer securities which may be sold and issued on a discount basis and which are payable at par at maturity, is represented by the difference between the purchase price and the par value, and no coupons are attached.
8 Banking institutions will usually cash the coupons without charge as an accommodation to their customers.
8
Banking institutions will usually cash the coupons without charge as an accommodation to their customers.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

Appendix to Subpart E of Part 306—Interest—Computation of Interest on Treasury Bonds, Treasury Notes, and Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness, and Computation of Discount on Treasury Bills—Interest Tables

computation of interest on annual basis
One Day's Interest is
1/365
or
1/366
of 1-Year's Interest
Computation of interest on Treasury bonds, notes, and certificates of indebtedness will be made on an annual basis in all cases where interest is payable in one amount for the full term of the security, unless such term is an exact half-year (6 months), and it is provided that interest shall be computed on a semi-annual basis.
If the term of the securities is exactly 1 year, the interest is computed for the full period at the specified rate regardless of the number of days in such period.
If the term of the securities is less than 1 full year, the annual interest period for purposes of computation is considered to be the full year from but not including the date of issue to and including the anniversary of such date.
If the term of the securities is more than 1 full year, computation is made on the basis of one full annual interest period, ending with the maturity date, and a fractional part of the preceding full annual interest period.
The computation of interest for any fractional part of an annual interest period is made on the basis of 365 actual days in such period, or 366 days if February 29 falls within such annual period.
computation of interest on semiannual basis
One Day's Interest is
1/181
,
1/182
,
1/183
or
1/184
or
1/2
Year's Interest
Computation of interest on Treasury bonds, notes, and certificates of indebtedness will be made on a semiannual basis in all cases where interest is payable for one or more full half-year (6 months) periods, or for one or more full half-year periods and a fractional part of a half-year period. A semiannual interest period is an exact half-year or 6 months, for computation purposes, and may comprise 181, 182, 183 or 184 actual days.
An exact half-year's interest at the specified rate is computed for each full period of exactly 6 months, irrespective of the actual number of days in the half-year.
If the initial interest covers a fractional part of a half-year, computation is made on the basis of the actual number of days in the half-year (exactly 6 months) ending on the day such initial interest becomes due. If the initial interest covers a period in excess of 6 months, computation is made on the basis of one full half-year, ending with the interest due date, and a fractional part of the preceding full half-year period.
Interest for any fractional part of a full half-year period is computed on the basis of the exact number of days in the full period, including February 29 whenever it falls within such a period.
The number of days in any half-year period is shown in the following table:
For the Half-Year
Interest period
Beginning and ending days are 1st or 15th of months listed under interest period (number of days)
Beginning and ending days are last days of months listed under interest period (number of days)
Regular year
Leap year
Regular year
Leap year
January to July
181
182
181
182
February to August
181
182
184
184
March to September
184
184
183
183
April to October
183
183
184
184
May to November
184
184
183
183
June to December
183
183
184
184
July to January
184
184
184
184
August to February
184
184
181
182
September to March
181
182
182
183
October to April
182
183
181
182
November to May
181
182
182
183
December to June
182
183
181
182
1 year (any 2 consecutive half-years)
365
366
365
366
The following are dates for end-of-the-month interest computations.
When interest period ends on—
Interest-computation period will be from but will not include—
January 31
July 31.
February 28 in 365-day year.
August 31.
February 29
Do.
March 30, 31
September 30.
April 30
October 31.
May 30, 31
November 30.
June 30
December 31.
July 31
January 31.
August 29, 30, or 31
February 28 in 365-day year.
February 29 in leap year.
September 30
March 31.
October 30, 31
April 30.
November 30
May 31.
December 30, 31
June 30.
use
of interest tables
In the appended tables decimals are set forth for use in computing interest for fractional parts of interest periods. The decimals cover interest on $1,000 for 1 day in each possible semiannual (Table I), and annual (Table II) interest period, at all rates of interest, in steps of 
1/8 percent, from 
1/8 to 9 percent. The amount of interest accruing on any date (for a fractional part of an interest period) on $1,000 face amount of any issue of Treasury bonds, Treasury notes, or Treasury certificates of indebtedness may be ascertained in the following way:
1/8
percent, from
1/8
to 9 percent. The amount of interest accruing on any date (for a fractional part of an interest period) on $1,000 face amount of any issue of Treasury bonds, Treasury notes, or Treasury certificates of indebtedness may be ascertained in the following way:
(1) The date of issue, the dates for the payment of interest, the basis (semiannual or annual) upon which interest is computed, and the rate of interest (percent per annum) may be determined from the text of the security, or from the official circular governing the issue.
(2) Determine the interest period of which the fraction is a part, and calculate the number of days in the full period to determine the proper column to be used in selecting the decimal for 1 day's interest.
(3) Calculate the actual number of days in the fractional period from but not including the date of issue or the day on which the last preceding interest payment was made, to and including the day on which the next succeeding interest payment is due or the day as of which the transaction which terminates the accrual of additional interest is effected.
(4) Multiply the appropriate decimal (1 day's interest on $1,000) by the number of days in the fractional part of the interest period. The appropriate decimal will be found in the appended table for interest payable semiannually or annually, as the case may be, opposite the rate borne by the security, and in the column showing the full interest period of which the fractional period is a part. (For interest on any other amount, multiply the amount of interest on $1,000 by the other amount expressed as a decimal of $1,000.)
treasury
The methods of computing discount rates on U.S. Treasury bills are given below:
Computation will be made on an annual basis in all cases. The annual period for bank discount is a year of 360 days, and all computations of such discount will be made on that basis. The annual period for true discount is 1 full year from but not including the date of issue to and including the anniversary of such date. Computation of true discount for a fractional part of a year will be made on the basis of 365 days in the year, or 366 days if February 29 falls within the year.
bank discount
The bank discount rate on a Treasury bill may be ascertained by: (1) Subtracting the sale price of the bill from its face value to obtain the amount of discount; (2) dividing the amount of discount by the number of days the bill is to run to obtain the amount of discount per day; (3) multiplying the amount of discount per day by 360 (the number of days in a commercial year of 12 months of 30 days each) to obtain the amount of discount per year; and (4) dividing the amount of discount per year by the face value of the bill to obtain the bank discount rate.
For example:
91-day bill:
Principal amount—maturity value
$100.00
Price at issue—amount received
99.50
Amount of discount
.50
$0.50 ÷ 91 × 360 ÷ $100 = .01978 or 1.978 percent
true discount
The true discount rate on a Treasury bill of not more than one-half year in length may be ascertained by (1 and 2) obtaining the amount of discount per day by following the first two steps described under “Bank Discount”; (3) multiplying the amount of discount per day by the actual number of days in the year from date of issue (365 ordinarily, but 366 if February 29 falls within the year from date of issue) to obtain the amount of discount per year; and (4) dividing the amount of discount per year by the sale price of the bill to obtain the true discount rate.
For example:
91-day bill:
Principal amount—maturity value
$100.00
Price at issue—amount received
99.50
Amount of discount
.50
$0.50 ÷ 91 × 365 ÷ $99.50 = .02016 or 2.016 percent
Table I—Decimal for 1 Day's Interest on $1,000 at Various Rates of Interest, Payable Semiannually or on a Semiannual Basis, in Regular Years of 365 Days and in Leap Years of 366 Days (to Determine Applicable Number of Days, See “Computation of Interest on Semiannual Basis”)
Rate per annum (percent)
Half-year of 184 days
Half-year of 183 days
Half-year of 182 days
Half-year of 181 days
1
⁄
8
$0.003 396 739
$0.003 415 301
$0.003 434 066
$0.003 453 039
1
⁄
4
.006 793 478
.006 830 601
.006 868 132
.006 906 077
3
⁄
8
.010 190 217
.010 245 902
.010 302 198
.010 359 116
1
⁄
2
.013 586 957
.013 661 202
.013 736 264
.013 812 155
5
⁄
8
.016 983 696
.017 076 503
.017 170 330
.017 265 193
3
⁄
4
.020 380 435
.020 491 803
.020 604 396
.020 718 232
7
⁄
8
.023 777 174
.023 907 104
.024 038 462
.024 171 271
1
.027 173 913
.027 322 404
.027 472 527
.027 624 309
1
1
⁄
8
.030 570 652
.030 737 705
.030 906 593
.031 077 348
1
1
⁄
4
.033 967 391
.034 153 005
.034 340 659
.034 530 387
1
3
⁄
8
.037 364 130
.037 568 306
.037 774 725
.037 983 425
1
1
⁄
2
.040 760 870
.040 983 607
.041 208 791
.041 436 464
1
5
⁄
8
.044 157 609
.044 398 907
.044 642 857
.044 889 503
1
3
⁄
4
.047 554 348
.047 814 208
.048 076 923
.048 342 541
1
7
⁄
8
.050 951 087
.051 229 508
.051 510 989
.051 795 580
2
.054 347 826
.054 644 809
.054 945 055
.055 248 619
2
1
⁄
8
.057 744 565
.058 060 109
.058 379 121
.058 701 657
2
1
⁄
4
.061 141 304
.061 475 410
.061 813 187
.062 154 696
2
3
⁄
8
.064 538 043
.064 890 710
.065 247 253
.065 607 735
2
1
⁄
2
.067 934 783
.068 306 011
.068 681 319
.069 060 773
2
5
⁄
8
.071 331 522
.071 721 311
.072 115 385
.072 513 812
2
3
⁄
4
.074 728 261
.075 136 612
.075 549 451
.075 966 851
2
7
⁄
8
.078 125 000
.078 551 913
.078 983 516
.079 419 890
3
.081 521 739
.081 967 213
.082 417 582
.082 872 928
3
1
⁄
8
.084 918 478
.085 382 514
.085 851 648
.086 325 967
3
1
⁄
4
.088 315 217
.088 797 814
.089 285 714
.089 779 006
3
3
⁄
8
.091 711 957
.092 213 115
.092 719 780
.093 232 044
3
1
⁄
2
.095 108 696
.095 628 415
.096 153 846
.096 685 083
3
5
⁄
8
.098 505 435
.099 043 716
.099 021 978
.100 138 122
3
3
⁄
4
.101 902 174
.102 459 016
.103 021 978
.103 591 160
3
7
⁄
8
.105 298 913
.105 874 317
.106 456 044
.107 044 190
4
.108 695 652
.109 289 617
.109 890 110
.110 497 238
4
1
⁄
8
.112 092 391
.112 704 918
.113 324 176
.113 950 236
4
1
⁄
4
.115 489 130
.116 120 219
.116 758 242
.117 403 375
4
3
⁄
8
.118 885 870
.119 535 519
.120 192 308
.120 856 317
4
1
⁄
2
.122 282 609
.122 950 820
.123 626 374
.124 309 394
4
5
⁄
8
.125 679 348
.126 366 120
.127 060 440
.127 762 432
4
3
⁄
4
.129 076 087
.129 781 421
.130 494 505
.131 215 471
4
7
⁄
8
.132 472 826
.133 196 721
.133 928 571
.134 668 500
5
.135 869 565
.136 612 022
.137 362 637
.138 121 548
5
1
⁄
8
.139 266 304
.140 027 322
.140 796 703
.141 574 586
5
1
⁄
4
.142 663 043
.143 442 623
.144 230 769
.145 027 624
5
3
⁄
8
.146 059 783
.146 857 923
.147 664 835
.148 480 663
5
1
⁄
2
.149 456 522
.150 273 224
.151 098 901
.151 933 702
5
5
⁄
8
.152 853 261
.153 688 525
.154 532 967
.155 386 748
5
3
⁄
4
.156 250 000
.157 103 825
.157 967 033
.158 839 706
5
7
⁄
8
.159 646 739
.160 519 126
.161 401 099
.162 292 876
6
.163 043 478
.163 934 426
.164 835 165
.165 745 856
6
1
⁄
8
166 440 217
.167 349 727
.168 269 231
.169 198 895
6
1
⁄
4
.169 836 957
.170 765 027
.171 703 297
.172 651 934
6
3
⁄
8
.173 233 696
.174 180 328
.175 137 363
.176 104 972
6
1
⁄
2
.176 630 435
.177 595 628
.178 571 429
.179 558 011
6
5
⁄
8
.180 027 174
.181 010 929
.182 005 495
.183 011 050
6
3
⁄
4
.183 423 913
.184 426 230
.185 439 560
.186 464 088
6
7
⁄
8
.186 820 652
.187 841 530
.188 873 626
.189 917 127
7
.190 217 391
.191 256 831
.192 307 692
.193 370 166
7
1
⁄
8
.193 614 130
.194 672 131
.195 741 758
.196 823 204
7
1
⁄
4
.197 010 870
.198 087 432
.199 175 824
.200 276 243
7
3
⁄
8
.200 407 609
.201 502 732
.202 609 890
.203 729 282
7
1
⁄
2
.203 804 348
.204 918 033
.206 043 956
.207 182 320
7
5
⁄
8
.207 201 087
.208 333 333
.209 478 022
.210 635 359
7
3
⁄
4
.210 597 826
.211 748 634
.212 912 088
.214 088 398
7
7
⁄
8
.213 994 565
.215 163 934
.216 346 154
.217 541 436
8
.217 391 304
.218 579 235
.219 780 220
.220 994 475
8
1
⁄
8
.220 788 043
.221 994 536
.223 214 286
.224 447 514
8
1
⁄
4
.224 184 783
.225 409 836
.226 648 352
.227 900 552
8
3
⁄
8
.227 581 522
.228 825 137
.230 082 418
.231 353 591
8
1
⁄
2
.230 978 261
.232 240 437
.233 516 484
.234 806 630
8
5
⁄
8
.234 375 000
.235 655 738
.236 950 549
.238 259 669
8
3
⁄
4
.237 771 739
.239 071 038
.240 384 615
.241 712 707
8
7
⁄
8
.241 168 478
.242 486 339
.243 818 681
.245 165 746
9
.244 565 217
.245 901 639
.247 252 747
.248 618 785
9
1
⁄
8
.247 961 957
.249 316 940
.250 686 813
.252 071 823
9
1
⁄
4
.251 358 696
.252 732 240
.254 120 879
.255 524 862
9
3
⁄
8
.254 755 435
.256 147 541
.257 554 945
.258 977 901
9
1
⁄
2
.258 152 174
.259 562 842
.260 989 011
.262 430 939
9
5
⁄
8
.261 548 913
.262 978 142
.264 423 077
.265 883 978
9
3
⁄
4
.264 945 652
.266 393 443
.267 857 143
.269 337 017
9
7
⁄
8
.268 342 391
.269 808 743
.271 291 209
.272 790 055
10
.271 739 130
.273 224 044
.274 725 275
.276 243 094
10
1
⁄
8
.275 135 870
.276 639 344
.278 159 341
.279 696 133
10
1
⁄
4
.278 853 609
.280 054 645
.281 593 407
.283 149 171
10
3
⁄
8
.281 929 348
.283 469 945
.285 027 473
.286 602 210
10
1
⁄
2
.285 326 087
.286 885 246
.288 461 538
.290 055 249
10
5
⁄
8
.288 722 826
.290 300 546
.291 895 604
.293 508 287
10
3
⁄
4
.292 119 565
.293 715 847
.295 329 670
.296 961 326
10
7
⁄
8
.295 516 304
.297 131 148
.298 763 736
.300 414 365
11
.298 913 043
.300 546 448
.302 197 802
.303 867 403
11
1
⁄
8
.302 309 783
.303 961 749
.305 631 868
.307 320 442
11
1
⁄
4
.305 706 522
.307 377 049
.309 065 934
.310 773 481
11
3
⁄
8
.309 103 261
.310 792 350
.312 500 000
.314 226 519
11
1
⁄
2
.312 500 000
.314 207 650
.315 934 066
.317 679 558
11
5
⁄
8
.315 896 739
.317 622 951
.319 368 132
.321 132 597
11
3
⁄
4
.319 293 478
.321 038 251
.322 802 198
.324 585 635
11
7
⁄
8
.322 690 217
.324 453 552
.326 236 264
.328 038 674
12
.326 086 957
.327 868 852
.329 670 330
.331 491 713
Table II—Decimal for 1 Day's Interest on $1,000 at Various Rates of Interest, Payable Annually or on an Annual Basis, in Regular Years of 365 Days and in Leap Years of 366 Days
Rate per annum (percent)
Regular year, 365 days
Leap year, 366 days
1
⁄
8
$0.003 424 658
$0.003 415 301
1
⁄
4
.006 849 315
.006 830 601
3
⁄
8
.010 273 973
.010 245 902
1
⁄
2
.013 698 630
.013 661 202
5
⁄
8
.017 123 288
.017 076 503
3
⁄
4
.020 547 945
.020 491 803
7
⁄
8
.023 972 603
.023 907 104
1
.027 397 260
.027 322 404
1
1
⁄
8
.030 821 918
.030 737 705
1
1
⁄
4
.034 246 575
.034 153 005
1
3
⁄
8
.037 671 233
.037 568 306
1
1
⁄
2
.041 095 890
.040 983 607
1
5
⁄
8
.044 520 548
.044 398 907
1
3
⁄
4
.047 945 205
.047 814 208
1
7
⁄
8
.051 369 863
.051 229 508
2
.054 794 521
.054 644 809
2
1
⁄
8
.058 219 178
.058 060 109
2
1
⁄
4
.061 643 836
.061 475 410
2
3
⁄
8
.065 068 493
.064 890 710
2
1
⁄
2
.068 493 151
.068 306 011
2
5
⁄
8
.071 917 808
.071 721 311
2
3
⁄
4
.075 342 466
.075 136 612
2
7
⁄
8
.078 767 123
.078 551 913
3
.082 191 781
.081 967 213
3
1
⁄
8
.085 616 438
.085 382 514
3
1
⁄
4
.089 041 096
.088 797 814
3
3
⁄
8
.092 465 753
.092 213 115
3
1
⁄
2
.095 890 411
.095 628 415
3
5
⁄
8
.099 315 068
.099 043 716
3
3
⁄
4
.102 739 726
.102 459 016
3
7
⁄
8
.106 164 384
.105 874 317
4
.109 589 041
.109 289 617
4
1
⁄
8
.113 013 699
.112 704 918
4
1
⁄
4
.116 438 356
.116 120 219
4
3
⁄
8
.119 863 014
.119 535 519
4
1
⁄
2
.123 287 671
.122 950 820
4
5
⁄
8
.126 712 329
.126 366 120
4
3
⁄
4
.130 136 986
.129 781 421
4
7
⁄
8
.133 561 644
.133 196 721
5
.136 986 301
.136 612 022
5
1
⁄
8
.140 410 959
.140 027 322
5
1
⁄
4
.143 835 616
.143 442 623
5
3
⁄
8
.147 260 274
.146 857 923
5
1
⁄
2
.150 684 932
.150 273 224
5
5
⁄
8
.154 109 589
.153 688 525
5
3
⁄
4
.157 534 247
.157 103 825
5
7
⁄
8
.160 958 904
.160 519 126
6
.164 383 562
.163 934 426
6
1
⁄
8
.167 808 219
.167 349 727
6
1
⁄
4
.171 232 877
.170 765 027
6
3
⁄
8
.174 657 534
.174 180 328
6
1
⁄
2
.178 082 192
.177 595 628
6
5
⁄
8
.181 506 849
.181 010 929
6
3
⁄
4
.184 931 507
.184 426 230
6
7
⁄
8
.188 356 164
.187 841 530
7
.191 780 822
.191 256 831
7
1
⁄
8
.195 205 479
.194 672 131
7
1
⁄
4
.198 630 137
.198 087 432
7
3
⁄
8
.202 054 795
.201 502 732
7
1
⁄
2
.205 479 452
.204 918 033
7
5
⁄
8
.208 904 110
.208 333 333
7
3
⁄
4
.212 328 767
.211 748 634
7
7
⁄
8
.215 753 425
.215 163 934
8
.219 178 082
.218 579 235
8
1
⁄
8
.222 602 740
.221 994 536
8
1
⁄
4
.226 027 397
.225 409 836
8
3
⁄
8
.229 452 055
.228 825 137
8
1
⁄
2
.232 876 712
.232 240 437
8
5
⁄
8
.236 301 370
.235 655 738
8
3
⁄
4
.239 726 027
.239 071 038
8
7
⁄
8
.243 150 685
.242 486 339
9
.246 575 342
.245 901 639
9
1
⁄
8
.250 000 000
.249 316 940
9
1
⁄
4
.253 424 658
.252 732 240
9
3
⁄
8
.256 849 315
.256 147 541
9
1
⁄
2
.260 273 973
.259 562 842
9
5
⁄
8
.263 698 630
.262 978 142
9
3
⁄
4
.267 123 288
.266 393 443
9
7
⁄
8
.270 547 945
.269 808 743
10
.273 972 603
.273 224 044
10
1
⁄
8
.277 397 260
.276 639 344
10
1
⁄
4
.280 821 918
.280 054 645
10
3
⁄
8
.284 246 575
.283 469 945
10
1
⁄
2
.287 671 233
.286 885 246
10
5
⁄
8
.291 095 890
.290 300 546
10
3
⁄
4
.294 520 548
.293 715 847
10
7
⁄
8
.297 945 205
.297 131 148
11
.301 369 863
.300 546 448
11
1
⁄
8
.304 794 521
.303 961 749
11
1
⁄
4
.308 219 178
.307 377 049
11
3
⁄
8
.311 643 836
.310 792 350
11
1
⁄
2
.315 068 493
.314 207 650
11
5
⁄
8
.318 493 151
.317 622 951
11
3
⁄
4
.321 917 808
.321 038 251
11
7
⁄
8
.325 342 466
.324 453 552
12
.328 767 123
.327 868 852
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973; 38 FR 8153, Mar. 29, 1973; 38 FR 10004, Apr. 23, 1973, as amended at 44 FR 34125, June 14, 1979]]

Subpart F—Assignments of Registered Securities—General


§ 306.40   Execution of assignments.

The assignment of a registered security should be executed by the owner, or his or her authorized representative, in the presence of an individual authorized to certify assignments. All assignments must be made on the backs of the securities, unless otherwise authorized by the Bureau. An assignment by mark (X) must be witnessed not only by a certifying individual, but also by at least one other person, who should add an endorsement substantially as follows: “Witness to signature by mark,” followed by the witness' signature and address.
[[59 FR 59036, Nov. 15, 1994, as amended by 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.41   Form of assignment.

Registered securities may be assigned in blank, to bearer, to a specified transferee, or to the Secretary of the Treasury for redemption or for exchange for other securities offered at maturity, upon call or pursuant to an advance refunding or prerefunding offer. Assignments to “The Secretary of the Treasury,” “The Secretary of the Treasury for transfer,” or “The Secretary of the Treasury for exchange” will not be accepted unless supplemented by specific instructions by or in behalf of the owner.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.42   Alterations and erasures.

If an alteration or erasure has been made in an assignment, the assignor should appear before an authorized certifying officer and execute a new assignment to the same assignee. If the new assignment is to other than the assignee whose name has been altered or erased, a disclaimer from the first-named assignee should be obtained. Otherwise, an affidavit of explanation by the person responsible for the alteration or erasure should be submitted for consideration.

§ 306.43   Voidance of assignments.

An assignment of a security to or for the account of another person, not completed by delivery, may be voided by a disclaimer of interest from that person. This disclaimer should be executed in the presence of an officer authorized to certify assignments of securities. Unless otherwise authorized by the Bureau, the disclaimer must be written, typed, or stamped on the back of the security in substantially the following form:
The undersigned as assignee of this security hereby disclaims any interest herein.
(Signature)
I certify that the above-named person as described, whose identity is well known or proved to me, personally appeared before me the ___ day of ______ (Month and year) at __________ (Place) and signed the above disclaimer of interest.
(
seal
)
(Signature and official designation of certifying officer)
In the absence of a disclaimer, an affidavit or affidavits should be submitted for consideration explaining why a disclaimer cannot be obtained, reciting all other material facts and circumstances relating to the transaction, including whether or not the security was delivered to the person named as assignee and whether or not the affiants know of any basis for the assignee claiming any right, title, or interest in the security. After an assignment has been voided, in order to dispose of the security, an assignment by or on behalf of the owner will be required.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.44   Discrepancies in names.

The Department will ordinarily require an explanation of discrepancies in the names which appear in inscriptions, assignments, supporting evidence or in the signatures to any assignments. (Form PD 385 may be used for this purpose.) However, where the variations in the name of the registered owner, as inscribed on securities of the same or different issues, are such that both may properly represent the same person, for example, “J. T. Smith” and “John T. Smith,” no proof of identity will be required if the assignments are signed exactly as the securities are inscribed and are duly certified by the same certifying officer.

§ 306.45   Certifying individuals.

(a) General. The following individuals may certify assignments of, or forms with respect to, securities:
General.
The following individuals may certify assignments of, or forms with respect to, securities:
(1) Officers and employees of depository institutions, corporate central credit unions, and institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs who have been authorized:
(i) Generally to bind their respective institutions by their acts;
(ii) Unqualifiedly to guarantee signatures to assignments of securities; or
(iii) To certify assignments of securities.
(2) Officers and authorized employees of Federal Reserve Banks and branches.
(3) Officers of Federal Land Banks, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks and Banks for Cooperatives, and Federal Home Loan Banks.
(4) Commissioned officers and warrant officers of the Armed Forces of the United States but only with respect to signatures executed by Armed Forces personnel, civilian field employees, and members of their families.
(5) U.S. Attorneys, Collectors of Customs, and Regional Commissioners, District Directors, and Service Center Directors, Internal Revenue Service.
(6) Judges and Clerks of U.S. Courts.
(7) Such other persons as the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service or his designee may authorize.
(b) Foreign countries. The following individuals are authorized to certify assignments of, or forms with respect to, securities executed in a foreign country:
Foreign countries.
The following individuals are authorized to certify assignments of, or forms with respect to, securities executed in a foreign country:
(1) United States diplomatic or consular officials.
(2) Managers and officers of foreign branches of depository institutions and institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs.
(3) Notaries public and other officers authorized to administer oaths, provided their official position and authority are certified by a United States diplomatic or consular official under seal of the office.
(c) Duties and liabilities of certifying individuals—(1) General. Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a certifying individual shall require that the security or related form be signed in the certifying individual's presence after he or she has established the identity of the person seeking the certification. An employee who is not an officer should insert the words “Authorized signature” in the space provided for the title. A certifying individual and the organization for which he or she is acting are jointly and severally liable for any loss the United States may incur as a result of the individual's negligence in making the certification.
Duties and liabilities of certifying individuals
—(1)
General.
Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a certifying individual shall require that the security or related form be signed in the certifying individual's presence after he or she has established the identity of the person seeking the certification. An employee who is not an officer should insert the words “Authorized signature” in the space provided for the title. A certifying individual and the organization for which he or she is acting are jointly and severally liable for any loss the United States may incur as a result of the individual's negligence in making the certification.
(2) Signature guaranteed. The assignment or related form need not be executed in the presence of a certifying individual if he or she unqualifiedly guarantees the signature, in which case the certifying individual shall, after the signature, add the following endorsement: “Signature guaranteed, First National Bank of Smithville, Smithville, NH, by A.B. Doe, President”, and add the date. In guaranteeing a signature, the certifying individual and the organization for which he or she is acting warrant to the Department that the signature is genuine and that the signer had the legal capacity to execute the assignment or related form.
Signature guaranteed.
The assignment or related form need not be executed in the presence of a certifying individual if he or she unqualifiedly guarantees the signature, in which case the certifying individual shall, after the signature, add the following endorsement: “Signature guaranteed, First National Bank of Smithville, Smithville, NH, by A.B. Doe, President”, and add the date. In guaranteeing a signature, the certifying individual and the organization for which he or she is acting warrant to the Department that the signature is genuine and that the signer had the legal capacity to execute the assignment or related form.
(3) Absence of signature guaranteed by depository institution. A security or related form need not be actually signed by the owner in any case where a certifying individual associated with a depository institution has placed an endorsement on the security or the form reading substantially as follows: “Absence of signature by owner and validity of transaction guaranteed, Second State Bank of Jonesville, Jonesville, NC, by B.R. Butler, Vice President”. The endorsement should be dated, and the seal of the institution should be added. This form of endorsement is an unconditional guarantee to the Department that the institution is acting for the owner under proper authorization.
Absence of signature guaranteed by depository institution.
A security or related form need not be actually signed by the owner in any case where a certifying individual associated with a depository institution has placed an endorsement on the security or the form reading substantially as follows: “Absence of signature by owner and validity of transaction guaranteed, Second State Bank of Jonesville, Jonesville, NC, by B.R. Butler, Vice President”. The endorsement should be dated, and the seal of the institution should be added. This form of endorsement is an unconditional guarantee to the Department that the institution is acting for the owner under proper authorization.
(d) Evidence of certifying individual's authority. The authority of a certifying individual to act is evidenced by affixing to the certification the following:
Evidence of certifying individual's authority.
The authority of a certifying individual to act is evidenced by affixing to the certification the following:
(1) Officers and employees of depository institutions. The institution's seal or signature guarantee stamp; if the institution is an authorized paying agent for U.S. Savings Bonds, a legible imprint of the paying agent's stamp; or, if the institution is a member of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), a legible imprint of the STAMP signature guarantee stamp.
Officers and employees of depository institutions.
The institution's seal or signature guarantee stamp; if the institution is an authorized paying agent for U.S. Savings Bonds, a legible imprint of the paying agent's stamp; or, if the institution is a member of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), a legible imprint of the STAMP signature guarantee stamp.
(2) Officers and authorized employees of institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs. A legible imprint of the program's signature guarantee stamp, e.g., the STAMP, SEMP, or MSP stamp for members of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program, or the New York Stock Exchange Incorporated Medallion Signature Program, respectively.
Officers and authorized employees of institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs.
A legible imprint of the program's signature guarantee stamp, e.g., the STAMP, SEMP, or MSP stamp for members of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program, or the New York Stock Exchange Incorporated Medallion Signature Program, respectively.
(3) Officers and authorized employees of Federal Reserve Banks. Whatever is prescribed in procedures established by the Department.
Officers and authorized employees of Federal Reserve Banks.
Whatever is prescribed in procedures established by the Department.
(4) Officers and employees of corporate central credit unions and other entities listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The entity's seal.
Officers and employees of corporate central credit unions and other entities listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
The entity's seal.
(5) Notaries public, diplomatic or consular officials. The official seal or stamp of the office. If the certifying individual has no seal or stamp, then the official's position must be certified by some other authorized individual, under seal or stamp, or otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the Department.
Notaries public, diplomatic or consular officials.
The official seal or stamp of the office. If the certifying individual has no seal or stamp, then the official's position must be certified by some other authorized individual, under seal or stamp, or otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the Department.
(6) Commissioned or warrant officers of the United States Armed Forces. A statement which sets out the officer's rank and the fact that the person executing the assignment or form is one whose signature the officer is authorized to certify under the regulations in this part.
Commissioned or warrant officers of the United States Armed Forces.
A statement which sets out the officer's rank and the fact that the person executing the assignment or form is one whose signature the officer is authorized to certify under the regulations in this part.
(7) A judge or clerk of the court. The seal of the court.
A judge or clerk of the court.
The seal of the court.
(8) Any other certifying individual. The official seal or stamp of the office. If the certifying individual has no seal or stamp, then the certifying individual's position and signature must be certified by some other authorized individual under official seal or stamp, or otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the Department.
Any other certifying individual.
The official seal or stamp of the office. If the certifying individual has no seal or stamp, then the certifying individual's position and signature must be certified by some other authorized individual under official seal or stamp, or otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the Department.
(e) Interested persons not to act as certifying individual. Neither the transferor, the transferee, nor any person having an interest in a security involved in the transaction may act as a certifying individual. However, an authorized officer or employee of a depository institution or of an institution that is a member of a Treasury-recognized signature guarantee program may act as a certifying individual on a security or related form for transfer of a security to the institution, or any security or related form executed by another individual on behalf of the institution.
Interested persons not to act as certifying individual.
Neither the transferor, the transferee, nor any person having an interest in a security involved in the transaction may act as a certifying individual. However, an authorized officer or employee of a depository institution or of an institution that is a member of a Treasury-recognized signature guarantee program may act as a certifying individual on a security or related form for transfer of a security to the institution, or any security or related form executed by another individual on behalf of the institution.
[[59 FR 59037, Nov. 15, 1994]]

Subpart G—Assignments by or in Behalf of Individuals


§ 306.55   Signatures, minor errors and change of name.

The owner's signature to an assignment should be in the form in which the security is inscribed or assigned, unless such inscription or assignment is incorrect or the name has since been changed. In case of a change of name, the signature to the assignment should show both names and the manner in which the change was made, for example, “John Young, changed by order of court from Hans Jung.” Evidence of the change will be required. However, no evidence is required to support an assignment if the change resulted from marriage and the signature, which must be duly certified by an authorized officer, is written to show that fact, for example, “Mrs. Mary J. Brown, changed by marriage from Miss Mary Jones.”

§ 306.56   Assignment of securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons.

(a) Transfer or exchange. Securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons may be transferred during the lives of all the joint owners only upon assignments by all or on their behalf by authorized representatives. Upon proof of the death of one, the Department will accept an assignment by or in behalf of the survivor or survivors, unless the form of registration or assignment includes words which precludes the right of survivorship. 
9
 In the latter case, in addition to assignment by or in behalf of the survivor or survivors, an assignment in behalf of the decedent's estate will be required.
Transfer or exchange.
Securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons may be transferred during the lives of all the joint owners only upon assignments by all or on their behalf by authorized representatives. Upon proof of the death of one, the Department will accept an assignment by or in behalf of the survivor or survivors, unless the form of registration or assignment includes words which precludes the right of survivorship.
9
In the latter case, in addition to assignment by or in behalf of the survivor or survivors, an assignment in behalf of the decedent's estate will be required.
9 See § 306.11(a) (2) for forms of registration expressing or precluding survivorship.
9
See § 306.11(a) (2) for forms of registration expressing or precluding survivorship.
(b) Advance refunding or prerefunding offers. No assignments are required for exchange of securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons if the securities to be received in the exchange are to be registered in the same names and form. If securities in a different form are to be issued, all persons named must assign, except that in case of death paragraph (a) of this section shall apply.
Advance refunding or prerefunding offers.
No assignments are required for exchange of securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons if the securities to be received in the exchange are to be registered in the same names and form. If securities in a different form are to be issued, all persons named must assign, except that in case of death paragraph (a) of this section shall apply.
(c) Redemption or redemption-exchange—(1) Alternative registration or assignment. Securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons in the alternative, for example, “John B. Smith or Mrs. Mary J. Smith” or “John B. Smith or Mrs. Mary J. Smith or the survivor,” may be assigned by one of them at maturity or upon call, for redemption or redemption-exchange, for his own account or otherwise, whether or not the other joint owner or owners are deceased.
Redemption or redemption-exchange
—(1)
Alternative registration or assignment.
Securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons in the alternative, for example, “John B. Smith or Mrs. Mary J. Smith” or “John B. Smith or Mrs. Mary J. Smith or the survivor,” may be assigned by one of them at maturity or upon call, for redemption or redemption-exchange, for his own account or otherwise, whether or not the other joint owner or owners are deceased.
(2) Joint registration or assignment. Securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons jointly, for example, “John B. Smith and Mrs. Mary J. Smith,” or “John B. Smith and Mrs. Mary J. Smith as tenants in common,” or “John B. Smith and Mary J. Smith as partners in community,” may be assigned by one of them during the lives of all only for redemption at maturity or upon call, and then only for redemption for the account of all. No assignments are required for redemption-exchange for securities to be registered in the same names and forms as appear in the registration or assignment of the securities surrendered. Upon proof of the death of a joint owner, the survivor or survivors may assign securities so registered or assigned for redemption or redemption-exchange for any account, except that, if words which preclude the right of survivorship 
9 appear in the registration or assignment, assignment in behalf of the decedent's estate also will be required.
Joint registration or assignment.
Securities registered in the names of or assigned to two or more persons jointly, for example, “John B. Smith and Mrs. Mary J. Smith,” or “John B. Smith and Mrs. Mary J. Smith as tenants in common,” or “John B. Smith and Mary J. Smith as partners in community,” may be assigned by one of them during the lives of all only for redemption at maturity or upon call, and then only for redemption for the account of all. No assignments are required for redemption-exchange for securities to be registered in the same names and forms as appear in the registration or assignment of the securities surrendered. Upon proof of the death of a joint owner, the survivor or survivors may assign securities so registered or assigned for redemption or redemption-exchange for any account, except that, if words which preclude the right of survivorship
9
appear in the registration or assignment, assignment in behalf of the decedent's estate also will be required.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.57   Minors and incompetents.

(a) Assignments by natural guardian of securities registered in name of minor. Securities registered in the name of a minor for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative has qualified may be assigned by the natural guardian upon qualification. (Form PD 2481 may be used for this purpose.)
Assignments by natural guardian of securities registered in name of minor.
Securities registered in the name of a minor for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative has qualified may be assigned by the natural guardian upon qualification. (Form PD 2481 may be used for this purpose.)
(b) Assignments of securities registered in name of natural guardian of minor. Securities registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor may be assigned by the natural guardian for any authorized transaction except one for the apparent benefit of the natural guardian. If the natural guardian in whose name the securities are registered is deceased or is no longer qualified to act as natural guardian, the securities may be assigned by the person then acting as natural guardian. The assignment by the new natural guardian should be supported by proof of the death or disqualification of the former natural guardian and by evidence of his own status as natural guardian. (Form PD 2481 may be used for this purpose.) No assignment by a natural guardian will be accepted after receipt of notice of the minor's attainment of majority, removal of his disability of minority, disqualification of the natural guardian to act as such, qualification of a legal guardian or similar representative, or the death of the minor.
Assignments of securities registered in name of natural guardian of minor.
Securities registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor may be assigned by the natural guardian for any authorized transaction except one for the apparent benefit of the natural guardian. If the natural guardian in whose name the securities are registered is deceased or is no longer qualified to act as natural guardian, the securities may be assigned by the person then acting as natural guardian. The assignment by the new natural guardian should be supported by proof of the death or disqualification of the former natural guardian and by evidence of his own status as natural guardian. (Form PD 2481 may be used for this purpose.) No assignment by a natural guardian will be accepted after receipt of notice of the minor's attainment of majority, removal of his disability of minority, disqualification of the natural guardian to act as such, qualification of a legal guardian or similar representative, or the death of the minor.
(c) Assignments by voluntary guardian of incompetents. Registered securities belonging to an incompetent for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative is legally qualified may be assigned by the relative responsible for his care and support or some other person as voluntary guardian:
Assignments by voluntary guardian of incompetents.
Registered securities belonging to an incompetent for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative is legally qualified may be assigned by the relative responsible for his care and support or some other person as voluntary guardian:
(1) For redemption, if the proceeds of the securities are needed to pay expenses already incurred, or to be incurred during any 90-day period, for the care and support of the incompetent or his legal dependents.
(2) For redemption-exchange, if the securities are matured or have been called, or pursuant to an advance refunding or prerefunding offer, for reinvestment in other securities to be registered in the form “A, an incompetent (123-45-6789) under voluntary guardianship.”
An application on Form PD 1461 by the person seeking authority to act as voluntary guardian will be required.
(d) Assignments by legal guardians of minors or incompetents. Securities registered in the name and title of the legal guardian or similar representative of the estate of a minor or incompetent may be assigned by the representative for any authorized transaction without proof of his qualification. Assignments by a representative of any other securities belonging to a minor or incompetent must be supported by properly certified evidence of qualification. The evidence must be dated not more than 1 year before the date of the assignments and must contain a statement showing the appointment is in full force unless (1) it shows the appointment was made not more than 1 year before the date of the assignment, or (2) the representative or a corepresentative is a corporation. An assignment by the representative will not be accepted after receipt of notice of termination of the guardianship, except for transfer to the former ward.
Assignments by legal guardians of minors or incompetents.
Securities registered in the name and title of the legal guardian or similar representative of the estate of a minor or incompetent may be assigned by the representative for any authorized transaction without proof of his qualification. Assignments by a representative of any other securities belonging to a minor or incompetent must be supported by properly certified evidence of qualification. The evidence must be dated not more than 1 year before the date of the assignments and must contain a statement showing the appointment is in full force unless (1) it shows the appointment was made not more than 1 year before the date of the assignment, or (2) the representative or a corepresentative is a corporation. An assignment by the representative will not be accepted after receipt of notice of termination of the guardianship, except for transfer to the former ward.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973, as amended at 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

§ 306.58   Nontransferable securities.

The provisions of this subpart, so far as applicable, govern transactions in Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B-1975-80.

Subpart H—Assignments in Behalf of Estates of Deceased Owners


§ 306.65   Decedent's estate.

(a) Estate is being administered. (1) A legal representative of a deceased owner's estate may request payment of matured securities to the estate, or may assign securities to or for the benefit of the persons entitled.
Estate is being administered.
(1) A legal representative of a deceased owner's estate may request payment of matured securities to the estate, or may assign securities to or for the benefit of the persons entitled.
(2) Appropriate proof of appointment for the legal representative of the estate is required. Letters of appointment must be dated not more than one year prior to the date of submission of the letters of appointment.
(b) Estate has been settled previously. If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment of matured securities, or may request assignment of unmatured securities. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence is required.
Estate has been settled previously.
If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment of matured securities, or may request assignment of unmatured securities. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence is required.
(c) Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile. If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under summary or small estates procedures under applicable local law may request payment of matured securities, or may request assignment of the securities. Appropriate evidence is required.
Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile.
If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under summary or small estates procedures under applicable local law may request payment of matured securities, or may request assignment of the securities. Appropriate evidence is required.
(d) When administration is required. If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
When administration is required.
If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
(e) Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered—(1) General. A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to request payment of a decedent's matured securities or to make an assignment of a decedent's unmatured securities. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's securities and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered
—(1)
General.
A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to request payment of a decedent's matured securities or to make an assignment of a decedent's unmatured securities. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's securities and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
(i) There has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, and no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used;
(ii) The total redemption value of the Treasury securities and held payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is $100,000 or less as of the date of death; and
(iii) There is a person eligible to serve as the voluntary representative according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) Authority of voluntary representative. A voluntary representative may:
Authority of voluntary representative.
A voluntary representative may:
(i) Request payment of the decedent's matured securities on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death;
(ii) Assign the decedent's securities to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death.
(3) Order of precedence for voluntary representative. An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: a surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
Order of precedence for voluntary representative.
An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: a surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
(4) Liability. By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or securities is to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or securities. Upon payment or assignment of the securities at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
Liability.
By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or securities is to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or securities. Upon payment or assignment of the securities at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
(f) Creditor. If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law. The claim may only be satisfied by the proceeds of matured securities.
Creditor.
If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law. The claim may only be satisfied by the proceeds of matured securities.
[[70 FR 57429, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§§ 306.66-306.67   [Reserved]


§ 306.68   Nontransferable securities.

The provisions of this subpart, so far as applicable, govern transactions in Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B-1975-80.

Subpart I—Assignments by or in Behalf of Trustees and Similar Fiduciaries


§ 306.75   Individual fiduciaries.

(a) General. Securities registered in, or assigned to, the names and titles of individual fiduciaries will be accepted for any authorized transaction upon assignment by the designated fiduciaries without proof of their qualification. If the fiduciaries in whose names the securities are registered, or to whom they have been assigned, have been succeeded by other fiduciaries, evidence of successorship must be furnished. If the appointment of a successor is not required under the terms of the trust instrument or otherwise and is not contemplated, assignments by the surviving or remaining fiduciary or fiduciaries must be supported by appropriate proof. This requires:
General.
Securities registered in, or assigned to, the names and titles of individual fiduciaries will be accepted for any authorized transaction upon assignment by the designated fiduciaries without proof of their qualification. If the fiduciaries in whose names the securities are registered, or to whom they have been assigned, have been succeeded by other fiduciaries, evidence of successorship must be furnished. If the appointment of a successor is not required under the terms of the trust instrument or otherwise and is not contemplated, assignments by the surviving or remaining fiduciary or fiduciaries must be supported by appropriate proof. This requires:
(1) Proof of the death, resignation, removal or disqualification of the former fiduciary and
(2) Evidence that the surviving or remaining fiduciary or fiduciaries are fully qualified to administer the fiduciary estate, which may be in the form of a certificate by them showing the appointment of a successor has not been applied for, is not contemplated and is not necessary under the terms of the trust instrument or otherwise.
Assignments of securities registered in the titles, without the names of the fiduciaries, for example, “Trustees of the George E. White Memorial Scholarship Fund under deed of trust dated 11/10/40, executed by John W. White,” must be supported by proof that the assignors are the qualified and acting trustees of the designated trust estate, unless they are empowered to act as a unit in which case the provisions of § 306.76 shall apply. (Form PD 2446 may be used to furnish proof of incumbency of fiduciaries.) Assignments by fiduciaries of securities not registered or assigned in such manner as to show that they belong to the estate for which the assignors are acting must also be supported by evidence that the estate is entitled to the securities.
(b) Life tenants. Upon termination of a life estate by reason of the death of the life tenant in whose name a security is registered, or to whom it has been assigned, the security will be accepted for any authorized transaction upon assignment by the remainderman, supported by evidence of entitlement.
Life tenants.
Upon termination of a life estate by reason of the death of the life tenant in whose name a security is registered, or to whom it has been assigned, the security will be accepted for any authorized transaction upon assignment by the remainderman, supported by evidence of entitlement.

§ 306.76   Fiduciaries acting as a unit.

Securities registered in the name of or assigned to a board, committee or other body authorized to act as a unit for any public or private trust estate may be assigned for any authorized transaction by anyone authorized to act in behalf of such body. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the assignments must be supported by a copy of a resolution adopted by the body, properly certified under its seal, or, if none, sworn to by a member of the body having access to its records. (Form PD 2495 may be used.) If the person assigning is designated in the resolution by title only, his incumbency must be duly certified by another member of the body. (Form PD 2446 may be used.) If the fiduciaries of any trust estate are empowered to act as a unit, although not designated as a board, committee or other body, securities registered in their names or assigned to them as such, or in their titles without their names, may be assigned by anyone authorized by the group to act in its behalf. Such assignments may be supported by a sworn copy of a resolution adopted by the group in accordance with the terms of the trust instrument, and proof of their authority to act as a unit may be required. As an alternative, assignments by all the fiduciaries, supported by proof of their incumbency, if not named on the securities, will be accepted.
[[38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973; 38 FR 10004, Apr. 23, 1973]]

§ 306.77   Corepresentatives and fiduciaries.

If there are two or more executors, administrators, guardians or similar representatives, or trustees of an estate, all must unite in the assignment of any securities belonging to the estate. However, when a statute, a decree of court, or the instrument under which the representatives or fiduciaries are acting provides otherwise, assignments in accordance with their authority will be accepted. If the securities have matured or been called and are submitted for redemption for the account of all, or for redemption-exchange or pursuant to an advance refunding or prerefunding offer, and the securities offered in exchange are to be registered in the names of all, no assignment is required.

§ 306.78   Nontransferable securities.

The provisions of this subpart, so far as applicable, govern assignments of Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B-1975-80.

Subpart J—Assignments in Behalf of Private or Public Organizations


§ 306.85   Private corporations and unincorporated associations (including nominees).

Securities registered in the name of, or assigned to, an unincorporated association, or a private corporation in its own right or in a representative or fiduciary capacity, or as nominee, may be assigned in its behalf for any authorized transaction by any duly authorized officer or officers. Evidence, in the form of a resolution of the governing body, authorizing the assigning officer to assign, or to sell, or to otherwise dispose of the securities will ordinarily be required. Resolutions may relate to any or all registered securities owned by the organization or held by it in a representative or fiduciary capacity. (Form PD 1010, or any substantially similar form, may be used when the authority relates to specific securities; Form PD 1011, or any substantially similar form, may be used for securities generally.) If the officer derives his authority from a charter, constitution or bylaws, a copy, or a pertinent extract therefrom, properly certified, will be required in lieu of a resolution. If the resolution or other supporting document shows the title of an authorized officer, without his name, it must be supplemented by a certificate of incumbency. (Form PD 1014 may be used.)

§ 306.86   Change of name and succession of private organizations.

If a private corporation or unincorporated association changes its name or is lawfully succeeded by another corporation or unincorporated association, its securities may be assigned in behalf of the organization in its new name or that of its successor by an authorized officer in accordance with § 306.85. The assignment must be supported by evidence of the change of name or successorship.

§ 306.87   Partnerships (including nominee partnerships).

An assignment of a security registered in the name of or assigned to a partnership must be executed by a general partner. Upon dissolution of a partnership, assignment by all living partners and by the persons entitled to assign in behalf of any deceased partner's estate will be required unless the laws of the jurisdiction authorize a general partner to bind the partnership by any act appropriate for winding up partnership affairs. In those cases where assignments by or in behalf of all partners are required this fact must be shown in the assignment; otherwise, an affidavit by a former general partner must be furnished identifying all the persons who had been partners immediately prior to dissolution. Upon voluntary dissolution, for any jurisdiction where a general partner may not act in winding up partnership affairs, an assignment by a liquidating partner, as such, must be supported by a duly executed agreement among the partners appointing the liquidating partner.

§ 306.88   Political entities and public corporations.

Securities registered in the name of, or assigned to, a State, county, city, town, village, school district or other political entity, public body or corporation, may be assigned by a duly authorized officer, supported by evidence of his authority.

§ 306.89   Public officers.

Securities registered in the name of, or assigned to, a public officer designated by title may be assigned by such officer, supported by evidence of incumbency. Assignments for the officer's own apparent individual benefit will not be recognized.

§ 306.90   Nontransferable securities.

The provisions of this subpart apply to Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B-1975-80.

Subpart K—Attorneys in Fact


§ 306.95   Attorneys in fact.

(a) General. Assignments by an attorney in fact will be recognized if supported by an adequate power of attorney. Every power must be executed in the presence of an authorized certifying officer under the conditions set out in § 306.45 for certification of assignments. Powers need not be submitted to support redemption-exchanges or exchanges pursuant to advance refunding or prefunding offers where the securities to be issued are to be registered in the same names and forms as appear in the inscriptions or assignments of the securities surrendered. In all other cases, the original power, or a photocopy showing the grantor's autograph signature, properly certified, must be submitted, together with the security assigned on the owner's behalf by the attorney in fact. An assignment by a substitute attorney in fact must be supported by an authorizing power of attorney and power of substitution. An assignment by an attorney in fact or a substitute attorney in fact for the apparent benefit of either will not be accepted unless expressly authorized. (Form PD 1001 or 1003, as appropriate, may be used to appoint an attorney in fact. An attorney in fact may use Form PD 1006 or 1008 to appoint a substitute. However, any form sufficient in substance may be used.) If there are two or more joint attorneys in fact or substitutes, all must unite in an assignment, unless the power authorizes less than all to act. A power of attorney or of substitution not coupled with an interest will be recognized until the Bureau receives proof of revocation or proof of the grantor's death or incompetency.
General.
Assignments by an attorney in fact will be recognized if supported by an adequate power of attorney. Every power must be executed in the presence of an authorized certifying officer under the conditions set out in § 306.45 for certification of assignments. Powers need not be submitted to support redemption-exchanges or exchanges pursuant to advance refunding or prefunding offers where the securities to be issued are to be registered in the same names and forms as appear in the inscriptions or assignments of the securities surrendered. In all other cases, the original power, or a photocopy showing the grantor's autograph signature, properly certified, must be submitted, together with the security assigned on the owner's behalf by the attorney in fact. An assignment by a substitute attorney in fact must be supported by an authorizing power of attorney and power of substitution. An assignment by an attorney in fact or a substitute attorney in fact for the apparent benefit of either will not be accepted unless expressly authorized. (Form PD 1001 or 1003, as appropriate, may be used to appoint an attorney in fact. An attorney in fact may use Form PD 1006 or 1008 to appoint a substitute. However, any form sufficient in substance may be used.) If there are two or more joint attorneys in fact or substitutes, all must unite in an assignment, unless the power authorizes less than all to act. A power of attorney or of substitution not coupled with an interest will be recognized until the Bureau receives proof of revocation or proof of the grantor's death or incompetency.
(b) For legal representatives and fiduciaries. Assignments by an attorney in fact or substitute attorney in fact for a legal representative or fiduciary, in addition to the power of attorney and of substitution, must be supported by evidence, if any, as required by §§ 306.57(d), 306.66(b), 306.75, and 306.76. Powers must specifically designate the securities to be assigned.
For legal representatives and fiduciaries.
Assignments by an attorney in fact or substitute attorney in fact for a legal representative or fiduciary, in addition to the power of attorney and of substitution, must be supported by evidence, if any, as required by §§ 306.57(d), 306.66(b), 306.75, and 306.76. Powers must specifically designate the securities to be assigned.
(c) For corporations or unincorporated associations. Assignments by an attorney in fact or a substitute attorney in fact in behalf of a corporation or unincorporated association, in addition to the power of attorney and power of substitution, must be supported by one of the following documents certified under seal of the organization, or, if it has no seal, sworn to by an officer who has access to the records:
For corporations or unincorporated associations.
Assignments by an attorney in fact or a substitute attorney in fact in behalf of a corporation or unincorporated association, in addition to the power of attorney and power of substitution, must be supported by one of the following documents certified under seal of the organization, or, if it has no seal, sworn to by an officer who has access to the records:
(1) A copy of the resolution of the governing body authorizing an officer to appoint an attorney in fact, with power of substitution, if pertinent, to assign, or to sell, or to otherwise dispose of, the securities, or
(2) A copy of the charter, constitution, or bylaws, or a pertinent extract therefrom, showing the authority of an officer to appoint an attorney in fact, or
(3) A copy of the resolution of the governing body directly appointing an attorney in fact.
If the resolution or other supporting document shows only the title of the authorized officer, without his name, a certificate of incumbency must also be furnished. (Form PD 1014 may be used.) The power may not be broader than the resolution or other authority.
(d) For public corporations. A general power of attorney in behalf of a public corporation will be recognized only if it is authorized by statute.
For public corporations.
A general power of attorney in behalf of a public corporation will be recognized only if it is authorized by statute.

§ 306.96   Nontransferable securities.

The provisions of this subpart shall apply to nontransferable securities, subject only to the limitations imposed by the terms of the particular issues.

Subpart L—Transfer Through Judicial Proceedings


§ 306.100   Transferable securities.

The Department will recognize valid judicial proceedings affecting the ownership of or interest in transferable securities, upon presentation of the securities together with evidence of the proceedings. In the case of securities registered in the names of two or more persons, the extent of their respective interests in the securities must be determined by the court in proceedings to which they are parties or must otherwise be validly established. 
10
10
10 Title in a finder claiming ownership of a registered security will not be recognized. A finder claiming ownership of a bearer security or a registered security assigned in blank or so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer must perfect his title in accordance with the provisions of State law. If there are no such provisions, the Department will not recognize his title to the security.
10
Title in a finder claiming ownership of a registered security will not be recognized. A finder claiming ownership of a bearer security or a registered security assigned in blank or so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer must perfect his title in accordance with the provisions of State law. If there are no such provisions, the Department will not recognize his title to the security.

§ 306.101   Evidence required.

Copies of a final judgment, decree, or order of court and of any necessary supplementary proceedings must be submitted. Assignments by a trustee in bankruptcy or a receiver of an insolvent's estate must be supported by evidence of his qualification. Assignments by a receiver in equity or a similar court officer must be supported by a copy of an order authorizing him to assign, or to sell, or to otherwise dispose of, the securities. Where the documents are dated more than 6 months prior to presentation of the securities, there must also be submitted a certificate dated within 6 months of presentation of the securities, showing the judgment, decree, or order, or evidence of qualification, is in full force. Any such evidence must be certified under court seal.

§ 306.102   Nontransferable securities.

The provisions of this subpart shall apply to Treasury Bonds, Investment Series B-1975-80, except that prior to maturity any reference to assignments shall be deemed to refer to assignments of the bonds for exchange for the current series of 1
1/2 percent 5-year EA or EO Treasury notes.
1/2
percent 5-year EA or EO Treasury notes.

Subpart M—Requests for Suspension of Transactions


§ 306.105   Requests for suspension of transactions in registered securities.

(a) Timely notice. If prior to the time a registered security bearing an apparently valid assignment has been functioned, a claim is received from the owner or his authorized representative showing that:
Timely notice.
If prior to the time a registered security bearing an apparently valid assignment has been functioned, a claim is received from the owner or his authorized representative showing that:
(1) The security was lost, stolen, or destroyed and that it was unassigned, or not so assigned as to have become in effect payable to bearer, or
(2) The assignment was affected by fraud, the transaction for which the security was received will be suspended.
The interested parties will be given a reasonable period of time in which to effect settlement of their interests by agreement, or to institute judicial proceedings.
(b) Late notice. If, after a registered security has been transferred, exchanged, or redeemed in reliance on an apparently valid assignment, an owner notifies the Bureau that the assignment was affected by fraud or that the security had been lost or stolen, the Department will undertake only to furnish available information.
Late notice.
If, after a registered security has been transferred, exchanged, or redeemed in reliance on an apparently valid assignment, an owner notifies the Bureau that the assignment was affected by fraud or that the security had been lost or stolen, the Department will undertake only to furnish available information.
(c) Forged assignments. A claim that an assignment of a registered security is a forgery will be investigated. If it is established that the assignment was in fact forged and that the owner did not authorize or ratify it, or receive any benefit therefrom, the Department will recognize his ownership and grant appropriate relief.
Forged assignments.
A claim that an assignment of a registered security is a forgery will be investigated. If it is established that the assignment was in fact forged and that the owner did not authorize or ratify it, or receive any benefit therefrom, the Department will recognize his ownership and grant appropriate relief.

§ 306.106   Requests for suspension of transactions in bearer securities.

(a) Securities not overdue. Neither the Department nor any of its agents will accept notice of any claim or of pending judicial proceedings by any person for the purpose of suspending transactions in bearer securities, or registered securities so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer which are not overdue as defined in § 306.25. 
11
 However, if the securities are received and retired, the department will undertake to notify persons who appear to be entitled to any available information concerning the source from which the securities were received.
Securities not overdue.
Neither the Department nor any of its agents will accept notice of any claim or of pending judicial proceedings by any person for the purpose of suspending transactions in bearer securities, or registered securities so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer which are not overdue as defined in § 306.25.
11
However, if the securities are received and retired, the department will undertake to notify persons who appear to be entitled to any available information concerning the source from which the securities were received.
11 It has been the longstanding policy of the Department to assume no responsibility for the protection of bearer securities not in the possession of persons claiming rights therein and to give no effect to any notice of such claims. This policy was formalized on April 27, 1867, when the Secretary of the Treasury issued the following statement:
11
It has been the longstanding policy of the Department to assume no responsibility for the protection of bearer securities not in the possession of persons claiming rights therein and to give no effect to any notice of such claims. This policy was formalized on April 27, 1867, when the Secretary of the Treasury issued the following statement:
“In consequence of the increasing trouble, wholly without practical benefit, arising from notices which are constantly received at the Department respecting the loss of coupon bonds, which are payable to bearer, and of Treasury notes issued and remaining in blank at the time of loss, it becomes necessary to give this public notice, that the Government cannot protect and will not undertake to protect the owners of such bonds and notes against the consequences of their own fault or misfortune.”
“Hereafter all bonds, notes, and coupons, payable to bearer, and Treasury notes issued and remaining in blank, will be paid to the party presenting them in pursuance of the regulations of the Department, in the course of regular business; and no attention will be paid to caveats which may be filed for the purpose of preventing such payment.”
(b) Overdue securities. Reports that bearer securities, or registered securities so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer, were lost, stolen, or possibly destroyed after they became overdue as defined in § 306.25 will be accepted by the Bureau for the purpose of suspending redemption of the securities if the claimant establishes his interest. If the securities are presented, their redemption will be suspended and the presenter and the claimant will each be given an opportunity to establish ownership.
Overdue securities.
Reports that bearer securities, or registered securities so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer, were lost, stolen, or possibly destroyed after they became overdue as defined in § 306.25 will be accepted by the Bureau for the purpose of suspending redemption of the securities if the claimant establishes his interest. If the securities are presented, their redemption will be suspended and the presenter and the claimant will each be given an opportunity to establish ownership.

Subpart N—Relief for Loss, Theft, Destruction, Mutilation, or Defacement of Securities


§ 306.110   Statutory authority and requirements.

Relief is authorized, under certain conditions, for the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement of U.S. securities, whether before, at, or after maturity. A bond of indemnity, in such form and with such surety, sureties or security as may be required to protect the interests of the United States, is required as a condition of relief on account of any bearer security or any registered security assigned in blank or so assigned as to become in effect payable to bearer, and is ordinarily required in the case of unassigned registered securities.

§ 306.111   Procedure for applying for relief.

Prompt report of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement of a security should be made to the Bureau. The report should include:
(a) The name and present address of the owner and his address at the time the security was issued, and, if the report is made by some other person, the capacity in which he represents the owner.
(b) The identity of the security by title of loan, issue date, interest rate, serial number and denomination, and in the case of a registered security, the exact form of inscription and a full description of any assignment, endorsement or other writing.
(c) A full statement of the circumstances.
All available portions of a mutilated, defaced or partially destroyed security must also be submitted.

§ 306.112   Type of relief granted.

(a) Prior to call or maturity. After a claim on account of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of a security which has not matured or been called has been satisfactorily established and the conditions for granting relief have been met, a security of like description will be issued to replace the original security.
Prior to call or maturity.
After a claim on account of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of a security which has not matured or been called has been satisfactorily established and the conditions for granting relief have been met, a security of like description will be issued to replace the original security.
(b) At or after call or maturity. Payment will be made on account of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of a called or matured security after the claim has been satisfactorily established and the conditions for granting relief have been met.
At or after call or maturity.
Payment will be made on account of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of a called or matured security after the claim has been satisfactorily established and the conditions for granting relief have been met.
(c) Interest coupons. Where relief has been authorized on account of a destroyed, mutilated or defaced coupon security which has not matured or been called, the replacement security will have attached all unmatured interest coupons if it is established to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury that the coupons were attached to the original security at the time of its destruction, mutilation or defacement. In every other case only those unmatured interest coupons for which the Department has received payment will be attached. The price of the coupons will be their value as determined by the Department at the time relief is authorized using interest rate factors based on then current market yields on Treasury securities of comparable maturities.
Interest coupons.
Where relief has been authorized on account of a destroyed, mutilated or defaced coupon security which has not matured or been called, the replacement security will have attached all unmatured interest coupons if it is established to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury that the coupons were attached to the original security at the time of its destruction, mutilation or defacement. In every other case only those unmatured interest coupons for which the Department has received payment will be attached. The price of the coupons will be their value as determined by the Department at the time relief is authorized using interest rate factors based on then current market yields on Treasury securities of comparable maturities.

§ 306.113   Cases not requiring bonds of indemnity.

A bond of indemnity will not be required as a condition of relief for the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of registered securities in any of the following classes of cases unless the Secretary of the Treasury deems it essential in the public interest:
(a) If the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement, as the case may be, occurred while the security was in the custody or control of the United States, or a duly authorized agent thereof (not including the Postal Service when acting solely in its capacity as public carrier of the mails), or while in the course of shipment effected under regulations issued pursuant to the Government Losses in Shipment Act (parts 260, 261, and 262 of this chapter).
(b) If substantially the entire security is presented and surrendered and the Security of the Treasury is satisfied as to the identity of the security and that any missing portions are not sufficient to form the basis of a valid claim against the United States.
(c) If the security is one which by the provisions of law or by the terms of its issue is nontransferable or is transferable only by operation of law.
(d) If the owner or holder is the United States, a Federal Reserve bank, a Federal Government corporation, a State, the District of Columbia, a territory or possession of the United States, a municipal corporation, or, if applicable, a political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or a foreign government.

Subpart O—Book-Entry Procedure


§ 306.115   Definition of terms.

For the purposes of this subpart, the definitions provided in 31 CFR 357.3 are applicable, with the following additions:
Definitive Treasury security means a Treasury bond, note, certificate of indebtedness, or bill issued under 31 U.S.C. chapter 31 in engraved or printed form.
Definitive Treasury security
means a Treasury bond, note, certificate of indebtedness, or bill issued under 31 U.S.C. chapter 31 in engraved or printed form.
Eligible book-entry Treasury security means a security maintained in TRADES that was originally issued prior to August 15, 1986, which by the terms of its offering circular is available in either definitive or book-entry form.
Eligible book-entry Treasury security
means a security maintained in TRADES that was originally issued prior to August 15, 1986, which by the terms of its offering circular is available in either definitive or book-entry form.
[[61 FR 43637, Aug. 23, 1996]]

§ 306.116   Scope and effect of book-entry procedure.

(a) Except as provided in § 306.117, the provisions of 31 CFR part 357, subparts A, B, and D apply.
(b) This subpart is effective January 1, 1997.
[[61 FR 43637, Aug. 23, 1996]]

§ 306.117   Withdrawal of eligible book-entry Treasury securities for conversion to registered form.

(a) Eligible book-entry Treasury securities may be withdrawn from TRADES by requesting delivery of like definitive Treasury securities.
(b) Fiscal Service shall, upon receipt of appropriate instructions to withdraw eligible book-entry Treasury securities from book-entry form in TRADES, convert such securities into registered Treasury securities and deliver them in accordance with such instructions; no such conversion shall affect existing interests in such Treasury securities.
(c) All requests for withdrawal of eligible book-entry Treasury securities must be made prior to the maturity or date of call of the securities.
(d) Treasury securities which are to be delivered upon withdrawal may be issued in registered form, to the extent permitted by the applicable offering circular.
[[61 FR 43637, Aug. 23, 1996; 64 FR 38126, July 15, 1999]]

Subpart P—Miscellaneous Provisions


§ 306.125   Additional requirements.

In any case or any class of cases arising under these regulations the Secretary of the Treasury may require such additional evidence and a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, as may in his judgment be necessary for the protection of the interests of the United States.

§ 306.126   Waiver of regulations.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, in his discretion, to waive or modify any provision or provisions of these regulations in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not impair any existing rights, and he is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 306.127   Preservation of existing rights.

Nothing contained in these regulations shall limit or restrict existing rights which holders of securities heretofore issued may have acquired under the circulars offering such securities for sale or under the regulations in force at the time of acquisition.

§ 306.128   Supplements, amendments or revisions.

The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, prescribe additional supplemental, amendatory or revised regulations with respect to U.S. securities. The Secretary also may lower the minimum and multiple requirements for stripping marketable Treasury notes and bonds issued prior to March 1, 1993, through an announcement as provided in § 356.31 of this title.
[[65 FR 66175, Nov. 3, 2000]]

PART 308—GENERAL REGULATIONS GOVERNING FULL-PAID INTERIM CERTIFICATES

[Authority:80 Stat. 379; sec. 8. 50 Stat. 481, as amended; secs. 1, 18, 5, 40 Stat. 288, as amended, 1309, as amended, 290, as amended; sec. 32, 30 Stat. 466, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 738a, 752, 753, 754, 756.]
Authority:
80 Stat. 379; sec. 8. 50 Stat. 481, as amended; secs. 1, 18, 5, 40 Stat. 288, as amended, 1309, as amended, 290, as amended; sec. 32, 30 Stat. 466, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 738a, 752, 753, 754, 756.
[Source:6 FR 5289, Oct. 17, 1941, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
6 FR 5289, Oct. 17, 1941, unless otherwise noted.

§ 308.1   Issue.

Federal Reserve Banks, as Fiscal Agents of the United States, and the Treasury Department may issue full-paid interim certificates in lieu of definitive securities, against full-paid allotments of subscriptions, when specifically authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the issue, hereafter, to the public, of United States securities. Interim certificates shall be in such form, and in such denominations, as the Secretary of the Treasury may determine when an issue is authorized.

§ 308.2   Exchange for definitive securities.

Upon surrender of a full-paid interim certificate to a Federal Reserve Bank, or to the Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20226, the definitive securities described therein, when prepared, will be delivered. Exchanges shall be made on like par amount basis.

§ 308.3   Exchanges of denominations.

Pending availability of definitive securities, exchanges of authorized denominations of interim certificates, from higher to lower will be permitted.

§ 308.4   Applicable regulations.

Except as may otherwise be provided, and in so far as applicable, the general regulations of the Treasury Department, as contained in part 306 of this subchapter, as amended or revised, shall apply to full-paid interim certificates.

§ 308.5   Reservations.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to withdraw or amend at any time or from time to time any or all of the provisions of this part.

PART 309—ISSUE AND SALE OF TREASURY BILLS

[Authority:80 Stat. 379; sec. 8, 50 Stat. 481, as amended; sec. 5, 40 Stat. 290, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 738a, 754.]
Authority:
80 Stat. 379; sec. 8, 50 Stat. 481, as amended; sec. 5, 40 Stat. 290, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 738a, 754.
[Source:41 FR 44006, Oct. 5, 1976, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
41 FR 44006, Oct. 5, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

§ 309.1   Authority for issue and sale.

The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized by the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, to issue Treasury bills of the United States on an interest-bearing basis, on a discount basis, or on a combination interest-bearing and discount basis, at such price or prices and with interest computed in such manner and payable at such time or times as he may prescribe; and to fix the form, terms, and conditions thereof, and to offer them for sale on a competitive or other basis, under such regulations and upon such terms and conditions as he may prescribe. Pursuant to said authorization, the Secretary of the Treasury may, from time to time, by public notice, offer Treasury bills for sale, and invite tenders therefor, through the Federal Reserve Banks and branches and through the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The Treasury bills so offered, and the tenders made, will be subject to the terms and conditions and to the general rules and regulations herein set forth, except as they may be modified in the public notices issued by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with particular offerings. 
1
1
1 Accordingly, these regulations do not constitute a specific offering of Treasury bills.
1
Accordingly, these regulations do not constitute a specific offering of Treasury bills.

§ 309.2   Description of Treasury bills (General).

Treasury bills are bearer obligations of the United States promising to pay a specified amount on a specified date. They will be payable at maturity upon presentation to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226, or to any Federal Reserve Bank or branch. Treasury bills are issued only by Federal Reserve Banks and branches and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service pursuant to tenders accepted by the Secretary of the Treasury, and shall not be valid unless the issue date and the maturity date are entered thereon. Treasury bills bearing the same issue date and the same maturity date shall constitute a series.

§ 309.3   Denominations and exchange.

Treasury bills will be issued in denominations (maturity value) of $10,000, $15,000, $50,000, $100,000, $500,000, and $1,000,000. Exchanges from higher to lower and lower to higher denominations of the same series (bearing the same issue and maturity dates) will be permitted at Federal Reserve Banks and branches and at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226. Insofar as applicable, the general regulations of the Treasury Department governing transactions in bonds and notes will govern transactions in Treasury bills.

§ 309.4   Taxation.

The income derived from Treasury bills, whether interest or gain from the sale or other disposition of the bills, shall not have any exemption, as such, and loss from the sale or other disposition of Treasury bills shall not have any special treatment, as such, under the Internal Revenue Code, or laws amendatory or supplementary thereto. The bills shall be subject to estate, inheritance, gift or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but shall be exempt from all taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, or any of the possessions of the United States, or by any local taxing authority. For purposes of taxation the amount of discount at which Treasury bills are originally sold by the United States shall be considered to be interest.

§ 309.5   Acceptance of Treasury bills for various purposes.

(a) Acceptable as security for public deposits. Treasury bills will be acceptable at maturity value to secure deposits of public monies.
Acceptable as security for public deposits.
Treasury bills will be acceptable at maturity value to secure deposits of public monies.
(b) Acceptable in payment of taxes. The Secretary of the Treasury, in his discretion, when inviting tenders for Treasury bills, may provide that Treasury bills of any series will be acceptable at maturity value, whether at or before maturity, under such rules and regulations as he shall prescribe or approve, in payment of income taxes payable under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Treasury bills which by the terms of their issue are acceptable in payment of income taxes may be surrendered to any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, acting as fiscal agent of the United States, or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226, 15 days or less before the date on which the taxes become due.
Acceptable in payment of taxes.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in his discretion, when inviting tenders for Treasury bills, may provide that Treasury bills of any series will be acceptable at maturity value, whether at or before maturity, under such rules and regulations as he shall prescribe or approve, in payment of income taxes payable under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Treasury bills which by the terms of their issue are acceptable in payment of income taxes may be surrendered to any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, acting as fiscal agent of the United States, or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226, 15 days or less before the date on which the taxes become due.
(1) In the case of payments of corporation income taxes (including payments of estimates) for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1967, the bills shall be accompanied by a preinscribed Form 503, Federal Tax Deposit, Corporation Income Taxes, on which the face amount of the bills being surrendered should be entered in the space provided for the amount of the tax deposit. The office receiving the bills and Form 503 will acknowledge receipt of the bills to the owner corporation and effect the tax deposit on the date on which the taxes become due. Accordingly, in these cases, it will no longer be necessary to submit receipts for Treasury bills to the Internal Revenue Service with the corporation's declaration or tax return.
(2) In the case of payments of all other income taxes the office receiving the bills will issue receipts (in duplicate) to the owners. The original of the receipt shall be submitted, by the owner, in lieu of the bills, together with the tax return, to the District Director, Internal Revenue Service.
(c) Discounting by Federal Reserve Bank of notes secured by Treasury bills. Notes securied by Treasury bills are eligible for discount or rediscount at Federal Reserve Banks as provided under the provisions of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, as are notes securied by bonds and notes of the United States.
Discounting by Federal Reserve Bank of notes secured by Treasury bills.
Notes securied by Treasury bills are eligible for discount or rediscount at Federal Reserve Banks as provided under the provisions of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, as are notes securied by bonds and notes of the United States.
(d) Acceptable in connection with foreign obligations held by United States. Treasury bills will be acceptable at maturity, but not before, in payment of interest or of principal on account of obligations of foreign governments held by the United States.
Acceptable in connection with foreign obligations held by United States.
Treasury bills will be acceptable at maturity, but not before, in payment of interest or of principal on account of obligations of foreign governments held by the United States.

§ 309.6   Public notice of offering.

When Treasury bills are to be offered, tenders therefor will be invited through public notice given by the Secretary of the Treasury. Such public notices may be issued by the Secretary of the Treasury in the name of “the Treasury Department” with the same force and effect as if issued in the name of the Secretary of the Treasury. In such notice there will be set forth the amount of Treasury bills for which tenders are then invited, the date of issue, the date or dates when such bills will become due and payable, the date and closing hour for the receipt of tenders at the Federal Reserve Banks and branches and at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226, and the date on which payment for accepted tenders must be made or completed.

§ 309.7   Tenders; submission through Federal Reserve Banks and branches and to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.

Tenders in response to any such public notice will be received at the Federal Reserve Banks, or Branches thereof and at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226, and unless received before the time fixed for closing will be disregarded. Each tender must be for a minimum amount of $10,000. Tenders over $10,000 must be in multiples of $5,000 (maturity value). In the case of competitive tenders the price or prices offered by the bidder for the amount or amounts (at maturity value) applied for must be stated, and must be expressed on the basis of 100, with not more than three decimals, e.g., 99.925. Fractions may not be used.

§ 309.8   Tenders; when cash deposit is required.

Tenders should be submitted on the printed forms and forwarded in the special envelopes which will be supplied on application to any Federal Reserve Bank, or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226. If a special envelope is not available, the inscription “Tender for Treasury Bills” should be placed on the envelope used. The instructions set forth in the public notice announcing the offering should be observed with respect to the submission of tenders. Banking institutions generally may submit tenders for account of customers provided the names of the customers are set forth in such tenders. Others than banking institutions, will not be permitted to submit tenders except for their own account. Tenders from incorporated banks and trust companies, and from responsible and recognized dealers in investment securities will be received without deposit. Tenders from all others must be accompanied by a payment of such percent of the face amount of the Treasury bills applied for as the Secretary of the Treasury may from time to time prescribe: Provided, however, That such deposit will not be required if the tender is accompanied by an express guaranty of payment in full by an incorporated bank or trust company. Forfeiture of the prescribed payment may be declared by the Secretary of the Treasury, if payment is not completed, in the case of accepted tenders, on the prescribed date.
Provided, however,
That such deposit will not be required if the tender is accompanied by an express guaranty of payment in full by an incorporated bank or trust company. Forfeiture of the prescribed payment may be declared by the Secretary of the Treasury, if payment is not completed, in the case of accepted tenders, on the prescribed date.

§ 309.9   Tenders; acceptance by the Secretary of the Treasury.

At the time fixed for closing, as specified in the public notice, all tenders received by the Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will be opened. The Secretary of the Treasury will determine the acceptable prices offered and will make public announcement thereof those submitting tenders will be advised of the acceptance or rejection thereof, and payment on accepted tenders must be made or completed on the date specified in the public notice.

§ 309.10   Tenders; reservation of right to reject.

In considering the acceptance of tenders, the highest prices offered will be accepted in full down to the amount required, and if the same price appears in two or more tenders and it is necessary to accept only a part of the amount offered at such price, the amount accepted at such price will be prorated in accordance with the respective amounts applied for. However, the Secretary of the Treasury expressly reserves the right on any occasion to accept non-competitive tenders entered in accordance with specific offerings, to reject any or all tenders or parts of tenders, and to award less than the amount applied for; and any action he may take in any such respect or respects shall be final.

§ 309.11   Tenders; payment of accepted tenders.

Settlement for accepted tenders in accordance with the bids must be made or completed at the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank or branch or at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service in cash or other immediately available funds on or before the date specified, except that the Secretary of the Treasury, in his discretion, when inviting tenders for Treasury bills, may provide:
(a) That any qualified depositary may make such settlement by credit, on behalf of itself and its customers, up to any amount for which it shall be qualified in excess of existing deposits, when so notified by the Federal Reserve Bank of its District or
(b) That such settlement may be made in maturing Treasury bills accepted in exchange.
Whenever the Secretary provides for settlement in maturing Treasury bills, cash adjustments will be made for differences between the par value of the maturing bills and the issue price of the new bills.

§ 309.12   Relief on account of loss, theft or destruction, etc.

(a) Relief on account of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement of Treasury bills may be given only under the authority of, and subject to the conditions set forth in section 8 of the act of July 8, 1937 (50 Stat. 481), as amended (31 U.S.C. 738a) and the regulations pursuant thereto in (Treasury Department Circular No. 300 insofar as applicable.
(b) In case of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement of Treasury bills, immediate advice, with a full description of the bill or bills involved, should be sent to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Securities Operations, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20226, either direct or though any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, and, if relief under the statutes may be given, instructions and necessary blank forms will be furnished.

§ 309.13   Functions of Federal Reserve Banks.

Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform all such acts as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this circular and of any public notice or notices issued in connection with any offering of Treasury bills.

§ 309.14   Reservation as to terms of circular.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right further to amend, supplement, revise or withdraw all or any of the provisions of this circular at any time, or from time to time.

PART 312—FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND FEDERAL CREDIT UNIONS AS FISCAL AGENTS OF THE UNITED STATES

Note:
Pursuant to the regulations in this part, the Acting Secretary of the Treasury on September 15, 1936, designated for employment as fiscal agents of the United States for the purpose of taking applications solely from their own members and forwarding remittances for, and making delivery of, United States Savings Bonds, all Federal savings and loan associations and Federal credit unions in good standing having five hundred or more members, and further designated all Federal savings and loan associations in good standing for employment as fiscal agents of the United States, for the purpose of collecting delinquent accounts arising out of insurance and loan transactions of the Administrator under Title I of the National Housing Act, and making investigations and rendering reports respecting the said delinquencies as may be directed from time to time by the Administrator.
Pursuant to these same regulations, the Fiscal Assistant Secretary has now designated for employment, as fiscal agents of the United States, for the purpose of taking applications from nonmembers, as well as their own members, and forwarding remittances for, and making delivery of United States Savings Bonds, all Federal credit unions in good standing.
[Authority:Secs. 5(k), 17, 48 Stat. 646, 1222; 12 U.S.C. 1464(k), 1767.]
Authority:
Secs. 5(k), 17, 48 Stat. 646, 1222; 12 U.S.C. 1464(k), 1767.
[Source:1 FR 1587, Sept. 17, 1936; 57 FR 34684, Aug. 6, 1992, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
1 FR 1587, Sept. 17, 1936; 57 FR 34684, Aug. 6, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
Cross References:
For National Credit Union Administration, see 12 CFR chapter VII. For Farm Credit Administration, see 12 CFR chapter VI. For Federal Home Loan Bank Board, see 12 CFR chapter V. For Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development, see 24 CFR chapter II.

§ 312.1   Authority.

(a) Home Owners' Loan Act. Section 5(k) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended (48 Stat. 645; 12 U.S.C. 1464(k), is as follows:
Home Owners' Loan Act.
Section 5(k) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended (48 Stat. 645; 12 U.S.C. 1464(k), is as follows:
(k) When designated for that purpose by the Secretary of the Treasury, any Federal savings and loan association * * * may be employed as fiscal agent of the Government under such regulations as may be prescribed by said Secretary and shall perform all such reasonable duties as fiscal agent of the Government as may be required of it * * *.
(b) Federal Credit Union Act. Section 17 of the Federal Credit Union Act (48 Stat. 1222; 12 U.S.C. 1767) is as follows:
Federal Credit Union Act.
Section 17 of the Federal Credit Union Act (48 Stat. 1222; 12 U.S.C. 1767) is as follows:
Each Federal credit union organized under this Act, when requested by the Secretary of the Treasury, shall act as fiscal agent of the United States and shall perform such services as the Secretary of the Treasury may require in connection with * * * the lending, borrowing, and repayment of money by the United States, including the issue, sale, redemption or repurchase of bonds, notes, Treasury certificates of indebtedness, or other obligations of the United States * * *.

§ 312.2   [Reserved]


§ 312.3   Collections, investigations, and reports for the Federal Housing Administration.

Federal savings and loan associations, when designated for employment as fiscal agents of the United States for the purpose of collecting delinquent accounts arising out of insurance and loan transactions of the Administrator under Title I of the National Housing Act (48 Stat. 1246, 1247; 12 U.S.C. 1702-1706), and making investigations and rendering reports respecting the said delinquencies as may be directed from time to time by the Administrator, shall promptly forward remittances in the form collected to the Commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration, except, that remittances received in cash should be forwarded in the form of money order or check.

§ 312.4   Bond of indemnity.

No Federal savings and loan association or Federal credit union which may have been designated for employment mentioned in this part shall perform, or make any effort to perform any of the acts included in such employment, or advertise in any manner that it is authorized to perform such acts until it has qualified by the execution of, delivery to, and approval of a bond of indemnity in favor of the United States with satisfactory surety, or with the pledge of collateral security as provided in part 225 of this chapter, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the obligor's duties as fiscal agent of the United States in the principal amount of $1,000 and until the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or the Bureau of Federal Credit Unions, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, respectively, shall have certified to the Secretary of the Treasury that such association or credit union is in good standing and is eligible, under the terms and conditions prescribed by the Secretary, to qualify for the performance of the designated acts. The Federal Home Loan Bank Board and the Bureau of Credit Unions, respectively, shall keep the Secretary of the Treasury currently advised of the changes in the lists of associations and credit unions which are eligible, under the aforesaid terms and conditions, to qualify for the performance of the designated acts.
[[32 FR 3447, Mar. 2, 1967]]

§ 312.5   Fiscal agents to serve without compensation.

All of the fiscal agency employment mentioned in this part shall be performed without compensation, reimbursement for expenses, or allowance of service charges.

§ 312.6   Applications other than to Federal Reserve Banks.

Nothing contained in this part shall be construed as preventing such associations and credit unions, if they desire to assume such responsibility, from acting as agents of prospective purchasers in making applications to, and obtaining United States Savings Bonds from post offices or other designated places of issuance.

PART 315—REGULATIONS GOVERNING U.S. SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, AND K, AND U.S. SAVINGS NOTES

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3105 and 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3105 and 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 315.0   Applicability.

The regulations in this circular, Department of the Treasury Circular No. 530, and the provisions of the respective offering circulars, govern—
(a) Definitive (paper) United States Savings Bonds of Series E that have not been converted to book-entry savings bonds in New Treasury Direct, and Series H and United States Savings Notes, and
(b) United States Savings Bonds of Series A, B, C, D, F, G, J, and K, all of which have matured and are no longer earning interest.
The regulations in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80 (31 CFR, part 353), govern United States Savings Bonds of Series EE and Series HH.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005]]

§ 315.1   Official agencies.

(a) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service of the Department of the Treasury is responsible for administering the Savings Bonds Program. Authority to process most transactions has been delegated to Federal Reserve Banks and Branches in the list below, as fiscal agents of the United States.
(b) Communications concerning transactions and requests for forms should be addressed to:
(1) A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch in the list below; the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26101; or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226.
(2)(i) The following Federal Reserve Offices have been designated to provide savings bond services:
Servicing office
Reserve districts served
Geographic area served
Federal Reserve Bank, Buffalo Branch, P.O. Box 961, Buffalo, NY 14240
New York, Boston
CT, MA, ME, NH, NJ (northern half), NY (City & State), RI, Vt, Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands.
Federal Reserve Bank, Pittsburgh Branch, P.O. Box 867, Pittsburgh, PA 15230
Cleveland, Philadelphia
DE, KY (eastern half), NJ (southern half), OH, PA, WV (northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, P.O. Box 27622, Richmond, VA 23261
Richmond, Atlanta
AL, DC, FL, LA (southern half), MD, MS (southern half), NC, SC, TN (eastern half), VA, WV (except northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 250 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55480
Minneapolis, Chicago
IA, IL (northern half), IN (northern half), MN, MT, ND, SD, WI.
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 925 Grand Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64198
Dallas, San Francisco, Kansas City, St. Louis
AK, AR, AZ, CA, CO, HI, ID, IL (southern half), IN (southern half), KS, KY (western half), LA (northern half), MO, MS (northern half), NE, NM, NV, OK, OR, TN (western half), TX, WA, WY, UT and GU.
(ii) Until March 1, 1996, other Federal Reserve Offices may continue to provide some savings bond services, but such services will be phased out over the period prior to that date.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 10534, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 315.2   Definitions.

As used in these regulations—
(a) Bond means a United States Savings Bond of any series except EE and HH, unless the context indicates otherwise. General references to bonds and direct references to Series E bonds also include United States Savings Notes, unless specifically excluded.
Bond
means a United States Savings Bond of any series except EE and HH, unless the context indicates otherwise. General references to bonds and direct references to Series E bonds also include United States Savings Notes, unless specifically excluded.
(b) Converted bond means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Converted bond
means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
(c) Extended maturity period means any period after the original maturity date during which the owner may retain a bond and continue to earn interest on the maturity value or extended maturity value under applicable provisions of the circular offering the bond for sale.
Extended maturity period
means any period after the original maturity date during which the owner may retain a bond and continue to earn interest on the maturity value or extended maturity value under applicable provisions of the circular offering the bond for sale.
(d) Extended maturity value is the value of a bond at the end of the applicable extended maturity period.
Extended maturity value
is the value of a bond at the end of the applicable extended maturity period.
(e) Final extended maturity date is the date on which a bond will mature and cease to bear interest at the end of the final extended maturity period.
Final extended maturity date
is the date on which a bond will mature and cease to bear interest at the end of the final extended maturity period.
(f) Incompetent means an individual who is incapable of handling his or her business affairs because of a legal, mental or medically-established physical disability, except that a minor is not an incompetent solely because of age.
Incompetent
means an individual who is incapable of handling his or her business affairs because of a legal, mental or medically-established physical disability, except that a minor is not an incompetent solely because of age.
(g) Inscription means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
Inscription
means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
(h) Issuing agent means an organization that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 4-67, current revision (31 CFR part 317), to issue savings bonds.
Issuing agent
means an organization that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 4-67, current revision (31 CFR part 317), to issue savings bonds.
(i) Original maturity date means the date on which the bond reaches the end of the term for which it was initially offered and, unless further extended, ceases to earn interest.
Original maturity date
means the date on which the bond reaches the end of the term for which it was initially offered and, unless further extended, ceases to earn interest.
(j) Paying agent means a financial institution that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), to make payment of savings bonds.
Paying agent
means a financial institution that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), to make payment of savings bonds.
(k) Payment means redemption, unless otherwise indicated by context.
Payment
means redemption, unless otherwise indicated by context.
(l) Person means any legal entity including, but without limitation, and individual, corporation (public or private), partnership, unincorporated association, or fiduciary estate.
Person
means any legal entity including, but without limitation, and individual, corporation (public or private), partnership, unincorporated association, or fiduciary estate.
(m) Personal trust estates means trust estates established by natural persons in their own right for the benefit of themselves or other natural persons in whole or in part, and common trust funds comprised in whole or in part of such trust estates.
Personal trust estates
means trust estates established by natural persons in their own right for the benefit of themselves or other natural persons in whole or in part, and common trust funds comprised in whole or in part of such trust estates.
(n) Registration means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
Registration
means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
(o) Reissue means the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a new bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount.
Reissue
means the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a new bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount.
(p) Representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al. means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the individual. The term does not include parents in their own right, voluntary or natural guardians, or the executors or administrators of decedents' estates.
Representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al.
means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the individual. The term does not include parents in their own right, voluntary or natural guardians, or the executors or administrators of decedents' estates.
(q) Surrender means the actual receipt of a bond with an appropriate request for payment or reissue by either a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or, if a paying agent is authorized to handle the transaction, the actual receipt of the bond and the request for payment by the paying agent.
Surrender
means the actual receipt of a bond with an appropriate request for payment or reissue by either a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or, if a paying agent is authorized to handle the transaction, the actual receipt of the bond and the request for payment by the paying agent.
(r) Taxpayer identifying number means a social security account number or an employer identification number.
Taxpayer identifying number
means a social security account number or an employer identification number.
(s) Voluntary guardian means an individual who is recognized as authorized to act for an incompetent, as provided by § 315.64.
Voluntary guardian
means an individual who is recognized as authorized to act for an incompetent, as provided by § 315.64.
(t) Voluntary representative means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or distribution of a decedent's savings bonds pursuant to § 315.71.
Voluntary representative
means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or distribution of a decedent's savings bonds pursuant to § 315.71.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005; 70 FR 57430, Sept. 30, 2005; 71 FR 46856, Aug. 15, 2006]]

§ 315.3   Converting definitive savings bonds to book-entry bonds in New Treasury Direct.

Series E savings bonds that were originally issued as definitive bonds may be converted to book-entry bonds through New Treasury Direct, an online system for holding Treasury securities. The Web address for New Treasury Direct is www.treasurydirect.gov. Bond owners who wish to convert their definitive savings bonds should follow online instructions for conversion. Regulations governing converted bonds are found at 31 CFR part 363.
www.treasurydirect.gov.
Bond owners who wish to convert their definitive savings bonds should follow online instructions for conversion. Regulations governing converted bonds are found at 31 CFR part 363.
[[70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005]]

Subpart B—Registration


§ 315.5   General rules.

(a) Registration is conclusive of ownership. Savings bonds are issued only in registered form. The registration must express the actual ownership of, and interest in, the bond. The registration is conclusive of ownership, except as provided in § 315.49.
Registration is conclusive of ownership.
Savings bonds are issued only in registered form. The registration must express the actual ownership of, and interest in, the bond. The registration is conclusive of ownership, except as provided in § 315.49.
(b) Requests for registration. Registrations requested must be clear, accurate and complete, conform substantially with one of the forms set forth in this subpart, and include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named coowner. The taxpayer identifying number of the second-named coowner or beneficiary is not required but its inclusion is desirable. The registration of all bonds owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and any description of the fiduciary capacity. An individual should be designated by the name he or she is ordinarily known by or uses in business, including at least one full given name. The name may be preceded or followed by any applicable title, such as Miss, Mr., Mrs., Ms., Dr., Rev., M.D., or D.D.. A suffix, such as Sr. or Jr., must be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from another member of his family. A married woman's own given name, not that of her husband, must be used; for example, Mary A. Jones or Mrs. Mary A. Jones, NOT Mrs. Frank B. Jones. The address must include, where appropriate, the number and street, route, or any other local feature, city, State, and ZIP Code.
Requests for registration.
Registrations requested must be clear, accurate and complete, conform substantially with one of the forms set forth in this subpart, and include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named coowner. The taxpayer identifying number of the second-named coowner or beneficiary is not required but its inclusion is desirable. The registration of all bonds owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and any description of the fiduciary capacity. An individual should be designated by the name he or she is ordinarily known by or uses in business, including at least one full given name. The name may be preceded or followed by any applicable title, such as
Miss, Mr., Mrs., Ms., Dr., Rev., M.D.,
or
D.D..
A suffix, such as
Sr.
or
Jr.,
must be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from another member of his family. A married woman's own given name, not that of her husband, must be used; for example,
Mary A. Jones
or
Mrs. Mary A. Jones,
NOT
Mrs. Frank B. Jones.
The address must include, where appropriate, the number and street, route, or any other local feature, city, State, and ZIP Code.

§ 315.6   Restrictions on registration.

(a) Natural persons. Only an individual in his or her own right may be designated as coowner or beneficiary along with any other individual, whether on original issue or reissue, except as provided in § 315.7(g).
Natural persons.
Only an individual in his or her own right may be designated as coowner or beneficiary along with any other individual, whether on original issue or reissue, except as provided in § 315.7(g).
(b) Residence. The designation of an owner or first-named coowner is restricted, on original issue only, to persons (whether individuals or others) who are—
Residence.
The designation of an owner or first-named coowner is restricted, on original issue only, to persons (whether individuals or others) who are—
(1) Residents of the United States, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the former Canal Zone;
(2) Citizens of the United States residing abroad;
(3) Civilian employees of the United States or members of its armed forces, regardless of their residence or citizenship; and
(4) Residents of Canada or Mexico who work in the United States but only if the bonds are purchased on a payroll deduction plan and the owner provides a taxpayer identifying number.
A nonresident alien may be designated coowner or beneficiary or, on authorized reissue, owner, unless the nonresident alien is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Registration is not permitted in any form which includes the name of any alien who is a resident of any restricted area.
(c) Minors. (1) Minors may purchase with their wages, earnings, or other funds belonging to them and under their control bonds registered in their names alone or with a coowner or beneficiary.
Minors.
(1) Minors may purchase with their wages, earnings, or other funds belonging to them and under their control bonds registered in their names alone or with a coowner or beneficiary.
(2) Bonds purchased by another person with funds belonging to a minor not under legal guardianship or similar fiduciary estate must be registered, without a coowner or beneficiary, in the name of the minor or a natural guardian on behalf of a minor.
(3) Bonds purchased with funds of another may be registered to name the minor as owner, coowner, or beneficiary. If the minor is under legal guardianship or similar fiduciary estate, the registration must include an appropriate reference to it.
(4) Bonds purchased as a gift to a minor under a gifts-to-minors statute must be registered as prescribed by the statute and no coowner or beneficiary may be named.
(5) Bonds purchased by a representative of a minor's estate must be registered in the name of the minor and must include in the registration an appropriate reference to the guardianship or similar fiduciary estate. Bonds purchased by a representative of the estates of two or more minors, even though appointed in a single proceeding, must be registered in the name of each minor separately with appropriate reference to the guardianship or similar fiduciary estate.
(d) Incompetents. Bonds may be registered to a name as owner, coowner, or beneficiary an incompetent for whose estate a guardian or similar representative has been appointed, except that a coowner or beneficiary may not be named on bonds purchased with funds belonging to the incompetent. The registration must include appropriate reference to the guardianship or similar fiduciary estate. Bonds should not be registered in the name of an incompetent unless there is a representative for his or her estate, except as provided in § 315.64.
Incompetents.
Bonds may be registered to a name as owner, coowner, or beneficiary an incompetent for whose estate a guardian or similar representative has been appointed, except that a coowner or beneficiary may not be named on bonds purchased with funds belonging to the incompetent. The registration must include appropriate reference to the guardianship or similar fiduciary estate. Bonds should not be registered in the name of an incompetent unless there is a representative for his or her estate, except as provided in § 315.64.

§ 315.7   Authorized forms of registration.

(a) General. Subject to any limitations or restrictions contained in these regulations on the right of any person to be named as owner, coowner, or beneficiary, bonds should be registered as indicated below. A savings bond registered in a form not substantially in agreement with one of the forms authorized by this subpart is not considered validly issued.
General.
Subject to any limitations or restrictions contained in these regulations on the right of any person to be named as owner, coowner, or beneficiary, bonds should be registered as indicated below. A savings bond registered in a form not substantially in agreement with one of the forms authorized by this subpart is not considered validly issued.
(b) Natural persons. A bond may be registered in the names of individuals in their own right, but only in one of the forms authorized by this paragraph.
Natural persons.
A bond may be registered in the names of individuals in their own right, but only in one of the forms authorized by this paragraph.
(1) Single ownership form. A bond may be registered in the name of one individual. Example:
Single ownership form.
A bond may be registered in the name of one individual. Example:
John A. Jones 123-45-6789.
(2) Coownership form. A bond may be registered in the names of two individuals in the alternative as coowners. The form of registration “A and B” is not authorized. Examples:
Coownership form.
A bond may be registered in the names of two individuals in the alternative as coowners. The form of registration “A and B” is not authorized. Examples:
John A. Jones 123-45-6789 or Ella S. Jones 987-65-4321.
John A. Jones 123-45-6789 or (Miss, Ms. or Mrs.) Ella S. Jones.
Ella S. Jones 987-65-4321 or John A. Jones.
(3) Beneficiary form. A bond may be registered in the name of one individual payable on death to another. “Payable on death to” may be abbreviated to “P.O.D.” Examples:
Beneficiary form.
A bond may be registered in the name of one individual payable on death to another. “Payable on death to” may be abbreviated to “P.O.D.” Examples:
John A. Jones 123-45-6789 payable on death to Mrs. Ella S. Jones.
John A. Jones 123-45-6789 P.O.D. Ella S. Jones 987-65-4321.
(c) Fiduciaries (including legal guardians and similar representatives, certain custodians, natural guardians, executors, administrators, and trustees)—(1) General. A bond may be registered in the name of any person or persons or any organization acting as fiduciary of a single fiduciary estate, but not where the fiduciary will hold the bond merely or principally as security for the performance of a duty, obligation, or service. Registration should conform to a form authorized by this paragraph. A coowner or beneficiary may be named only in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 315.6(c) and (d). A common trust fund established and maintained by a financial institution authorized to act as a fiduciary will be considered a single fiduciary estate within the meaning of these regulations.
Fiduciaries (including legal guardians and similar representatives, certain custodians, natural guardians, executors, administrators, and trustees)
—(1)
General.
A bond may be registered in the name of any person or persons or any organization acting as fiduciary of a single fiduciary estate, but not where the fiduciary will hold the bond merely or principally as security for the performance of a duty, obligation, or service. Registration should conform to a form authorized by this paragraph. A coowner or beneficiary may be named only in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 315.6(c) and (d). A common trust fund established and maintained by a financial institution authorized to act as a fiduciary will be considered a single fiduciary estate within the meaning of these regulations.
(2) Legal guardians, conservators, similar representives, certain custodians. A bond may be registered in the name and title or capacity of the legally appointed or authorized representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged or infirm person, absentee, et al., or in the name of that individual followed by an appropriate reference to the estate. Examples:
Legal guardians, conservators, similar representives, certain custodians.
A bond may be registered in the name and title or capacity of the legally appointed or authorized representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged or infirm person, absentee, et al., or in the name of that individual followed by an appropriate reference to the estate. Examples:
Tenth National Bank, guardian (or conservator, trustee, etc.) of the estate of George N. Brown 123-45-6789, a minor (or an incompetent, aged person, infirm person, or absentee).
Henry C. Smith, conservator of the estate of John R. White 123-45-6789, an adult, pursuant to Sec. 633.572 of the Iowa Code.
John F. Green 123-45-6789, a minor (or an incompetent) under custodianship by designation of the Veterans Administration.
Frank M. Redd 123-45-6789, an incompetent for whom Eric A. Redd has been designated trustee by the Department of the Army pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 602.
Arnold A. Ames, as custodian for Barry B. Bryan 123-45-6789, under the California Uniform Gifts to Minors Act.
Thomas J. Reed, as custodian for Lawrence W. Reed 123-45-6789, a minor, under the laws of Georgia.
Richard A. Rowe 123-45-6789, for whom Reba L. Rowe is representative payee for social security benefits (or black lung benefits, as the case may be). (If the beneficiary is a minor, the words “a minor” should appear immediately after the social security number.)
Henry L. Green 123-45-6789 or George M. Brown, a minor under legal guardianship of the Tenth National Bank.
Henry L. Green 123-45-6789 P.O.D. George M. Brown, a minor under legal guardianship of the Tenth National Bank.
Redd State Hospital and School, selected payee for John A. Jones 123-45-6789, a Civil Service annuitant, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8345(e).
(3) Natural guardians. A bond may be registered in the name of either parent of a minor, as natural guardian. The registration of a bond in this form is considered as establishing a fiduciary relationship. A coowner or beneficiary may be named but only if the funds used to purchase the bond do not belong to the minor. Examples:
Natural guardians.
A bond may be registered in the name of either parent of a minor, as natural guardian. The registration of a bond in this form is considered as establishing a fiduciary relationship. A coowner or beneficiary may be named but only if the funds used to purchase the bond do not belong to the minor. Examples:
John A. Jones, as natural guardian for Henry M. Jones 123-45-6789.
Melba Smith, as natural guardian for Thelma Smith 123-45-6789 P.O.D. Bartholomew Smith.
(4) Executors and administrators. A bond may be registered in the name of the representative appointed by a court to act for an estate of a decedent, or in the name of an executor authorized to administer a trust under the terms of a will although not named trustee. The name and capacity of all the representatives as shown in the letters of appointment must be included in the registration and be followed by an adequate identifying reference to the estate. Examples:
Executors and administrators.
A bond may be registered in the name of the representative appointed by a court to act for an estate of a decedent, or in the name of an executor authorized to administer a trust under the terms of a will although not named trustee. The name and capacity of all the representatives as shown in the letters of appointment must be included in the registration and be followed by an adequate identifying reference to the estate. Examples:
John H. Smith and Calvin N. Jones, executors of the will (or administrators of the estate) of Robert J. Smith, deceased 12-3456789.
John H. Smith, executor of the will of Robert J. Smith, deceased, in trust for Mrs. Jane L. Smith, with remainder over 12-3456789.
(5) Trustee or life tenants under wills, deeds of trust, agreements, or similar instruments. A bond may be registered in the name and title of the trustee of a trust estate, or in the name of a life tenant, followed by an adequate identifying reference to the authority governing the trust or life tenancy. Examples:
Trustee or life tenants under wills, deeds of trust, agreements, or similar instruments.
A bond may be registered in the name and title of the trustee of a trust estate, or in the name of a life tenant, followed by an adequate identifying reference to the authority governing the trust or life tenancy. Examples:
Thomas J. White and Tenth National Bank, trustees under the will of Robert J. Smith, deceased 12-3456789.
Jane N. Black 123-45-6789, life tenant under the will of Robert J. Black, deceased.
Tenth National Bank, trustee under agreement with Paul E. White, dated 2/1/76, 12-3456789.
Carl A. Black and Henry B. Green, trustees under agreement with Paul E. White, dated 2/1/76, 12-3456789.
Paul E. White, trustee under declaration of trust dated 2/1/76, 12-3456789.
(i) If the trust instrument designates by title only an officer of a board or an organization as trustee, only the title of the officer should be used. Example:
Chairman, Board of Trustees, First Church of Christ, Scientist, of Chicago, Illinois, in trust under the will of Robert J. Smith, deceased 12-3456789.
(ii) The names of all trustees, in the form used in the trust instrument, must be included in the registration, except as follows:
(A) If there are several trustees designated as a board or they are required to act as a unit, their names may be omitted and the words “Board of Trustees” substituted for the word “trustee”. Example:
Board of Trustees of Immediate Relief Trust of Federal Aid Association, under trust indenture dated 2/1/76, 12-3456789.
(B) If the trustees do not constitute a board or are not required to act as a unit, and are too numerous to be designated in the registration by names and title, some or all the names may be omitted. Examples:
John A. Smith, Henry B. Jones, et al., trustees under the will of Edwin O. Mann, deceased 12-3456789.
Trustees under the will of Edwin O. Mann, deceased 12-3456789.
(6) Employee thrift, savings, vacation and similar plans. A bond may be registered in the name and title, or title alone, of the trustee of an eligible employee thrift, savings, vacation or similar plan, as defined in § 316.5, of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 653, current revision. If the instrument creating the trust provides that the trustees shall serve for a limited term, their names may be omitted. Examples:
Employee thrift, savings, vacation and similar plans.
A bond may be registered in the name and title, or title alone, of the trustee of an eligible employee thrift, savings, vacation or similar plan, as defined in § 316.5, of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 653, current revision. If the instrument creating the trust provides that the trustees shall serve for a limited term, their names may be omitted. Examples:
Tenth National Bank, trustee of Pension Fund of Safety Manufacturing Company, U/A with the company, dated March 31, 1976, 12-3456789.
Trustees of Retirement Fund of Safety Manufacturing Company, under directors' resolution adopted March 31, 1976, 12-3456789.
County Trust Company, Trustee of the Employee Savings Plan of Jones Company, Inc., U/A dated January 17, 1976, 12-3456789.
Trustee of the Employee Savings Plan of Brown Brothers, Inc., U/A dated January 20, 1976, 12-3456789.
(7) Funds of lodges, churches, societies, or similar organizations. A bond may be registered in the title of the trustees, or a board of trustees, holding funds in trust for a lodge, church, or society, or similar organization, whether or not incorporated. Examples:
Funds of lodges, churches, societies, or similar organizations.
A bond may be registered in the title of the trustees, or a board of trustees, holding funds in trust for a lodge, church, or society, or similar organization, whether or not incorporated. Examples:
Trustees of the First Baptist Church, Akron, Ohio, acting as a Board under section 15 of its bylaws 12-3456789.
Trustees of Jamestown Lodge No. 1000, Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, under section 10 of its bylaws 12-3456789.
Board of Trustees of Lotus Club, Washington, Indiana, under Article 10 of its constitution 12-3456789.
(8) Investment agents for religious, educational, charitable and non-profit organizations. A bond may be registered in the name of a bank, trust company, or other financial institution, or an individual, as agent under an agreement with a religious, educational, charitable or non-profit organization, whether or not incorporated, if the agent holds funds for the sole purpose of investing them and paying the income to the organization. The name and designation of the agent must be followed by an adequate reference to the agreement. Examples:
Investment agents for religious, educational, charitable and non-profit organizations.
A bond may be registered in the name of a bank, trust company, or other financial institution, or an individual, as agent under an agreement with a religious, educational, charitable or non-profit organization, whether or not incorporated, if the agent holds funds for the sole purpose of investing them and paying the income to the organization. The name and designation of the agent must be followed by an adequate reference to the agreement. Examples:
Tenth National Bank, fiscal agent U/A with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of the Holy Trinity, dated 12/28/76, 12-3456789.
Sixth Trust Company, Investment Agent U/A dated September 16, 1976, with Central City Post, Department of Illinois, American Legion, 12-3456789.
John Jones, Investment Agent U/A dated September 16, 1976, with Central City Post, Department of Illinois, American Legion, 12-3456789.
(9) Funds of school groups or activities. A bond may be registered in the title of the principal or other officer of a public, private, or parochial school holding funds in trust for a student body fund or for a class, group, or activity. If the amount purchased for any one fund does not exceed $2,500 (face amount), no reference need be made to a trust instrument. Examples:
Funds of school groups or activities.
A bond may be registered in the title of the principal or other officer of a public, private, or parochial school holding funds in trust for a student body fund or for a class, group, or activity. If the amount purchased for any one fund does not exceed $2,500 (face amount), no reference need be made to a trust instrument. Examples:
Principal, Western High School, in trust for the Class of 1976 Library Fund, 12-3456789.
Director of Athletics, Western High School, in trust for Student Activities Association, under resolution adopted 5/12/76, 12-3456789.
(10) Public corporations, bodies, or officers as trustees. A bond may be registered in the name of a public corporation or a public body, or in the title of a public officer, acting as trustee under express authority of law, followed by an appropriate reference to the statute creating the trust. Examples:
Public corporations, bodies, or officers as trustees.
A bond may be registered in the name of a public corporation or a public body, or in the title of a public officer, acting as trustee under express authority of law, followed by an appropriate reference to the statute creating the trust. Examples:
Rhode Island Investment Commission, trustee of the General Sinking Fund under Title 35, Ch. 8, Gen. Laws of Rhode Island.
Superintendent of the Austin State Hospital Annex, in trust for the Benefit Fund under Article 3183C, Vernon's Civ. Stat. of Texas Ann.
(d) Private organizations (corporations, associations, partnerships)—(1) General. A bond may be registered in the name of any private organization in its own right. The full legal name of the organization as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other authority from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration and may be followed by a parenthetical reference to a particular account other than a trust account.
Private organizations (corporations, associations, partnerships)
—(1)
General.
A bond may be registered in the name of any private organization in its own right. The full legal name of the organization as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other authority from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration and may be followed by a parenthetical reference to a particular account other than a trust account.
(2) Corporations. A bond may be registered in the name of a business, fraternal, religious, non-profit, or other private corporation. The words “a corporation” must be included in the registration unless the fact of incorporation is shown in the name. Examples:
Corporations.
A bond may be registered in the name of a business, fraternal, religious, non-profit, or other private corporation. The words “a corporation” must be included in the registration unless the fact of incorporation is shown in the name. Examples:
Smith Manufacturing Company, a corporation 12-3456789.
Green and Redd, Inc. 12-3456789 (Depreciation Acct.).
(3) Unincorporated associations. A bond may be registered in the name of a club, lodge, society, or a similar self-governing association which is unincorporated. The words “an unincorporated association” must be included in the registration. This form of registration must not be used for a trust fund, board of trustees, a partnership, or a sole proprietorship. If the association is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization, the name or designation of the subordinate or local organization must be given first, followed by the name of the parent organization. The name of the parent organization may be placed in parentheses and, if well known, may be abbreviated. Examples:
Unincorporated associations.
A bond may be registered in the name of a club, lodge, society, or a similar self-governing association which is unincorporated. The words “an unincorporated association” must be included in the registration. This form of registration must not be used for a trust fund, board of trustees, a partnership, or a sole proprietorship. If the association is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization, the name or designation of the subordinate or local organization must be given first, followed by the name of the parent organization. The name of the parent organization may be placed in parentheses and, if well known, may be abbreviated. Examples:
The Lotus Club, an unincorporated association, 12-3456789.
Local 447, Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, an unincorporated association, 12-3456789.
Eureka Lodge 317 (A.F. and A.M.), an unincorporated association, 12-3456789.
(4) Partnerships. A bond may be registered in the name of a partnership. The words “a partnership” must be included in the registration. Examples:
Partnerships.
A bond may be registered in the name of a partnership. The words “a partnership” must be included in the registration. Examples:
Smith & Jones, a partnership, 12-3456789.
Acme Novelty Company, a partnership, 12-3456789.
(5) Sole proprietorships. A bond may be registered in the name of an individual who is doing business as a sole proprietor. A reference may be made to the trade name under which the business is conducted. Example:
Sole proprietorships.
A bond may be registered in the name of an individual who is doing business as a sole proprietor. A reference may be made to the trade name under which the business is conducted. Example:
John Jones d.b.a. Jones Roofing Company, 123-45-6789
(e) Institutions (churches, hospitals, homes, schools, etc.). A bond may be registered in the name of a church, hospital, home, school, or similar institution conducted by a private organization or by private trustees, regardless of the manner in which it is organized or governed or title to its property is held. Descriptive words, such as “a corporation” or “an unincorporated association”, must not be included in the registration. Examples:
Institutions (churches, hospitals, homes, schools, etc.).
A bond may be registered in the name of a church, hospital, home, school, or similar institution conducted by a private organization or by private trustees, regardless of the manner in which it is organized or governed or title to its property is held. Descriptive words, such as “a corporation” or “an unincorporated association”, must not be included in the registration. Examples:
Shriners' Hospital for Crippled Children, St. Louis, MO, 12-3456789.
St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, Albany, NY, 12-3456789.
Rodeph Shalom Sunday School, Philadelphia, PA, 12-3456789.
(f) States, public bodies and corporations, and public officers. A bond may be registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, school district, or other political entity, public body, or corporation established by law (including a board, commission, administration, authority, or agency) which is the owner or official custodian of public funds, other than trust funds, or in the full legal title of the public officer having custody of the funds. Examples:
States, public bodies and corporations, and public officers.
A bond may be registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, school district, or other political entity, public body, or corporation established by law (including a board, commission, administration, authority, or agency) which is the owner or official custodian of public funds, other than trust funds, or in the full legal title of the public officer having custody of the funds. Examples:
State of Maine.
Town of Rye, NY (Street Improvement Fund).
Maryland State Highway Administration.
Treasurer, City of Chicago.
(g) The United States Treasury. A person who desires to have a bond become the property of the United States upon his or her death may designate the United States Treasury as coowner or beneficiary. Examples:
The United States Treasury.
A person who desires to have a bond become the property of the United States upon his or her death may designate the United States Treasury as coowner or beneficiary. Examples:
George T. Jones 123-45-6789 or the United States Treasury.
George T. Jones 123-45-6789 P.O.D. the United States Treasury.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006]]

Subpart C—Limitations on Annual Purchases


§ 315.10   Limitations.

Specific limitations have been placed on the amounts of bonds of each series and savings notes that might be purchased in any one year in the name of any one person or organization. The amounts applicable to each series of bonds and savings notes for each specific year, which has varied from time to time, can be found in the appropriate offering circulars, as revised and amended.

§ 315.11   Excess purchases.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service may permit excess purchases to stand in any particular case or class of cases.

Subpart D—Limitations on Transfer or Pledge


§ 315.15   Transfer.

Savings bonds are not transferable and are payable only to the owners named on the bonds, except as specifically provided in these regulations and then only in the manner and to the extent so provided.

§ 315.16   Pledge.

(a) General. A savings bond may not be hypothecated, pledged, or used as security for the performance of an obligation, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
General.
A savings bond may not be hypothecated, pledged, or used as security for the performance of an obligation, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Pledge under Treasury Circular No. 154. A bond may be pledged by the registered owner in lieu of surety under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 154, current revision (31 CFR part 225), if the bond approving officer is the Secretary of the Treasury. In this case, an irrevocable power of attorney shall be executed authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to request payment.
Pledge under Treasury Circular No. 154.
A bond may be pledged by the registered owner in lieu of surety under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 154, current revision (31 CFR part 225), if the bond approving officer is the Secretary of the Treasury. In this case, an irrevocable power of attorney shall be executed authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to request payment.

Subpart E—Limitations on Judicial Proceedings—No Stoppage or Caveats Permitted


§ 315.20   General.

The following general rules apply to the recognition of a judicial determination on adverse claims affecting savings bonds:
(a) The Department of the Treasury will not recognize a judicial determination that gives effect to an attempted voluntary transfer inter vivos of a bond, or a judicial determination that impairs the rights of survivorship conferred by these regulations upon a coowner or beneficiary. All provisions of this subpart are subject to these restrictions.
(b) The Department of the Treasury will recognize a claim against an owner of a savings bond and conflicting claims of ownership of, or interest in, a bond between coowners or between the registered owner and the beneficiary, if established by valid, judicial proceedings specifically listed in this subpart. Escheat proceedings will not be recognized under this subpart. Section 315.23 specifies evidence required to establish the validity of judicial proceedings. Treasury may require any other evidence to establish the validity of judicial proceedings, such as evidence that the proceeding provided due process, complied with this part, and complied with relevant state law.
(c) The Department of the Treasury and the agencies that issue, reissue, or redeem savings bonds will not accept a notice of an adverse claim or notice of pending judicial proceedings, nor undertake to protect the interests of a litigant not in possession of a savings bond.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 80 FR 80264, Dec. 24, 2015]]

§ 315.21   Payment to judgment creditors.

(a) Purchaser or officer under levy. The Department of the Treasury will pay (but not reissue) a savings bond to the purchaser at a sale under a levy or to the officer authorized under appropriate process to levy upon property of the registered owner or coowner to satisfy a money judgment. Payment will be made only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment. The amount paid is limited to the redemption value 60 days after the termination of the judicial proceedings. Payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to a judgment or a levy against only one coowner is limited to the extent of that coowner's interest in the bond. That interest must be established by an agreement between the coowners or by a judgment, decree, or order of a court in a proceeding to which both coowners are parties.
Purchaser or officer under levy.
The Department of the Treasury will pay (but not reissue) a savings bond to the purchaser at a sale under a levy or to the officer authorized under appropriate process to levy upon property of the registered owner or coowner to satisfy a money judgment. Payment will be made only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment. The amount paid is limited to the redemption value 60 days after the termination of the judicial proceedings. Payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to a judgment or a levy against only one coowner is limited to the extent of that coowner's interest in the bond. That interest must be established by an agreement between the coowners or by a judgment, decree, or order of a court in a proceeding to which both coowners are parties.
(b) Trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, or similar court officer. The Department of the Treasury will pay, at current redemption value, a savings bond to a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
Trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, or similar court officer.
The Department of the Treasury will pay, at current redemption value, a savings bond to a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.

§ 315.22   Payment or reissue pursuant to judgment.

(a) Divorce. The Department of the Treasury will recognize a divorce decree that ratifies or confirms a property settlement agreement disposing of bonds or that otherwise settles the interests of the parties in a bond. Reissue of a savings bond may be made to eliminate the name of one spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary, or to substitute the name of one spouse for that of the other spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary pursuant to the decree. However, if the bond is registered in the name of one spouse with another person as coowner, there must be submitted either:
Divorce.
The Department of the Treasury will recognize a divorce decree that ratifies or confirms a property settlement agreement disposing of bonds or that otherwise settles the interests of the parties in a bond. Reissue of a savings bond may be made to eliminate the name of one spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary, or to substitute the name of one spouse for that of the other spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary pursuant to the decree. However, if the bond is registered in the name of one spouse with another person as coowner, there must be submitted either:
(1) A request for reissue by the other person or
(2) A certified copy of a judgment, decree, or court order entered in proceedings to which the other person and the spouse named on the bond are parties, determining the extent of the interest of that spouse in the bond.
Reissue will be permitted only to the extent of that spouse's interest. The evidence required under § 315.23 must be submitted in every case. When the divorce decree does not set out the terms of the property settlement agreement, a certified copy of the agreement must be submitted. Payment, rather than reissue, will be made if requested.
(b) Gift causa mortis. A savings bond belonging solely to one individual will be paid or reissued at the request of the person found by a court to be entitled by reason of a gift causa mortis from the sole owner.
Gift causa mortis.
A savings bond belonging solely to one individual will be paid or reissued at the request of the person found by a court to be entitled by reason of a gift causa mortis from the sole owner.
(c) Date for determining rights. When payment or reissue under this section is to be made, the rights of the parties will be those existing under the regulations current at the time of the entry of the final judgment, decree, or court order.
Date for determining rights.
When payment or reissue under this section is to be made, the rights of the parties will be those existing under the regulations current at the time of the entry of the final judgment, decree, or court order.

§ 315.23   Evidence.

(a) General. To establish the validity of judicial proceedings, certified copies of the final judgment, decree, or court order, and of any necessary supplementary proceedings, must be submitted. If the judgment, decree, or court order was rendered more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond, there must also be submitted a certificate from the clerk of the court, under court seal, dated within six months of the presentation of the bond, showing that the judgment, decree, or court order is in full force.
General.
To establish the validity of judicial proceedings, certified copies of the final judgment, decree, or court order, and of any necessary supplementary proceedings, must be submitted. If the judgment, decree, or court order was rendered more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond, there must also be submitted a certificate from the clerk of the court, under court seal, dated within six months of the presentation of the bond, showing that the judgment, decree, or court order is in full force.
(b) Trustee in bankruptcy or receiver of an insolvent's estate. A request for payment by a trustee in bankruptcy or a receiver of an insolvent's estate must be supported by appropriate evidence of appointment and qualification. The evidence must be certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
Trustee in bankruptcy or receiver of an insolvent's estate.
A request for payment by a trustee in bankruptcy or a receiver of an insolvent's estate must be supported by appropriate evidence of appointment and qualification. The evidence must be certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
(c) Receiver in equity or similar court officer. A request for payment by the receiver in equity or a similar court officer, other than a receiver of an insolvent's estate, must be supported by a copy of an order that authorizes the presentation of the bond for redemption, certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
Receiver in equity or similar court officer.
A request for payment by the receiver in equity or a similar court officer, other than a receiver of an insolvent's estate, must be supported by a copy of an order that authorizes the presentation of the bond for redemption, certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.

Subpart F—Relief for Loss, Theft, Destruction, Mutilation, Defacement, or Nonreceipt of Bonds


§ 315.25   General.

Relief, by the issue of a substitute bond or by payment, is authorized for the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of a bond after receipt by the owner or his or her representative. As a condition for granting relief, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may require a bond of indemnity, in the form, and with the surety, or security, he considers necessary to protect the interests of the United States. In all cases the savings bond must be identified by serial number and the applicant must submit satisfactory evidence of the loss, theft, or destruction, or a satisfactory explanation of the mutilation or defacement.

§ 315.26   Application for relief—after receipt of bond.

(a) Serial number known. If the serial number of the lost, stolen, or destroyed bond is known, the claimant should execute an application for relief on the appropriate form and submit it to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
Serial number known.
If the serial number of the lost, stolen, or destroyed bond is known, the claimant should execute an application for relief on the appropriate form and submit it to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
(b) Serial number not known. If the bond serial number is not known, the claimant must provide sufficient information to enable the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to identify the bond by serial number. See § 315.29(c). The Bureau will furnish the proper application form and instructions.
Serial number not known.
If the bond serial number is not known, the claimant must provide sufficient information to enable the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to identify the bond by serial number. See § 315.29(c). The Bureau will furnish the proper application form and instructions.
(c) Defaced or mutilated bond. A defaced bond and all available fragments of a mutilated bond should be submitted to the Bureau.
Defaced or mutilated bond.
A defaced bond and all available fragments of a mutilated bond should be submitted to the Bureau.
(d) Execution of claims application. The application must be made by the person or persons (including both coowners, if living) authorized under these regulations to request payment of the bonds. In addition—
Execution of claims application.
The application must be made by the person or persons (including both coowners, if living) authorized under these regulations to request payment of the bonds. In addition—
(1) If the bond is in beneficiary form and the owner and beneficiary are both living, both will ordinarily be required to join in the application.
(2) If a minor named on a bond as owner, coowner, or beneficiary is not of sufficient competency and understanding to request payment, both parents will ordinarily be required to join in the application.
(e) If the application is approved, relief will be granted by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by the issuance of a check in payment.

§ 315.27   Application for relief—nonreceipt of bond.

If a bond issued on any transaction is not received, the issuing agent must be notified as promptly as possible and given all information available about the nonreceipt. An appropriate form and instructions will be provided. If the application is approved, relief will be granted by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond that was not received.

§ 315.28   Recovery or receipt of bond before or after relief is granted.

(a) Recovery prior to granting relief. If a bond reported lost, stolen, destroyed, or not received, is recovered or received before relief is granted, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101, must be notified promptly.
Recovery prior to granting relief.
If a bond reported lost, stolen, destroyed, or not received, is recovered or received before relief is granted, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101, must be notified promptly.
(b) Recovery subsequent to granting of relief. A bond for which relief has been granted is the property of the United States and, if recovered, must be promptly submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101, for cancellation.
Recovery subsequent to granting of relief.
A bond for which relief has been granted is the property of the United States and, if recovered, must be promptly submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101, for cancellation.

§ 315.29   Adjudication of claims.

(a) General. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will adjudicate claims for lost, stolen or destroyed bonds on the basis of records created and regularly maintained in the ordinary course of business.
General.
The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will adjudicate claims for lost, stolen or destroyed bonds on the basis of records created and regularly maintained in the ordinary course of business.
(b) Claims filed ten years after payment. A bond for which no claim has been filed within ten years of the recorded date of redemption will be presumed to have been properly paid. If a claim is subsequently filed, a photographic copy of the bond will not be available to support the disallowance. This provision will be effective 60 days after the effective date of the Eleventh Revision of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 530 (31 CFR part 315).
Claims filed ten years after payment.
A bond for which no claim has been filed within ten years of the recorded date of redemption will be presumed to have been properly paid. If a claim is subsequently filed, a photographic copy of the bond will not be available to support the disallowance. This provision will be effective 60 days after the effective date of the Eleventh Revision of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 530 (31 CFR part 315).
(c) Claims filed six years after final maturity. No claim filed six years or more after the final maturity of a savings bond will be entertained, unless the claimant supplies the serial number of the bond.
Claims filed six years after final maturity.
No claim filed six years or more after the final maturity of a savings bond will be entertained, unless the claimant supplies the serial number of the bond.

Subpart G—Interest


§ 315.30   Series E bonds and savings notes.

Series E bonds and savings notes are discount securities. The accrued interest is added to the issue price at stated intervals and is payable only at redemption as part of the redemption value. All Series E bonds and savings notes have been extended and continue to earn interest until their final maturity dates, unless redeemed earlier. Information regarding extended maturity periods, investment yields and redemption values is found in Department of the Treasury Circular No. 653, current revision (31 CFR part 316) for Series E bonds, and in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-67, current revision (31 CFR part 342) for savings notes.

§ 315.31   Series H bonds.

(a) General. Series H bonds are current income bonds issued at par (face amount). Interest on a Series H bond is paid semiannually beginning six months from the issue date. Interest ceases at final maturity, or if the bond is redeemed prior to final maturity, as of the end of the interest period last preceding the date of redemption. For example, if a bond on which interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 is redeemed on September 1, interest ceases as of the preceding July 1, and no interest will be paid for the period from July 1 to September 1. However, if the redemption date falls on an interest payment date, interest ceases on that date. Information regarding authorized extended maturity periods and investment yields is found in Department Circular No. 905, current revision (31 CFR part 332).
General.
Series H bonds are current income bonds issued at par (face amount). Interest on a Series H bond is paid semiannually beginning six months from the issue date. Interest ceases at final maturity, or if the bond is redeemed prior to final maturity, as of the end of the interest period last preceding the date of redemption. For example, if a bond on which interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 is redeemed on September 1, interest ceases as of the preceding July 1, and no interest will be paid for the period from July 1 to September 1. However, if the redemption date falls on an interest payment date, interest ceases on that date. Information regarding authorized extended maturity periods and investment yields is found in Department Circular No. 905, current revision (31 CFR part 332).
(b) Payment of interest. Series H bond interest accounts are maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV. Interest is paid on each payment date by check drawn to the order of the owner or both coowners or, upon request, by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) method to the owner or coowner's account at a financial institution. Checks will be mailed to the delivery address provided to the Bureau.
Payment of interest.
Series H bond interest accounts are maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV. Interest is paid on each payment date by check drawn to the order of the owner or both coowners or, upon request, by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) method to the owner or coowner's account at a financial institution. Checks will be mailed to the delivery address provided to the Bureau.
(c) Delivery of interest—(1) Notices affecting the delivery of interest payments. To ensure appropriate action, notices affecting the delivery of interest payments on Series H bonds must be received by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV, 26102-1328, at least one month prior to the interest payment date. Each notice must include the owner or coowner's name and the taxpayer identifying number appearing on the account under which records of the bonds are maintained.
Delivery of interest
—(1)
Notices affecting the delivery of interest payments.
To ensure appropriate action, notices affecting the delivery of interest payments on Series H bonds must be received by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV, 26102-1328, at least one month prior to the interest payment date. Each notice must include the owner or coowner's name and the taxpayer identifying number appearing on the account under which records of the bonds are maintained.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0094)
(2) Owner or coowner deceased—(i) Sole owner. Upon receipt of notice of the death of the owner of a bond, payment of interest will be suspended until satisfactory evidence is submitted as to who is authorized to receive and collect interest payments on behalf of the estate of the decedent, in accordance with the provisions of subpart L.
Owner or coowner deceased
—(i)
Sole owner.
Upon receipt of notice of the death of the owner of a bond, payment of interest will be suspended until satisfactory evidence is submitted as to who is authorized to receive and collect interest payments on behalf of the estate of the decedent, in accordance with the provisions of subpart L.
(ii) Coowner. Upon receipt of notice of the death of the ooowner to whom interest payments have been directed, payment of interest will be suspended until delivery instructions are received from the other coowner, if living. If both coowners are deceased, payment of interest will be suspended until satisfactory evidence is submitted as to who is authorized to receive and collect interest payments on behalf of the estate of the last deceased coowner, in accordance with the provisions of subpart L.
Coowner.
Upon receipt of notice of the death of the ooowner to whom interest payments have been directed, payment of interest will be suspended until delivery instructions are received from the other coowner, if living. If both coowners are deceased, payment of interest will be suspended until satisfactory evidence is submitted as to who is authorized to receive and collect interest payments on behalf of the estate of the last deceased coowner, in accordance with the provisions of subpart L.
(iii) Owner with beneficiary. Interest on a bond registered in beneficiary form is paid to the owner during his or her lifetime. Upon receiving notice of the owner's death, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will suspend payment of interest until the bond is presented for payment or reissue by the beneficiary, if surviving, or some other proper party. Interest so withheld will be paid to the person entitled to the bond.
Owner with beneficiary.
Interest on a bond registered in beneficiary form is paid to the owner during his or her lifetime. Upon receiving notice of the owner's death, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will suspend payment of interest until the bond is presented for payment or reissue by the beneficiary, if surviving, or some other proper party. Interest so withheld will be paid to the person entitled to the bond.
(d) Representative appointed for the estate of a minor, incompetent, absentee, et al. Interest on Series H bonds is paid in accordance with the provisions of § 315.60 to the representative appointed for the estate of an owner who is a minor, incompetent, absentee, et al. If the registration of the bonds does not include reference to the owner's status, the bonds should be submitted for reissue to a designated Federal Reserve Bank so that interest payments may be properly delivered. They must be accompanied by proof of appointment as required by § 315.60.
Representative appointed for the estate of a minor, incompetent, absentee, et al.
Interest on Series H bonds is paid in accordance with the provisions of § 315.60 to the representative appointed for the estate of an owner who is a minor, incompetent, absentee, et al. If the registration of the bonds does not include reference to the owner's status, the bonds should be submitted for reissue to a designated Federal Reserve Bank so that interest payments may be properly delivered. They must be accompanied by proof of appointment as required by § 315.60.
(e) Adult incapacitated owner having no representative. If an adult owner of a Series H bond is incompetent to receive and collect interest payments, and no legal guardian or similar representative has been appointed to act for him or her, the relative, or other person, responsible for the owner's care and support may apply to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for recognition as voluntary guardian for the purpose of receiving and collecting the payments.
Adult incapacitated owner having no representative.
If an adult owner of a Series H bond is incompetent to receive and collect interest payments, and no legal guardian or similar representative has been appointed to act for him or her, the relative, or other person, responsible for the owner's care and support may apply to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for recognition as voluntary guardian for the purpose of receiving and collecting the payments.
(f) Reissue during interest period. Physical reissue of a Series H bond may be made without regard to interest payment dates. The Series H accounts maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will be closed in the first week of the month preceding each interest payment date, and payments will be made pursuant to the information contained in the accounts as of the date they are closed.
Reissue during interest period.
Physical reissue of a Series H bond may be made without regard to interest payment dates. The Series H accounts maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will be closed in the first week of the month preceding each interest payment date, and payments will be made pursuant to the information contained in the accounts as of the date they are closed.
(g) Endorsement of checks. Interest checks must be endorsed in accordance with the regulations governing the payment of fiscal agency checks contained in 31 CFR part 355.
Endorsement of checks.
Interest checks must be endorsed in accordance with the regulations governing the payment of fiscal agency checks contained in 31 CFR part 355.
(h) Deposit account information for ACH payments—(1) Payments on same account. Payments on all Series H bonds assigned to the same account maintained by the Bureau will be made to the same deposit account at a financial institution.
Deposit account information for ACH payments
—(1)
Payments on same account.
Payments on all Series H bonds assigned to the same account maintained by the Bureau will be made to the same deposit account at a financial institution.
(2) Deposit account held by individuals in their own right. Where the Series H bonds are registered in the name of individual(s) as sole owner, or as owner and beneficiary, and the deposit account at the financial institution is held in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the owner's name must appear on the deposit account. Where the bonds are registered in the names of two individuals as coowners and the deposit account is held in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the registration of the bonds and the title of the account must contain at least one name that is common to both. The deposit account to which the interest payments are directed should preferably be established in a form identical to the registration of the bonds to ensure that rights of ownership and survivorship can be more easily identified and preserved. Neither the United States nor any Federal Reserve Bank shall be liable for any loss sustained because the interest(s) of the holder(s) of a deposit account to which payments are directed are not the same as the owner(s) of the bonds.
Deposit account held by individuals in their own right.
Where the Series H bonds are registered in the name of individual(s) as sole owner, or as owner and beneficiary, and the deposit account at the financial institution is held in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the owner's name must appear on the deposit account. Where the bonds are registered in the names of two individuals as coowners and the deposit account is held in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the registration of the bonds and the title of the account must contain at least one name that is common to both. The deposit account to which the interest payments are directed should preferably be established in a form identical to the registration of the bonds to ensure that rights of ownership and survivorship can be more easily identified and preserved. Neither the United States nor any Federal Reserve Bank shall be liable for any loss sustained because the interest(s) of the holder(s) of a deposit account to which payments are directed are not the same as the owner(s) of the bonds.
(3) Deposit account held by organization. Where the deposit account to which interest payments are to be directed is held in the name of the financial institution itself, acting as sole trustee or as co-trustee, or is in the name of a commercially-managed investment fund, the owner or coowner should inquire whether the financial institution is able to receive ACH payments; if not, the owner or coowner should make alternative arrangements.
Deposit account held by organization.
Where the deposit account to which interest payments are to be directed is held in the name of the financial institution itself, acting as sole trustee or as co-trustee, or is in the name of a commercially-managed investment fund, the owner or coowner should inquire whether the financial institution is able to receive ACH payments; if not, the owner or coowner should make alternative arrangements.
(4) Financial institution cannot accept ACH payments. If after submission of deposit account information, it is determined that ACH payments cannot be accepted by the designated financial institution, pending receipt of new deposit account information, payment will be made by check drawn to the registered owner or both coowners and mailed to the address of record.
Financial institution cannot accept ACH payments.
If after submission of deposit account information, it is determined that ACH payments cannot be accepted by the designated financial institution, pending receipt of new deposit account information, payment will be made by check drawn to the registered owner or both coowners and mailed to the address of record.
(5) Cancellation of ACH arrangement. An ACH arrangement shall remain in effect until it is terminated by a request from the owner or coowner submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102-1328.
Cancellation of ACH arrangement.
An ACH arrangement shall remain in effect until it is terminated by a request from the owner or coowner submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102-1328.
(6) Rules. Series H interest payments made by the ACH method are governed by the regulations at 31 CFR part 370.
Rules.
Series H interest payments made by the ACH method are governed by the regulations at 31 CFR part 370.
(7) Nonreceipt or loss of interest payment. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102 should be notified if:
Nonreceipt or loss of interest payment.
The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102 should be notified if:
(i) An interest check is not received or is lost after receipt or
(ii) An ACH payment is not credited to the designated account and the financial institution has no record of receiving it. The notice should include the owner or coowner's name and taxpayer identifying number and the interest payment date.
[[54 FR 40255, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994; 64 FR 40486, July 26, 1999]]

§ 315.32   Series A, B, C, D, F, G, J, and K bonds.

All bonds of these series have matured and no longer earn interest.

Subpart H—General Provisions for Payment


§ 315.35   Payment (redemption).

(a) General. Payment of a savings bond will be made to the person or persons entitled under the provisions of these regulations, except that checks in payment will not be delivered to addresses in areas with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Payment will be made without regard to any notice of adverse claims to a bond and no notification of stoppage or caveat against payment of a bond will be made.
General.
Payment of a savings bond will be made to the person or persons entitled under the provisions of these regulations, except that checks in payment will not be delivered to addresses in areas with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Payment will be made without regard to any notice of adverse claims to a bond and no notification of stoppage or caveat against payment of a bond will be made.
(b) Series A, B, C, D, F, and J. A bond of Series A, B, C, D, F, or J will be paid at face value.
Series A, B, C, D, F, and J.
A bond of Series A, B, C, D, F, or J will be paid at face value.
(c) Series E and Savings Notes. A Series E bond will be paid at any time after two months from issue date at the appropriate redemption value shown in Department of the Treasury Circular No. 653 (31 CFR part 316), current revision. A savings note will be paid at anytime at the appropriate redemption value shown in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-67, current revision (31 CFR part 342).
Series E and Savings Notes.
A Series E bond will be paid at any time after two months from issue date at the appropriate redemption value shown in Department of the Treasury Circular No. 653 (31 CFR part 316), current revision. A savings note will be paid at anytime at the appropriate redemption value shown in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-67, current revision (31 CFR part 342).
(d) Series G and K. A bond of Series G or K will be paid at face value plus the final semiannual interest due. For Series G bonds, the final interest paid with principal is $1.25 per $100; for Series K bonds, the final interest is $6.90 per $500.
Series G and K.
A bond of Series G or K will be paid at face value plus the final semiannual interest due. For Series G bonds, the final interest paid with principal is $1.25 per $100; for Series K bonds, the final interest is $6.90 per $500.
(e) Series H. A Series H bond will be redeemed at face value at any time after six (6) months from issue date. In any case where Series H bonds are surrendered to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Department of the Treasury for redemption in the month prior to an interest payment date, redemption will not be deferred but will be made in regular course, unless the presenter specifically requests that the transaction be delayed until that date. A request to defer redemption made more than one month preceding the interest payment date will not be accepted.
Series H.
A Series H bond will be redeemed at face value at any time after six (6) months from issue date. In any case where Series H bonds are surrendered to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Department of the Treasury for redemption in the month prior to an interest payment date, redemption will not be deferred but will be made in regular course, unless the presenter specifically requests that the transaction be delayed until that date. A request to defer redemption made more than one month preceding the interest payment date will not be accepted.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 23753, July 1, 1986; 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 315.36   Payment during life of sole owner.

A savings bond registered in single ownership form (i.e., without a coowner or beneficiary) will be paid to the owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request.
i.e.
, without a coowner or beneficiary) will be paid to the owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request.

§ 315.37   Payment during lives of both coowners.

A savings bond registered in coownership form will be paid to either coowner upon surrender with an appropriate request, and, upon payment (as determined in § 315.43), the other coowner will cease to have any interest in the bond. If both coowners request payment and payment is to be made by check, the check will be drawn in the form, “John A. Jones and Mary C. Jones”.

§ 315.38   Payment during lifetime of owner of beneficiary bond.

A savings bond registered in beneficiary form will be paid to the registered owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request. Upon payment (as determined in § 315.43), the beneficiary will cease to have any interest in the bond.

§ 315.39   Surrender for payment.

(a) Procedure for bonds of Series A to E, inclusive, in the names of individual owners or coowners only. An individual who is the owner or coowner of a bond of Series A, B, C, D, or E may present the bond to an authorized paying agent for redemption. The presenter must be prepared to establish his or her identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and identification guidelines. The owner or coowner must sign the request for payment on the bond or, if authorized, on a separate detached request, and add his or her address. In addition, in the case of a Series E bond or savings note, the presenter must record his or her social security number on the face of the security, provided it does not already appear in the inscription. Paying agents are authorized to refuse payment in any case where the presenter's number is not provided. If the request for payment has been signed, or signed and certified, before presentation of the bond, the paying agent must be satisfied that the person presenting the bond for payment is the owner or coowner and may require the person to sign the request for payment again. If the bond is in order for payment, the paying agent will make immediate payment at the current redemption value without charge to the presenter. Paying agents are not authorized to process any case involving partial redemption or any case in which supporting evidence is required.
Procedure for bonds of Series A to E, inclusive, in the names of individual owners or coowners only.
An individual who is the owner or coowner of a bond of Series A, B, C, D, or E may present the bond to an authorized paying agent for redemption. The presenter must be prepared to establish his or her identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and identification guidelines. The owner or coowner must sign the request for payment on the bond or, if authorized, on a separate detached request, and add his or her address. In addition, in the case of a Series E bond or savings note, the presenter must record his or her social security number on the face of the security, provided it does not already appear in the inscription. Paying agents are authorized to refuse payment in any case where the presenter's number is not provided. If the request for payment has been signed, or signed and certified, before presentation of the bond, the paying agent must be satisfied that the person presenting the bond for payment is the owner or coowner and may require the person to sign the request for payment again. If the bond is in order for payment, the paying agent will make immediate payment at the current redemption value without charge to the presenter. Paying agents are not authorized to process any case involving partial redemption or any case in which supporting evidence is required.
(b) Procedure for all other cases. In the case of a bond to which the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply, or if otherwise preferred, the owner or coowner, or other person entitled to payment, should appear before an officer authorized to certify requests for payment, establish his or her identity, sign the request for payment, and provide information as to the address to which the check in payment is to be mailed. In addition, in the case of a Series E bond or savings note, the presenter must record his or her social security number on the face of the security, provided it does not already appear in the inscription. The bond must be forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Usually, payment will be expedited by submission to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. In all cases, the cost and risk of presentation of a bond will be borne by the owner. Payment will be made by check drawn to the order of the registered owner or other person entitled and will be mailed to the address requested.
Procedure for all other cases.
In the case of a bond to which the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply, or if otherwise preferred, the owner or coowner, or other person entitled to payment, should appear before an officer authorized to certify requests for payment, establish his or her identity, sign the request for payment, and provide information as to the address to which the check in payment is to be mailed. In addition, in the case of a Series E bond or savings note, the presenter must record his or her social security number on the face of the security, provided it does not already appear in the inscription. The bond must be forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Usually, payment will be expedited by submission to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. In all cases, the cost and risk of presentation of a bond will be borne by the owner. Payment will be made by check drawn to the order of the registered owner or other person entitled and will be mailed to the address requested.
(c) Date of request. Requests executed more than six months before the date of receipt of a bond for payment will not be accepted. Neither will a bond be accepted if payment is requested as of a date more than three months in the future.
Date of request.
Requests executed more than six months before the date of receipt of a bond for payment will not be accepted. Neither will a bond be accepted if payment is requested as of a date more than three months in the future.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 315.40   Special provisions for payment.

(a) Owner's signature not required. A bond may be paid by a paying agent or a designated Federal Reserve Bank without the owner's signature to the request for payment, if the bond bears the special endorsement of a financial institution specifically qualified to place such an endorsement on savings bonds under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 888, current revision (31 CFR part 330).
Owner's signature not required.
A bond may be paid by a paying agent or a designated Federal Reserve Bank without the owner's signature to the request for payment, if the bond bears the special endorsement of a financial institution specifically qualified to place such an endorsement on savings bonds under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 888, current revision (31 CFR part 330).
(b) Signature by mark. A signature by mark (X) must be witnessed by at least one disinterested person and a certifying officer. See subpart J. The witness must attest to the signature by mark substantially as follows: “Witness to signature by mark,” followed by his or her signature and address.
Signature by mark.
A signature by mark (X) must be witnessed by at least one disinterested person and a certifying officer. See subpart J. The witness must attest to the signature by mark substantially as follows: “Witness to signature by mark,” followed by his or her signature and address.
(c) Name change. If the name of the owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment, as it appears in the registration or in evidence on file in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, has been changed in any legal manner, the signature to the request for payment must show both names and the manner in which the change was made; for example, “Mary T. Jones Smith (Mary T. J. Smith or Mary T. Smith) changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones,” or “John R. Young, changed by order of court from Hans R. Jung.” See § 315.50.
Name change.
If the name of the owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment, as it appears in the registration or in evidence on file in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, has been changed in any legal manner, the signature to the request for payment must show both names and the manner in which the change was made; for example, “Mary T. Jones Smith (Mary T. J. Smith or Mary T. Smith) changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones,” or “John R. Young, changed by order of court from Hans R. Jung.” See § 315.50.
(d) Attorneys-in-fact. A request for payment, reinvestment, or exchange executed by an attorney-in-fact will be recognized if it is accompanied by a copy of the power of attorney that meets the following requirements:
Attorneys-in-fact.
A request for payment, reinvestment, or exchange executed by an attorney-in-fact will be recognized if it is accompanied by a copy of the power of attorney that meets the following requirements:
(1) The power of attorney must bear the grantor's signature, properly certified or notarized, in accordance with applicable State law;
(2) The power of attorney must grant, by its terms, authority for the attorney-in-fact to sell or redeem the grantor's securities, sell his or her personal property, or, otherwise contain similar authority; and
(3) In the case of a grantor who has become incapacitated, the power of attorney must conform with pertinent provisions of State law concerning its durability. Generally, in such circumstances, the power of attorney should provide that the authority granted will not be affected by the subsequent incompetence or incapacity of the grantor. Medical evidence or other proof of the grantor's condition may be required in any case.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 39602, Sept. 1, 1992; 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 315.41   Partial redemption.

A bond of any series may be redeemed in part at current redemption value, but only in an amount corresponding to one or more authorized denominations, upon surrender of the bond to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service in accordance with § 315.39(b). In any case in which partial redemption is requested, the phrase “to the extent of $__ (face amount) and reissue of the remainder” should be added to the request. Upon partial redemption of the bond, the remainder will be reissued as of the original issue date, as provided in subpart I.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 315.42   Nonreceipt or loss of check issued in payment.

If a Treasury check in payment of a bond surrendered for redemption is not received within a reasonable time or is lost after receipt, notice should be given to the same agency to which the bond was surrendered for payment. The notice should give the date the bond was surrendered for payment, and describe the bond by series, denomination, serial number, and registration, including the taxpayer identifying number of the owner.

§ 315.43   Effective date of request for payment.

The Department of the Treasury will treat the receipt of a bond with an appropiate request for payment by:
(a) A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch,
(b) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or
(c) A paying agent authorized to pay that bond, as the date upon which the rights of the parties are fixed for the purpose of payment.

§ 315.44   Withdrawal of request for payment.

(a) Withdrawal by owner or coowner. An owner or coowner, who has surrendered a bond to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or an authorized paying agent with an appropriate request for payment, may withdraw the request if notice of intent to withdraw is received by the same agency prior to payment either in cash or through the issuance of the redemption check.
Withdrawal by owner or coowner.
An owner or coowner, who has surrendered a bond to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or an authorized paying agent with an appropriate request for payment, may withdraw the request if notice of intent to withdraw is received by the same agency prior to payment either in cash or through the issuance of the redemption check.
(b) Withdrawal on behalf of deceased owner or incompetent. A request for payment may be withdrawn under the same conditions as in paragraph (a) of this section by the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased owner or by the person or persons who would have been entitled to the bond under subpart L, or by the legal representative of the estate of a person under legal disability, unless surrender of the bond for payment has eliminated the interest of a surviving coowner or beneficiary. See § 315.70 (b) and (c).
Withdrawal on behalf of deceased owner or incompetent.
A request for payment may be withdrawn under the same conditions as in paragraph (a) of this section by the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased owner or by the person or persons who would have been entitled to the bond under subpart L, or by the legal representative of the estate of a person under legal disability, unless surrender of the bond for payment has eliminated the interest of a surviving coowner or beneficiary. See § 315.70 (b) and (c).

Subpart I—Reissue and Denominational Exchange


§ 315.45   General.

Reissue of a bond may be made only under the conditions specified in these regulations, and only at:
(a) A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or
(b) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
Reissue will not be made if the request is received less than one full calendar month before the final maturity date of a bond. The request, however, will be effective to establish ownership as though the reissue had been made.

§ 315.46   Effective date of request for reissue.

The Department of the Treasury will treat the receipt by:
(a) A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or
(b) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service of a bond and an acceptable request for reissue as determining the date upon which the rights of the parties are fixed for the purpose of reissue.
For example, if the owner or either coowner of a bond dies after the bond has been surrendered for reissue, the bond will be regarded as having been reissued in the decedent's lifetime.

§ 315.47   Authorized reissue—during lifetime.

A bond belonging to an individual may be reissued in any authorized form of registration upon an appropriate request for the purposes outlined below:
(a) Single ownership. A bond registered in single ownership form may be reissued—
Single ownership.
A bond registered in single ownership form may be reissued—
(1) To add a coowner or beneficiary;
(2) To name a new owner, with or without a coowner or beneficiary, but only if:
(i) The new owner is related to the previous owner by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage,
(ii) The previous owner and the new owner are parties to a divorce or annulment, or
(iii) The new sole owner is the trustee of a personal trust estate which was created by the previous owner or which designates as beneficiary either the previous owner or a person related to him or her by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage.
(b) Coownership—(1) Reissue—to name a related individual as owner or coowner. During the lifetime of both coowners, a coownership bond may be reissued in the name of another individual related by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage to either coowner—
Coownership
—(1)
Reissue—to name a related individual as owner or coowner.
During the lifetime of both coowners, a coownership bond may be reissued in the name of another individual related by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage to either coowner—
(i) As single owner,
(ii) As owner with one of the original coowners as beneficiary, or
(iii) As a new coowner with one of the original coowners.
(2) Reissue—to name either coowner alone or with another individual as coowner or beneficiary. During the lifetime of both coowners, a coownership bond may be reissued in the name of either coowner alone or with another individual as coowner or beneficiary if—
Reissue—to name either coowner alone or with another individual as coowner or beneficiary.
During the lifetime of both coowners, a coownership bond may be reissued in the name of either coowner alone or with another individual as coowner or beneficiary if—
(i) After issue of the submitted bond, either coowner named thereon marries, or the coowners are divorced or legally separated from each other, or their marriage is annulled; or
(ii) Both coowners on the submitted bond are related by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage to each other.
(3) Reissue—to name the trustee of a personal trust estate. A bond registered in coownership form may be reissued to name a trustee of a personal trust estate created by either coowner or by some other person if:
Reissue—to name the trustee of a personal trust estate.
A bond registered in coownership form may be reissued to name a trustee of a personal trust estate created by either coowner or by some other person if:
(i) Either coowner is a beneficiary of the trust, or
(ii) A beneficiary of the trust is related by blood or marriage to either coowner.
(c) Beneficiary. A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued—
Beneficiary.
A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued—
(1) To name the beneficiary as coowner;
(2) To eliminate the name of the owner and to name as owner a custodian for the beneficiary, if a minor, under a statute authorizing gifts to minors;
(3) To eliminate the beneficiary or to substitute another individual as beneficiary, but only if the request is supported by the certified consent of the beneficiary or by proof of his or her death; or
(4) To eliminate the names of the owner and the beneficiary and to name as new owner the trustee of the personal trust estate which was created by the previous owner or which designates as beneficiary either the previous owner or a person related to him or her by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage, but only if the request is supported by the certified consent of the beneficiary or by proof of his or her death.

§ 315.48   Restrictions on reissue.

(a) Denominational exchange. Reissue is not permitted solely to change denominations.
Denominational exchange.
Reissue is not permitted solely to change denominations.
(b) United States Treasury. Reissue may not be made to eliminate the United States Treasury as coowner or beneficiary.
United States Treasury.
Reissue may not be made to eliminate the United States Treasury as coowner or beneficiary.

§ 315.49   Correction of errors.

A bond may be reissued to correct an error in registration upon appropriate request, supported by satisfactory proof of the error.

§ 315.50   Change of name.

An owner, coowner, or beneficiary whose name is changed by marriage, divorce, annulment, order of court, or in any other legal manner after the issue of bond should submit the bond with a request for reissue to substitute the new name for the name inscribed on the bond. Documentary evidence may be required in any appropriate case.

§ 315.51   Requests for reissue.

A request for reissue of bonds in coownership form during the lifetime of the coowners must be signed by both coowners, except that a request solely to eliminate the name of one coowner may be signed by that coowner only. A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued upon the request of the owner, supported by the certified consent of the beneficiary or by proof of his or her death. Fiscal Service forms are available for requesting reissue.

Subpart J—Certifying Officers


§ 315.55   Individuals authorized to certify.

The following individuals are authorized to act as certifying officers for the purpose of certifying a request for payment, reissue, or a signature to a Fiscal Service form:
(a) Officers generally authorized—(1) At banks, trust companies, and member organizations of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. (i) Any officer of a bank incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Officers generally authorized
—(1)
At banks, trust companies, and member organizations of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
(i) Any officer of a bank incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(ii) Any officer of a trust company incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(iii) Any officer of an organization that is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. This includes Federal savings and loan associations.
(iv) Any officer of a foreign branch or a domestic branch of an institution described in paragraphs (a) (1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(v) Any officer of a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal Land Bank, or a Federal Home Loan Bank.
(vi) Any employee of an institution described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, who is expressly authorized to certify by the institution.
Certification by these officers or designated employees must be authenticated by a legible imprint either of a corporate stamp of the institution or of the issuing or paying agent's stamp. An employee authorized to certify requests must sign his or her name over the title “Designated Employee”.
(2) At issuing agents that are not banks or trust companies. Any officer of an organization, not a bank or a trust company, that is qualified as an issuing agent for savings bonds. The agent's stamp must be imprinted in the certification.
At issuing agents that are not banks or trust companies.
Any officer of an organization, not a bank or a trust company, that is qualified as an issuing agent for savings bonds. The agent's stamp must be imprinted in the certification.
(3) By United States officials. Any judge, clerk, or deputy clerk of a United States court, including United States courts for the territories and possessions of the United States, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or any United States Commissioner or United States Attorney.
By United States officials.
Any judge, clerk, or deputy clerk of a United States court, including United States courts for the territories and possessions of the United States, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or any United States Commissioner or United States Attorney.
(b) Officers with limited authority—(1) In the Armed Forces. Any commissioned officer or warrant officer of the Armed Forces of the United States, but only for members of the respective services, their families, and civilian employees at posts, bases, or stations. The certifying officer must indicate his or her rank and state that the individual signing the request is one of the class whose request the certifying officer is authorized to certify.
Officers with limited authority
—(1)
In the Armed Forces.
Any commissioned officer or warrant officer of the Armed Forces of the United States, but only for members of the respective services, their families, and civilian employees at posts, bases, or stations. The certifying officer must indicate his or her rank and state that the individual signing the request is one of the class whose request the certifying officer is authorized to certify.
(2) At Veterans Administration facilities, Federal penal institutions, and United States Public Health Service hospitals. Any officer in charge of a home, hospital, or other facility of the Veterans Administration, but only for the patients, or employees of the facility; any officer of a Federal penal institution or a United States Public Health Service hospital expressly authorized to certify by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee, but only for the inmates, patients or employees of the institution involved. Officers of Veterans Administration facilities, Federal penal institutions, and Public Health Service hospitals must use the stamp of the particular institution or service.
At Veterans Administration facilities, Federal penal institutions, and United States Public Health Service hospitals.
Any officer in charge of a home, hospital, or other facility of the Veterans Administration, but only for the patients, or employees of the facility; any officer of a Federal penal institution or a United States Public Health Service hospital expressly authorized to certify by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee, but only for the inmates, patients or employees of the institution involved. Officers of Veterans Administration facilities, Federal penal institutions, and Public Health Service hospitals must use the stamp of the particular institution or service.
(c) Authorized officers in foreign countries. Any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate stamp or is certified to the Department of the Treasury. If none of these individuals is available, a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths may certify, but his or her official character and jurisdiction must be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his or her office.
Authorized officers in foreign countries.
Any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate stamp or is certified to the Department of the Treasury. If none of these individuals is available, a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths may certify, but his or her official character and jurisdiction must be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his or her office.
(d) Authorized officers in particular localities. The Governor and the Treasurer of Puerto Rico; the Governor and the Commissioner of Finance of the Virgin Islands; the Governor and the Director of Finance of Guam; and the Governor and the Director of Administrative Services of American Samoa; and designated officers of the Panama Canal Commission.
Authorized officers in particular localities.
The Governor and the Treasurer of Puerto Rico; the Governor and the Commissioner of Finance of the Virgin Islands; the Governor and the Director of Finance of Guam; and the Governor and the Director of Administrative Services of American Samoa; and designated officers of the Panama Canal Commission.
(e) Special provisions. If no certifying officer is readily accessible, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, Deputy Commissioner, any Assistant Commissioner, or other designated official of the Bureau or of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for any particular case.
Special provisions.
If no certifying officer is readily accessible, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, Deputy Commissioner, any Assistant Commissioner, or other designated official of the Bureau or of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for any particular case.

§ 315.56   General instructions and liability.

(a) Certification procedure. Certifying officers at financial institutions qualified as paying agents should observe the Treasury's payment instructions and identification guidelines in certifying savings bonds and savings notes being forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank for any transaction. Other certifying officers should provide certification services for persons with whom they have substantial personal acquaintance, and for other persons whose identities have been unmistakably established. A notation showing exactly how identification was established should be placed on the back of the security or Fiscal Service form, or in a separate record. As part of the certification, the certifying officer must affix his or her official signature, title and address, the exact date of execution and, where one is available, a corporate stamp or issuing or paying agent's stamp.
Certification procedure.
Certifying officers at financial institutions qualified as paying agents should observe the Treasury's payment instructions and identification guidelines in certifying savings bonds and savings notes being forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank for any transaction. Other certifying officers should provide certification services for persons with whom they have substantial personal acquaintance, and for other persons whose identities have been unmistakably established. A notation showing exactly how identification was established should be placed on the back of the security or Fiscal Service form, or in a separate record. As part of the certification, the certifying officer must affix his or her official signature, title and address, the exact date of execution and, where one is available, a corporate stamp or issuing or paying agent's stamp.
(b) Liability. The certifying officer and, if such person is an officer or an employee of an organization, the organization will be held fully responsible for the adequacy of the identification.
Liability.
The certifying officer and, if such person is an officer or an employee of an organization, the organization will be held fully responsible for the adequacy of the identification.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 315.57   When a certifying officer may not certify.

Certifying officers may not certify the requests for payment of bonds, or appropriate Fiscal Service forms if, in their own right or in a representative capacity, they
(a) Have an interest in the bonds, or
(b) Will, by virtue of the requests being certified, acquire an interest in the bonds.

§ 315.58   Forms to be certified.

When required in the instructions on a Fiscal Service form, the form must be signed before an authorized certifying officer.

Subpart K—Minors, Incompetents, Aged Persons, Absentees, et al.


§ 315.60   Conditions for payment to representative of an estate.

(a) General. The representative of an estate of an owner who is a minor, an aged person, incompetent, absentee, et al., may receive upon request—
General.
The representative of an estate of an owner who is a minor, an aged person, incompetent, absentee, et al., may receive upon request—
(1) If the registration shows the name and capacity of the representative;
(2) If the registration shows the capacity but not the name of the representative and the request is accompanied by appropriate evidence; or
(3) If the registration includes neither the name of the representative nor his or her capacity but the request is accompanied by appropriate evidence.
(b) Evidence. Appropriate evidence for paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section includes a certified copy of the letters of appointment or, if the representative is not appointed by a court, other proof of qualification. Except in thee case of corporate fiduciaries, the evidence must show that the appointment is in full force and be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment. The request for payment appearing on the back of a bond must be signed by the representative as such, for example, “John S. Jones, guardian (committee) of the estate of Henry W. Smith, a minor (an incompetent).”
Evidence.
Appropriate evidence for paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section includes a certified copy of the letters of appointment or, if the representative is not appointed by a court, other proof of qualification. Except in thee case of corporate fiduciaries, the evidence must show that the appointment is in full force and be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment. The request for payment appearing on the back of a bond must be signed by the representative as such, for example, “John S. Jones, guardian (committee) of the estate of Henry W. Smith, a minor (an incompetent).”

§ 315.61   Payment after death.

After the death of the ward, and at any time prior to the representative's discharge, the representative of the estate will be entitled to obtain payment of a bond to which the ward was solely entitled.

§ 315.62   Payment to minors.

If the owner of a savings bond is a minor and the form of registration does not indicate that there is a representative of the minor's estate, payment will be made to the minor upon his or her request, provided the minor is of sufficient competency to sign the request for payment and to understand the nature of the transaction. In general, the fact that the request for payment has been signed by a minor and certified will be accepted as sufficient proof of competency and understanding.

§ 315.63   Payment to a parent or other person on behalf of a minor.

If the owner of a savings bond is a minor and the form of registration does not indicate that there is a representative of his or her estate, and if the minor is not of sufficient competency to sign the request for payment and to understand the nature of the transaction, payment will be made to either parent with whom the minor resides or to whom legal custody has been granted. If the minor does not reside with either parent, payment will be made to the person who furnishes the chief support for the minor. The request must appear on the back of the bond in one of the following forms:
(a) Request by parent.
Request by parent.
I certify that I am the mother of John C. Jones (with whom he resides) (to whom legal custody has been granted). He is __ years of age and is not of sufficient understanding to make this request.
Mary Jones on behalf of John C. Jones.
(b) Request by other person.
Request by other person.
I certify that John C. Jones does not reside with either parent and that I furnish his chief support. He is __ years of age and is not of sufficient understanding to make this request.
Alice Brown, grandmother, on behalf of John C. Jones.

§ 315.64   Payment, reinvestment, or exchange—voluntary guardian of an incapacitated person.

(a) Payment of bonds. When an adult owner of bonds is incapable of requesting payment as a result of incapacity and there is no other person legally qualified to do so, the relative, or other person, responsible for the owner's care and support may submit an application for recognition as voluntary guardian for the purpose of redeeming the owner's bonds, if the total redemption value of all of the owner's bonds does not exceed $20,000. The redemption value of the bonds shall be determined as of the date the bonds are received, accompanied by an appropriate request for payment. If the total redemption value exceeds $20,000, a legal representative must be appointed, as set forth in § 315.60.
Payment of bonds.
When an adult owner of bonds is incapable of requesting payment as a result of incapacity and there is no other person legally qualified to do so, the relative, or other person, responsible for the owner's care and support may submit an application for recognition as voluntary guardian for the purpose of redeeming the owner's bonds, if the total redemption value of all of the owner's bonds does not exceed $20,000. The redemption value of the bonds shall be determined as of the date the bonds are received, accompanied by an appropriate request for payment. If the total redemption value exceeds $20,000, a legal representative must be appointed, as set forth in § 315.60.
(b) Reinvestment of bonds. If the bonds have finally matured and it is desired to redeem them and reinvest the proceeds in other savings bonds, the new bonds must be registered in the name of the incapacitated person, followed by words showing that he or she is under voluntary guardianship; for example, “John Jones 123-45-6789, under voluntary guardianship”. A living coowner or beneficiary named on the matured bonds must be designated on the new bonds, unless such person furnishes a certified statement consenting to omission of his or her name. If an amount insufficient to purchase an additional bond of any authorized denomination of either series remains after the reinvestment, the voluntary guardian may furnish additional funds sufficient to purchase another bond of either series of the lowest available denomination. If additional funds are not furnished, the remaining amount will be paid to the voluntary guardian for the use and benefit of the incapacitated person.
Reinvestment of bonds.
If the bonds have finally matured and it is desired to redeem them and reinvest the proceeds in other savings bonds, the new bonds must be registered in the name of the incapacitated person, followed by words showing that he or she is under voluntary guardianship; for example, “John Jones 123-45-6789, under voluntary guardianship”. A living coowner or beneficiary named on the matured bonds must be designated on the new bonds, unless such person furnishes a certified statement consenting to omission of his or her name. If an amount insufficient to purchase an additional bond of any authorized denomination of either series remains after the reinvestment, the voluntary guardian may furnish additional funds sufficient to purchase another bond of either series of the lowest available denomination. If additional funds are not furnished, the remaining amount will be paid to the voluntary guardian for the use and benefit of the incapacitated person.
(c) Exchange of bonds. The provisions for reinvestment of the proceeds of matured bonds are equally applicable to any authorized exchange of bonds of one series for those of another.
Exchange of bonds.
The provisions for reinvestment of the proceeds of matured bonds are equally applicable to any authorized exchange of bonds of one series for those of another.
[[57 FR 39602, Sept. 1, 1992]]

§ 315.65   Reissue.

A bond on which a minor or other person under legal disability is named as the owner or coowner, or in which he or she has an interest, may be reissued under the following conditions:
(a) A minor for whose estate no representative has been appointed may request reissue if the minor is of sufficient competency to sign his or her name to the request and to understand the nature of the transaction.
(b) A bond on which a minor is named as beneficiary or coowner may be reissued in the name of a custodian for the minor under a statute authorizing gifts to minors upon the request of the adult whose name appears on the bond as owner or coowner.
(c) A minor coowner for whose estate no representative has been appointed, may be named sole owner upon the request of the competent coowner.
(d) Reissue to eliminate the name of a minor or incompetent for whose estate a legal representative has been appointed is permitted only if supported by evidence that a court has authorized the representative of the minor's or incompetent's estate to request the reissue. See § 315.23.
Except to the extent provided in paragraphs (a) through (d), of this section, reissue will be restricted to a form of registration which does not adversely affect the existing ownership or interest of a minor who is not of sufficient understanding to make a request, or other person under legal disability. Requests for reissue should be executed by the person authorized to request payment under §§ 315.60 and 315.63, or the person who may request recognition as voluntary guardian under § 315.64.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980. Redesignated at 57 FR 39602, Sept. 1, 1992]]

Subpart L—Deceased Owner, Coowner or Beneficiary


§ 315.70   General rules governing entitlement.

The following rules govern ownership or entitlement where one or both of the persons named on a bond have died without the bond having been surrendered for payment or reissue:
(a) Single owner bond. If the owner of a bond registered in single ownership form has died, the bond becomes the property of that decedent's estate, and payment or reissue will be made as provided in this subpart.
Single owner bond.
If the owner of a bond registered in single ownership form has died, the bond becomes the property of that decedent's estate, and payment or reissue will be made as provided in this subpart.
(b) Coowner bond—(1) One coowner deceased. If one of the coowners named on a bond has died, the surviving coowner will be recognized as its sole and absolute owner, and payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the name of the survivor alone. Any request for reissue by the surviving coowner must be supported by proof of death of the other coowner.
Coowner bond
—(1)
One coowner deceased.
If one of the coowners named on a bond has died, the surviving coowner will be recognized as its sole and absolute owner, and payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the name of the survivor alone. Any request for reissue by the surviving coowner must be supported by proof of death of the other coowner.
(2) Both coowners deceased. If both coowners named on a bond have died, the bond becomes the property of the estate of the coowner who died last, and payment or reissue will be made as if the bond were registered in the name of the last deceased coowner alone. Proof of death of both coowners will be required to establish the order of death.
Both coowners deceased.
If both coowners named on a bond have died, the bond becomes the property of the estate of the coowner who died last, and payment or reissue will be made as if the bond were registered in the name of the last deceased coowner alone. Proof of death of both coowners will be required to establish the order of death.
(3) Simultaneous death of both coowners. If both coowners die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, which coowner died first, the bond becomes the property of both equally, and payment or reissue will be made accordingly.
Simultaneous death of both coowners.
If both coowners die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, which coowner died first, the bond becomes the property of both equally, and payment or reissue will be made accordingly.
(c) Beneficiary bond—(1) Owner deceased. If the owner of a bond registered in beneficiary form has died and is survived by the beneficiary, upon proof of death of the owner, the beneficiary will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner of the bond. Payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the survivor's name alone. A request for payment or reissue by the beneficiary must be supported by proof of death of the owner.
Beneficiary bond
—(1)
Owner deceased.
If the owner of a bond registered in beneficiary form has died and is survived by the beneficiary, upon proof of death of the owner, the beneficiary will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner of the bond. Payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the survivor's name alone. A request for payment or reissue by the beneficiary must be supported by proof of death of the owner.
(2) Beneficiary deceased. If the beneficiary's death occurs before, or simultaneous with, that of the registered owner, payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the owner's name alone. Proof of death of the owner and beneficiary is required to establish the order of death.
Beneficiary deceased.
If the beneficiary's death occurs before, or simultaneous with, that of the registered owner, payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the owner's name alone. Proof of death of the owner and beneficiary is required to establish the order of death.
(d) Nonresident aliens. If the person who becomes entitled to a bond because of the death of an owner is an alien who is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities, delivery of the redemption check will not be made so long as the restriction applies. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211).
Nonresident aliens.
If the person who becomes entitled to a bond because of the death of an owner is an alien who is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities, delivery of the redemption check will not be made so long as the restriction applies. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211).

§ 315.71   Decedent's estate.

(a) Estate is being administered. (1) A legal representative of a deceased owner's estate may request payment of savings bonds to the estate, or may distribute the savings bonds to the persons entitled.
Estate is being administered.
(1) A legal representative of a deceased owner's estate may request payment of savings bonds to the estate, or may distribute the savings bonds to the persons entitled.
(2) Appropriate proof of appointment for the legal representative of the estate is required. Letters of appointment must be dated not more than one year prior to the date of submission of the letters of appointment.
(b) Estate has been settled previously. If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment or reissue of the savings bonds. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence is required.
Estate has been settled previously.
If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment or reissue of the savings bonds. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence is required.
(c) Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile. If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under summary or small estates procedures under applicable local law may request payment or reissue of savings bonds. Appropriate evidence is required.
Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile.
If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under summary or small estates procedures under applicable local law may request payment or reissue of savings bonds. Appropriate evidence is required.
(d) When administration is required. If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
When administration is required.
If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
(e) Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered—(1) General. A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to redeem or to distribute a decedent's savings bonds. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's savings bonds and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered
—(1)
General.
A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to redeem or to distribute a decedent's savings bonds. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's savings bonds and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
(i) There has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, and no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used;
(ii) The total redemption value of the Treasury securities and held payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is $100,000 or less as of the date of death; and
(iii) There is a person eligible to serve as the voluntary representative according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) Authority of voluntary representative. A voluntary representative may:
Authority of voluntary representative.
A voluntary representative may:
(i) Redeem the decedent's savings bonds on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death;
(ii) Distribute the decedent's savings bonds to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death.
(3) Order of precedence for voluntary representative. An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
Order of precedence for voluntary representative.
An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
(4) Liability. By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or savings bonds is to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or savings bonds. Upon payment or distribution of the savings bonds at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
Liability.
By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or savings bonds is to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or savings bonds. Upon payment or distribution of the savings bonds at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
(f) Creditor. If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment for the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
Creditor.
If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment for the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
[[70 FR 57430, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 315.72   [Reserved]


Subpart M—Fiduciaries


§ 315.75   Payment or reissue during the existence of the fiduciary estate.

(a) Payment or reissue before maturity—(1) Request from the fiduciary named in the registration. A request for reissue or payment prior to maturity must be signed by all of the fiduciaries unless by statute, decree of court, or the terms of the governing instrument, any lesser number may properly execute the request. If the fiduciaries named in the registration are still acting, no further evidence will be required. In other cases, evidence to support the request will be required, as specified:
Payment or reissue before maturity
—(1)
Request from the fiduciary named in the registration.
A request for reissue or payment prior to maturity must be signed by all of the fiduciaries unless by statute, decree of court, or the terms of the governing instrument, any lesser number may properly execute the request. If the fiduciaries named in the registration are still acting, no further evidence will be required. In other cases, evidence to support the request will be required, as specified:
(i) Fiduciaries by title only. If the bond is registered only in the titles, without the names, of fiduciaries not acting as a board, satisfactory evidence of their incumbency must be furnished, except in the case of bonds registered in the title of public officers as trustees.
Fiduciaries by title only.
If the bond is registered only in the titles, without the names, of fiduciaries not acting as a board, satisfactory evidence of their incumbency must be furnished, except in the case of bonds registered in the title of public officers as trustees.
(ii) Boards, committees, commissions, etc. If a bond is registered in the name of a governing body which is empowered to act as a unit, and which holds title to the property of a religious, educational, charitable or nonprofit organization or a public corporation, the request should be signed in the name of the body by an authorized person. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
Boards, committees, commissions, etc.
If a bond is registered in the name of a governing body which is empowered to act as a unit, and which holds title to the property of a religious, educational, charitable or nonprofit organization or a public corporation, the request should be signed in the name of the body by an authorized person. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
(iii) Corporate fiduciaries. If a bond is registered in the name of a public or private corporation or a governmental body as fiduciary, the request must be signed by an authorized officer in the name of the organization as fiduciary. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
Corporate fiduciaries.
If a bond is registered in the name of a public or private corporation or a governmental body as fiduciary, the request must be signed by an authorized officer in the name of the organization as fiduciary. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
(2) Trustee of a common trust fund. A bond held by a financial institution in a fiduciary capacity may be reissued in the name of the institution as trustee of its common trust fund to the extent that participation in the common trust fund is authorized by law or regulation. The request for reissue should be executed by the institution and any cofiduciary.
Trustee of a common trust fund.
A bond held by a financial institution in a fiduciary capacity may be reissued in the name of the institution as trustee of its common trust fund to the extent that participation in the common trust fund is authorized by law or regulation. The request for reissue should be executed by the institution and any cofiduciary.
(3) Successor fiduciary. If the fiduciary in whose name the bond is registered has been replaced by another fiduciary, satisfactory evidence of successorship must be furnished.
Successor fiduciary.
If the fiduciary in whose name the bond is registered has been replaced by another fiduciary, satisfactory evidence of successorship must be furnished.
(b) Payment at or after final maturity. At or after final maturity, a request for payment signed by any one or more of the fiduciaries will be accepted. Payment will be made by check drawn as the bond is registered.
Payment at or after final maturity.
At or after final maturity, a request for payment signed by any one or more of the fiduciaries will be accepted. Payment will be made by check drawn as the bond is registered.

§ 315.76   Payment or reissue after termination of the fiduciary estate.

A bond registered in the name or title of a fiduciary may be paid or reissued to the person who has become entitled by reason of the termination of a fiduciary estate. Requests for reissue made by a fiduciary pursuant to the termination of a fiduciary estate should be made on the appropriate form. Requests for payment or reissue by other than the fiduciary must be accompanied by evidence to show that the person has become entitled in accordance with applicable State law or otherwise. When two or more persons have become entitled, the request for payment or reissue must be signed by each of them.

§ 315.77   Exchanges by fiduciaries.

Fiduciaries are authorized to request an exchange of bonds of one series for those of another, pursuant to any applicable Department of the Treasury offering. A living coowner or beneficiary named on the bonds submitted in exchange may be retained in the same capacity on the new bonds.

Subpart N—Private Organizations (Corporations, Associations, Partnerships, etc.) and Governmental Agencies, Units and Officers


§ 315.80   Payment to corporations or unincorporated associations.

A bond registered in the name of a private corporation or an unincorporated association will be paid to the corporation or unincorporated association upon a request for payment on its behalf by an authorized officer. The signature to the request should be in the form, for example, “The Jones Coal Company, a corporation, by John Jones, President”, or “The Lotus Club, an unincorporated association, by William A. Smith, Treasurer”. A request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted without further evidence of the officer's authority.

§ 315.81   Payment to partnerships.

A bond registered in the name of an existing partnership will be paid upon a request for payment signed by a general partner. The signature to the request should be in the form, for example, “Smith and Jones, a partnership, by John Jones, a general partner”. A request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted as sufficient evidence that the partnership is still in existence and that the person signing the request is authorized.

§ 315.82   Reissue or payment to successors of corporations, unincorporated associations, or partnerships.

A bond registered in the name of a private corporation, an unincorporated associations, or a partnership which has been succeeded by another corporation, unincorporated association, or partnership by operation of law or otherwise, in any manner whereby the business or activities of the original organization are continued without substantial change, will be paid to or reissued in the name of the succeeding organization upon appropriate request on its behalf, supported by satisfactory evidence of successorship. The appropriate form should be used.

§ 315.83   Reissue or payment on dissolution of corporation or partnership.

(a) Corporations. A bond registered in the name of a private corporation which is in the process of dissolution will be paid to the authorized representative of the corporation upon a request for payment, supported by satisfactory evidence of the representative's authority. At the termination of dissolution proceedings, the bond may be reissued upon the request of the authorized representative in the names of those persons, other than creditors, entitled to the assets of the corporation, to the extent of their respective interests. Proof will be required that all statutory provisions governing the dissolution of the corporation have been complied with and that the persons in whose names reissue is requested are entitled and have agreed to the reissue. If the dissolution proceedings are under the direction of a court, a certified copy of an order of the court, showing the authority of the representative to make the distribution requested must be furnished.
Corporations.
A bond registered in the name of a private corporation which is in the process of dissolution will be paid to the authorized representative of the corporation upon a request for payment, supported by satisfactory evidence of the representative's authority. At the termination of dissolution proceedings, the bond may be reissued upon the request of the authorized representative in the names of those persons, other than creditors, entitled to the assets of the corporation, to the extent of their respective interests. Proof will be required that all statutory provisions governing the dissolution of the corporation have been complied with and that the persons in whose names reissue is requested are entitled and have agreed to the reissue. If the dissolution proceedings are under the direction of a court, a certified copy of an order of the court, showing the authority of the representative to make the distribution requested must be furnished.
(b) Partnerships. A bond registered in the name of a partnership which has been dissolved by death or withdrawal of a partner, or in any other manner—
Partnerships.
A bond registered in the name of a partnership which has been dissolved by death or withdrawal of a partner, or in any other manner—
(1) Will be paid upon a request for payment by any partner or partners authorized by law to act on behalf of the dissolved partnership, or
(2) Will be paid to or reissued in the names of the persons entitled as the result of such dissolution to the extent of their respective interests, except that reissue will not be made in the names of creditors.
The request must be supported by satisfactory evidence of entitlement, including proof that the debts of the partnership have been paid or properly provided for. The appropriate form should be used.

§ 315.84   Payment to certain institutions.

A bond registered in the name of a church, hospital, home, school, or similar institution, without reference in the registration to the manner in which it is organized or governed or to the manner in which title to its property is held, will be paid upon a request for payment signed on behalf of such institution by an authorized representative. A request for payment signed by a pastor of a church, superintendent of a hospital, president of a college, or by any official generally recognized as having authority to conduct the financial affairs of the particular institution will ordinarily be accepted without further proof of authority. The signature to the request should be in the form, for example, “Shriners' Hospital for Crippled Children, St. Louis, MO, by William A. Smith, Superintendent”, or “St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, Albany, NY, by the Rev. John Smyth, Pastor”.

§ 315.85   Reissue in name of trustee or agent for reinvestment purposes.

A bond registered in the name of a religious, educational, charitable or nonprofit organization, whether or not incorporated, may be reissued in the name of a financial institution, or an individual, as trustee or agent. There must be an agreement between the organization and the trustee or agent holding funds of the organization, in whole or in part, for the purpose of investing and reinvesting the principal and paying the income to the organization. Reissue should be requested on behalf of the organization by an authorized officer using the appropriate form.

§ 315.86   Reissue upon termination of investment agency.

A bond registered in the name of a financial institution, or individual, as agent for investment purposes only, under an agreement with a religious, an educational, a charitable, or a nonprofit organization, may be reissued in the name of the organization upon termination of the agency. The former agent should request such reissue and should certify that the organization is entitled by reason of the termination of the agency. If such request and certification are not obtainable, the bond will be reissued in the name of the organization upon its own request, supported by satisfactory evidence of the termination of the agency. The appropriate form should be used.

§ 315.87   Payment to governmental agencies, units, or their officers.

(a) Agencies and units. A bond registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, or in the name of a Federal, State, or local governmental agency, such as a board, commission, or corporation, will be paid upon a request signed in the name of the governmental agency or unit by an authorized officer. A request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted without further proof of the officer's authority.
Agencies and units.
A bond registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, or in the name of a Federal, State, or local governmental agency, such as a board, commission, or corporation, will be paid upon a request signed in the name of the governmental agency or unit by an authorized officer. A request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted without further proof of the officer's authority.
(b) Officers. A bond registered in the official title of an officer of a governmental agency or unit will be paid upon a request for payment signed by the officer. The request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted as proof that the person signing is the incumbent of the office.
Officers.
A bond registered in the official title of an officer of a governmental agency or unit will be paid upon a request for payment signed by the officer. The request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted as proof that the person signing is the incumbent of the office.

Subpart O—Escheat and Unclaimed Property Claims by States


§ 315.88   Payment to a State claiming title to abandoned bonds.

(a) General. The Department of the Treasury may, in its discretion, recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a definitive savings bond that has reached the final extended maturity date and is in the State's possession, when the State presents evidence satisfactory to Treasury that the bond has been abandoned by all persons entitled to payment under Treasury regulations. A State claiming title to a definitive savings bond as the heir to a deceased owner must comply with the requirements of subpart L, and not this section. Treasury will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that has not reached its final extended maturity date. Treasury also will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that the State does not possess, or a judgment that purports to grant the State custody of a bond, but not title.
General.
The Department of the Treasury may, in its discretion, recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a definitive savings bond that has reached the final extended maturity date and is in the State's possession, when the State presents evidence satisfactory to Treasury that the bond has been abandoned by all persons entitled to payment under Treasury regulations. A State claiming title to a definitive savings bond as the heir to a deceased owner must comply with the requirements of subpart L, and not this section. Treasury will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that has not reached its final extended maturity date. Treasury also will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that the State does not possess, or a judgment that purports to grant the State custody of a bond, but not title.
(b) Due process. At a minimum, a State requesting payment under this section must demonstrate to Treasury's satisfaction that it made reasonable efforts to provide actual and constructive notice of the escheat proceeding to all persons listed on the face of the bond and all persons who may have an interest in the bond, and that those persons had an opportunity to be heard before the escheat judgment was entered.
Due process.
At a minimum, a State requesting payment under this section must demonstrate to Treasury's satisfaction that it made reasonable efforts to provide actual and constructive notice of the escheat proceeding to all persons listed on the face of the bond and all persons who may have an interest in the bond, and that those persons had an opportunity to be heard before the escheat judgment was entered.
(c) Fulfillment of obligation. Payment to a State claiming title under this section fulfills the United States' obligations to the same extent as if payment had been made to the registered owner.
Fulfillment of obligation.
Payment to a State claiming title under this section fulfills the United States' obligations to the same extent as if payment had been made to the registered owner.
[[80 FR 80264, Dec. 24, 2015]]

Subpart P—Miscellaneous Provisions

[Source:45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 80 FR 80264, Dec. 24, 2015.]
Source:
45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 80 FR 80264, Dec. 24, 2015.

§ 315.90   Waiver of regulations.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may waive or modify any provision or provisions of these regulations. He may do so in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship:
(a) If such action would not be inconsistent with law or equity, (b) if it does not impair any existing rights, and (c) if he is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 315.91   Additional requirements; bond of indemnity.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may require
(a) Such additional evidence as he may consider necessary or advisable, or
(b) A bond of indemnity, with or without surety, in any case in which he may consider such a bond necessary for the protection of the interests of the United States.

§ 315.92   Preservation of rights.

Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed to limit or restrict existing rights which holders of savings bonds previously issued may have acquired under circulars offering the bonds for sale or under the regulations in force at the time of the purchase.

§ 315.93   Supplements, amendments, or revisions.

The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, prescribe additional, supplemental, amendatory, or revised rules and regulations governing the United States Savings Bonds and Savings Notes to which this circular applies.

PART 316—OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES E

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3105 and 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3105 and 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:57 FR 14276, Apr. 17, 1992, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
57 FR 14276, Apr. 17, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

§ 316.1   Offering of bonds.

The Secretary of the Treasury offered for sale to the people of the United States, United States Savings Bonds of Series E, hereinafter generally referred to as “Series E bonds” or “bonds”.
This offer was terminated as of December 31, 1979, except that, as to bonds purchased under payroll savings plans and employee plans, the offer was terminated as of June 30, 1980.

§ 316.2   Description of bonds.

(a) General. Definitive (paper) Series E bonds bear a facsimile of the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury and of the Seal of the Department of the Treasury. They were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable.
General.
Definitive (paper) Series E bonds bear a facsimile of the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury and of the Seal of the Department of the Treasury. They were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable.
(b) Denominations and prices. Series E bonds were issued on a discount basis. The denominations and issue prices were:
Denominations and prices.
Series E bonds were issued on a discount basis. The denominations and issue prices were:
Denomination
Issue price
$25
$18.75
50
37.50
75
56.25
100
75.00
200
150.00
500
375.00
1,000
750.00
10,000
7,500.00
100,000
1
75,000.00
1
The $100,000 denomination was available only for purchase by trustees of employee savings and savings and vacation plans (see paragraph (b) of § 316.5).
(c) Inscription and issue. At the time of issue, the issuing agent:
Inscription and issue.
At the time of issue, the issuing agent:
(1) Inscribed on the face of each bond the name, social security number and address of the owner, and the name of the beneficiary, if any, or the name, social security number and address of the first-named coowner and the name of the other coowner (the inscription of the social security number was required for bonds issued on or after January 1, 1974);
(2) Entered the issue date in the upper right-hand portion of the bond; and
(3) Imprinted the agent's validation indicia in the lower right-hand portion to show the date the bond was actually inscribed. A bond was valid only if an authorized issuing agent received payment therefor and duly inscribed, dated and imprinted validation indicia on the bond.
(d) Term. A Series E bond was dated as of the first day of the month in which payment of the purchase price was received by an agent authorized to issue the bonds. This date is the issue date. The bonds mature as shown in § 316.8. The bond may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity or the end of any extended maturity period (see paragraph (a) of § 316.8). The bond may be redeemed at the owner's option at any time at fixed redemption values.
Term.
A Series E bond was dated as of the first day of the month in which payment of the purchase price was received by an agent authorized to issue the bonds. This date is the issue date. The bonds mature as shown in § 316.8. The bond may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity or the end of any extended maturity period (see paragraph (a) of § 316.8). The bond may be redeemed at the owner's option at any time at fixed redemption values.
(e) Investment yield (interest). The investment yield (interest) on Series E bonds is defined in paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 316.8. Beginning in the third month from its issue date, a bond increased in redemption value on the first day of each month, up to and including the thirtieth month from issue date, so as to provide for such period an investment yield of no less than 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually. Thereafter, its redemption value increases at the beginning of each successive half-year period. The interest is paid as part of the redemption value.
Investment yield (interest).
The investment yield (interest) on Series E bonds is defined in paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 316.8. Beginning in the third month from its issue date, a bond increased in redemption value on the first day of each month, up to and including the thirtieth month from issue date, so as to provide for such period an investment yield of no less than 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually. Thereafter, its redemption value increases at the beginning of each successive half-year period. The interest is paid as part of the redemption value.
[[57 FR 14276, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005]]

§ 316.3   Governing regulations.

(a) The regulations in 31 CFR part 315 apply to definitive Series E bonds that have not been converted to book-entry bonds.
(b) The regulations in 31 CFR part 363 apply to definitive Series E bonds that have been converted to book-entry bonds through New Treasury Direct.
[[70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005]]

§ 316.4   Registration.

Series E bonds were permitted to be registered as set forth in subpart B of 31 CFR part 315, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 530, current revision.

§ 316.5   Limitation on holdings.

(a) General limitation. The amount of Series E bonds, originally issued during any one calendar year, that could be held by any one person, computed in accordance with the governing regulations, ranged from $5,000 (face amount) to $20,000 (face amount), depending upon the issue date.
General limitation.
The amount of Series E bonds, originally issued during any one calendar year, that could be held by any one person, computed in accordance with the governing regulations, ranged from $5,000 (face amount) to $20,000 (face amount), depending upon the issue date.
(b) Special limitation for employee savings plans. A special limitation for employee savings plans was provided, which was $2,000 (face amount) multiplied by the highest number of participants in any employee savings plan, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, at any time during the year in which the bonds were issued. The plan had to be established, as set forth below.
Special limitation for employee savings plans.
A special limitation for employee savings plans was provided, which was $2,000 (face amount) multiplied by the highest number of participants in any employee savings plan, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, at any time during the year in which the bonds were issued. The plan had to be established, as set forth below.
(1) Definition of plan and conditions of eligibility. (i) The employee savings plan must have been established by the employer for the exclusive and irrevocable benefit of employees or their beneficiaries, afforded employees the means of making regular savings from their wages through payroll deduction, and provided for employer contributions to be added to such savings.
Definition of plan and conditions of eligibility.
(i) The employee savings plan must have been established by the employer for the exclusive and irrevocable benefit of employees or their beneficiaries, afforded employees the means of making regular savings from their wages through payroll deduction, and provided for employer contributions to be added to such savings.
(ii) The entire assets thereof must have been credited to the individual accounts of participating employees and the assets so credited could be distributed only to the employees or their beneficiaries, except as otherwise provided herein.
(iii) Series E bonds were to be purchased only with assets credited to the accounts of participating employees and only if the amount taken from any account at any time for that purpose was equal to the purchase price of a bond or bonds in an authorized denomination or denominations, and shares therein were credited to the accounts of the individuals from whom the purchase price thereof was derived, in amounts corresponding with such shares. For example, if $37.50 credited to the account of John Jones was commingled with funds credited to the accounts of other employees to make a total of $7,500, with which a Series E bond in the denomination of $10,000 (face amount) was purchased in December 1978 and registered in the name and title of the trustee, the plan must have provided, in effect, that John Jones' account would be credited to show that he was the owner of a Series E bond in the denomination of $50 (face amount) bearing the issue date of December 1, 1978.
(iv) Each participating employee has an irrevocable right at any time to demand and receive from the trustee all assets credited to his or her account or the value thereof, if he or she so prefers, without regard to any condition other than the loss or suspension of the privilege of participating further in the plan. However, a plan was not deemed to be inconsistent herewith if it limited or modified the exercise of any such right by providing that the employer's contribution did not vest absolutely until the employee had made contributions under the plan in each of not more than 60 calendar months succeeding the month for which the employer's contribution was made.
(v) Upon the death of an employee, his or her beneficiary has the absolute and unconditional right to demand and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the account of the employee, or the value thereof, if he or she so prefers.
(vi) When settlement is made with an employee, or his or her beneficiary, with respect to any bond registered in the name and title of the trustee in which the employee has a share (see paragraphs (b)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section), the bond must be submitted for redemption or reissue to the extent of such share. If an employee or his or her beneficiary is to receive distribution in kind, bonds bearing the same issue dates as those credited to the employee's account will be reissued in the name of the distributee to the extent to which he or she is entitled, in any authorized form of registration, upon the request and certification of the trustee, in accordance with the governing reguations.
(2) Definitions of terms used in paragraph (b)—related provisions. (i) The term savings plan includes any regulations issued under the plan with regard to Series E bonds. A trustee desiring to purchase bonds in excess of the general limitation in any calendar year should have submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of the district a copy of the plan, any such regulations, and the trust agreement, all certified to be true copies, in order to establish eligibility.
Definitions of terms used in paragraph (b)—related provisions.
(i) The term
savings plan
includes any regulations issued under the plan with regard to Series E bonds. A trustee desiring to purchase bonds in excess of the general limitation in any calendar year should have submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of the district a copy of the plan, any such regulations, and the trust agreement, all certified to be true copies, in order to establish eligibility.
(ii) The term assets means all funds, including the employee contributions and employer contributions and assets purchased therewith, as well as accretions thereto, such as dividends on stock, the increment in value on bonds and all other income; but, notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, the right to demand and receive all assets credited to the account of an employee shall not be construed to require the distribution of assets in kind when it would not be possible or practicable to make such distribution; for example, Series E bonds may not be reissued in unauthorized denominations, and fractional shares of stock are not readily distributable in kind.
assets
means all funds, including the employee contributions and employer contributions and assets purchased therewith, as well as accretions thereto, such as dividends on stock, the increment in value on bonds and all other income; but, notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, the right to demand and receive all assets credited to the account of an employee shall not be construed to require the distribution of assets in kind when it would not be possible or practicable to make such distribution; for example, Series E bonds may not be reissued in unauthorized denominations, and fractional shares of stock are not readily distributable in kind.
(iii) The term beneficiary means the person or persons, if any, designated by the employee in accordance with the terms of the plan to receive the benefits of the trust upon his or her death, or the estate of the employee, and the term distributee means the employee, or his or her beneficiary.
beneficiary
means the person or persons, if any, designated by the employee in accordance with the terms of the plan to receive the benefits of the trust upon his or her death, or the estate of the employee, and the term
distributee
means the employee, or his or her beneficiary.

§ 316.6   Purchase of bonds.

Series E bonds were purchased, as follows:
(a) Over-the-counter for cash—(1) Bonds registered in names of natural persons in their own right only. At such incorporated banks, trust companies, and other agencies as had been duly qualified as issuing agents.
Over-the-counter for cash
—(1)
Bonds registered in names of natural persons in their own right only.
At such incorporated banks, trust companies, and other agencies as had been duly qualified as issuing agents.
(2) Bonds registered in names of trustees of employee savings plans. At such incorporated bank, trust company, or other agency, duly qualified as an issuing agent, provided the agent was trustee of an approved employee savings plan eligible for the special limitation in paragraph (b) of § 316.5 and prior approval to issue the bonds was obtained from the Federal Reserve Bank of the agent's district.
Bonds registered in names of trustees of employee savings plans.
At such incorporated bank, trust company, or other agency, duly qualified as an issuing agent, provided the agent was trustee of an approved employee savings plan eligible for the special limitation in paragraph (b) of § 316.5 and prior approval to issue the bonds was obtained from the Federal Reserve Bank of the agent's district.
(3) Bonds registered in all authorized forms. At Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and at the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20226.
Bonds registered in all authorized forms.
At Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and at the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20226.
(b) On mail order. By mail upon application to any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Department of the Treasury, accompanied by a remittance to cover the issue price. Any form of exchange, including personal checks, was accepted, subject to collection. Checks or other forms of exchange were to be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank or the United States Treasury, as the case may be. Checks payable by endorsement were not acceptable. Any depositary qualified pursuant to the provisions of 31 CFR part 203, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 92, current revision, was permitted to make payment by credit for bonds applied for on behalf of its customers up to any amount for which it was qualified in excess of existing deposits, when so notified by the Federal Reserve Bank of its district.
On mail order.
By mail upon application to any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Department of the Treasury, accompanied by a remittance to cover the issue price. Any form of exchange, including personal checks, was accepted, subject to collection. Checks or other forms of exchange were to be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank or the United States Treasury, as the case may be. Checks payable by endorsement were not acceptable. Any depositary qualified pursuant to the provisions of 31 CFR part 203, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 92, current revision, was permitted to make payment by credit for bonds applied for on behalf of its customers up to any amount for which it was qualified in excess of existing deposits, when so notified by the Federal Reserve Bank of its district.
(c) Savings stamps. The sale of United States Savings Stamps was terminated effective June 30, 1970. However, outstanding stamps affixed in fully or partially completed albums could be used to purchase Series E bonds at banks or other financial institutions authorized to issue such bonds. Stamps may be redeemed at banks and other financial institutions, through designated Federal Reserve Banks and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia.
Savings stamps.
The sale of United States Savings Stamps was terminated effective June 30, 1970. However, outstanding stamps affixed in fully or partially completed albums could be used to purchase Series E bonds at banks or other financial institutions authorized to issue such bonds. Stamps may be redeemed at banks and other financial institutions, through designated Federal Reserve Banks and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia.
[[57 FR 14276, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 316.7   Delivery of bonds.

Issuing agents were authorized to deliver Series E bonds either over-the-counter in person, or by mail at the risk and expense of the United States, to the address given by the purchaser, but only within the United States, its territories and possessions, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. No mail deliveries elsewhere were made. If purchased by citizens of the United States temporarily residing abroad, the bonds were delivered to such address in the United States as the purchaser directed.

§ 316.8   Extended terms and yields for outstanding bonds.

(a) General. The terms extended maturity period, second extended maturity period, third extended maturity period and fourth extended maturity period, when used herein, refer to periods of 10 years or less after the original maturity dates during which owners may retain their bonds and continue to earn interest. No special action is required to take advantage of any extensions heretofore or herein granted. Series E bonds cease to accrue interest upon reaching final maturity.
General.
The terms
extended maturity period, second extended maturity period, third extended maturity period
and
fourth extended maturity period,
when used herein, refer to periods of 10 years or less after the original maturity dates during which owners may retain their bonds and continue to earn interest. No special action is required to take advantage of any extensions heretofore or herein granted. Series E bonds cease to accrue interest upon reaching final maturity.
(b) Extended maturity periods—(1) Bonds issued from May 1, 1941 through April 1, 1952. Series E bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1941, through April 1, 1952, reached or will reach final maturity 40 years after their respective issue dates, as shown below.
Extended maturity periods
—(1)
Bonds issued from May 1, 1941 through April 1, 1952.
Series E bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1941, through April 1, 1952, reached or will reach final maturity 40 years after their respective issue dates, as shown below.
Issue dates—1st day of
Life of bonds yrs.
Final maturity dates—1st day of
May 1941-Apr. 1952
40
May 1981-Apr. 1992.
(2) Bonds issued from May 1, 1952 through November 1, 1965. Bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1952, through November 1, 1965, will receive an additional extension of maturity ranging from 4 months to 2 years and 3 months, as shown below, so that these bonds will reach final maturity 40 years after their respective issue dates.
Bonds issued from May 1, 1952 through November 1, 1965.
Bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1952, through November 1, 1965, will receive an additional extension of maturity ranging from 4 months to 2 years and 3 months, as shown below, so that these bonds will reach final maturity 40 years after their respective issue dates.
Issue dates—lst day of
Previous maturities
Previous maturity dates—1st day of
yrs.
mos.
May 1952-Jan. 1957
39
8
Jan. 1992-Sept. 1996.
Feb. 1957-May 1959
38
11
Jan. 1996-Apr. 1998.
Jun. 1959-Nov. 1965
37
9
Mar. 1997-Aug. 2003.
Issue dates—1st day of
Additional extended maturity period
Life of bonds—yrs.
yrs.
mos.
May 1952-Jan. 1957
4
40
Feb. 1957-May 1959
1
1
40
Jun. 1959-Nov. 1965
2
3
40.
Issue dates—1st day of
Final maturity dates—1st day of
May 1952-Jan. 1957
May 1992-Jan. 1997.
Feb. 1957-May 1959
Feb. 1997-May 1999.
Jun. 1959-Nov. 1965
June. 1999-Nov. 2005.
(3) Bonds issued from December 1, 1965 through June 1, 1980. Bonds with issue dates of December 1, 1965, through June 1, 1980, will receive an additional extension of maturity ranging from 3 years to 5 years, as shown below, so that these bonds will reach final maturity 30 years after their respective issue dates.
Bonds issued from December 1, 1965 through June 1, 1980.
Bonds with issue dates of December 1, 1965, through June 1, 1980, will receive an additional extension of maturity ranging from 3 years to 5 years, as shown below, so that these bonds will reach final maturity 30 years after their respective issue dates.
Issue dates—1st day of
Previous maturities
Previous maturity dates—1st day of
yrs.
mos.
Dec. 1965-May 1969
27
Dec. 1992-May 1996.
June. 1969-Nov. 1973
25
10
Apr. 1995-Sept. 1999.
Dec. 1973-Jun. 1980
25
Dec. 1998-Jun. 2005.
Issue dates—1st day of
Additional extended maturity period
Life of bonds—yrs.
yrs.
mos.
Dec. 1965-May 1969
3
30
Jun. 1969-Nov. 1973
4
2
30
Dec. 1973-Jun. 1980
5
30
Issue dates—1st day of
Final maturity dates—1st day of
Dec. 1965-May 1969
Dec. 1995-May 1999.
Jun. 1969-Nov. 1973
Jun. 1999-Nov. 2003.
Dec. 1973-Jun. 1980
Dec. 2003-Jun. 2010.
(c) Guaranteed minimum investment yield—(1) General. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the guaranteed minimum investment yields for outstanding Series E bonds are as follows:
Guaranteed minimum investment yield
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the guaranteed minimum investment yields for outstanding Series E bonds are as follows:
(i) For Series E bonds that were in original or extended maturity periods prior to November 1, 1982, the guaranteed minimum investment yield was 8.5 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, effective for the period from the first semiannual interest accrual date on or after May 1, 1981, through the end of such periods, unless the bonds reached final maturity before November 1, 1981. 
3
 For bonds that entered extensions, see paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
3
For bonds that entered extensions, see paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
3 Series E bonds issued from May 1, 1941, through October 1, 1941, had reached final maturity May 1, 1981, through October 1, 1981, before the 8.5 percent yield had become effective.
3
Series E bonds issued from May 1, 1941, through October 1, 1941, had reached final maturity May 1, 1981, through October 1, 1981, before the 8.5 percent yield had become effective.
4 5 [Reserved]
4 5
[Reserved]
(ii) For Series E bonds that entered extended maturity periods during the period of November 1, 1982, through October 1, 1986, the guaranteed minimum yield was or is 7.5 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, for such periods, including bonds that entered into an extended maturity period, as shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
Entered on 1st day of—
Mar. 1953-Nov. 1957
3rd
Nov. 1982-Oct. 1986.
Feb. 1965-Dec. 1970
2nd
Nov. 1982-Oct. 1986.
Nov. 1977-June 1980
1st
Nov. 1982-June 1985.
(iii) For Series E bonds that entered into extended maturity periods during the period of November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993, the guaranteed minimum yield was or is 6 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, for such periods, including bonds that entered into an extended maturity period, as shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
4
Entered on 1st day of—
May 1952-Aug. 1953
4th (final)
5
Jan. 1992-Apr. 1993.
Dec. 1957-May 1965
3rd
Nov. 1986-Feb. 1993.
Dec. 1965-Feb. 1966
3rd (final)
Dec. 1992-Feb. 1993.
Jan. 1971-Feb. 1978
2nd
Nov. 1986-Feb. 1993.
4
Interest for interest accrual periods of less than 6 months is prorated.
5
All Series E bonds issued between May 1, 1941 and April 1, 1953, have matured and are no longer earning interest.
(iv) For Series E bonds entering extended maturity periods on or after March 1, 1993, the guaranteed minimum yield is 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, or the guaranteed minimum investment yield in effect at the beginning of the period, including bonds that enter extended maturity periods, as shown below: 
6
6
6 Series E bonds with issue dates of July 1 and August 1, 1953, entered a final maturity period of 4 months on March 1, and April 1, 1993, respectively, and received a minimum investment yield of 6 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, for that period.
6
Series E bonds with issue dates of July 1 and August 1, 1953, entered a final maturity period of 4 months on March 1, and April 1, 1993, respectively, and received a minimum investment yield of 6 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, for that period.
7 [Reserved]
7
[Reserved]
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
7
Entered on 1st day of—
Sep. 1953-May 1965
4th (final)
May 1993-Feb. 2003.
Jun. 1965-Nov. 1965
3rd
Mar. 1993-Aug. 1993.
Jun. 1965-Nov. 1965
4th (final)
Mar. 2003-Aug. 2003.
Mar. 1966-Feb. 1978
3rd (final)
Mar. 1993-Feb. 2003.
Mar. 1978-Jun. 1980
2nd
Mar. 1993-Jun. 1995
Mar. 1978-Jun. 1980
3rd (final)
Mar. 2003-Jun. 2005.
7
See footnote 2 above.
(2) Eleven-year bonus. If a bond bearing an issue date of January 1, 1951, or thereafter, was held for the 11-year period from the first semianual interest accrual period that began on or after January 1, 1980, its guaranteed minimum investment yield for such period was increased by one-half of one percent per annum, compounded semiannually.
Eleven-year bonus.
If a bond bearing an issue date of January 1, 1951, or thereafter, was held for the 11-year period from the first semianual interest accrual period that began on or after January 1, 1980, its guaranteed minimum investment yield for such period was increased by one-half of one percent per annum, compounded semiannually.
(d) Market-based variable investment yield. In order to be eligible for the market-based variable investment yield, Series E savings bonds had to be held at least five years beginning with the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982. The market-based variable investment yield shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury as follows:
Market-based variable investment yield.
In order to be eligible for the market-based variable investment yield, Series E savings bonds had to be held at least five years beginning with the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982. The market-based variable investment yield shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury as follows:
(1) For each 6-month period, starting with the period beginning May 1, 1982, the average market yield on outstanding marketable Treasury securities with a remaining term to maturity of approximately 5 years during such period is determined. Such determination by the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegate shall be final and conclusive.
(2) For bonds which entered an extended maturity period prior to May 1, 1989, the market-based variable investment yield from the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1987, will be 85 percent, rounded to the nearest one-fourth of one percent, of the arithmetic average of the market yield averages, as determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, for the appropriate number of 6-month periods involved, starting with the period beginning May 1, 1982.
(3) For bonds which entered an extended maturity period on or after May 1, 1989, the market-based variable investment yield from the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1989, will be 85 pecent, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent, of the arithmetic average of the market yield averages, as determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, for the appropriate number of 6-month periods involved, starting with the period beginning May 1, 1982.
(e) Determination of redemption values during any extended maturity period. The redemption value of a bond on a given interest accrual date during any extended maturity period will be the higher of the value produced by using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield or the value produced by using the appropriate market-based variable investment yield. The calculation of these values is described below:
Determination of redemption values during any extended maturity period.
The redemption value of a bond on a given interest accrual date during any extended maturity period will be the higher of the value produced by using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield or the value produced by using the appropriate market-based variable investment yield. The calculation of these values is described below:
(1) Guaranteed minimum investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period. A bond has a guaranteed minimum investment yield for each of its extended maturity periods. The applicable guaranteed minimum investment yields for the current extended maturity period and any subsequent periods are specified in paragraph (c) of this section. In order to determine the value of a bond during an extended maturity period, the value of the bond either at the end of the next preceding maturity period or when the guaranteed minimum investment yield last increased, 
8
 whichever occurs later, is determined using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield. This value is then used as the base upon which interest accrues during the extended maturity period at the guaranteed minimum investment yield in effect for savings bonds at the beginning of that period. The resulting semiannual values are then compared with the corresponding values determined by using the applicable market-based variable investment yields.
Guaranteed minimum investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period.
A bond has a guaranteed minimum investment yield for each of its extended maturity periods. The applicable guaranteed minimum investment yields for the current extended maturity period and any subsequent periods are specified in paragraph (c) of this section. In order to determine the value of a bond during an extended maturity period, the value of the bond either at the end of the next preceding maturity period or when the guaranteed minimum investment yield last increased,
8
whichever occurs later, is determined using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield. This value is then used as the base upon which interest accrues during the extended maturity period at the guaranteed minimum investment yield in effect for savings bonds at the beginning of that period. The resulting semiannual values are then compared with the corresponding values determined by using the applicable market-based variable investment yields.
8 The 11-year bonus was the last increase in the guaranteed minimum investment yield (see paragraph (b)(2)). Series E bonds which were eligible to receive this bonus received it on the first semiannual interest accrual date occuring on or after January 1, 1991.
8
The 11-year bonus was the last increase in the guaranteed minimum investment yield (see paragraph (b)(2)). Series E bonds which were eligible to receive this bonus received it on the first semiannual interest accrual date occuring on or after January 1, 1991.
(2) Market-based variable investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period. The market-based variable investment yield from the first semiannual interest accrual date occuring on or after November 1, 1982 to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1987, is determined as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The value of a bond on its first seimannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 is used as the base upon which interest accrues during an extended maturity period at the applicable market-based variable investment yield. If redeemed, the bond will receive the higher of the two values produced by using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield and the applicable market-based variable investment yield.
Market-based variable investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period.
The market-based variable investment yield from the first semiannual interest accrual date occuring on or after November 1, 1982 to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1987, is determined as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The value of a bond on its first seimannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 is used as the base upon which interest accrues during an extended maturity period at the applicable market-based variable investment yield. If redeemed, the bond will receive the higher of the two values produced by using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield and the applicable market-based variable investment yield.
(f) Market-based variable investment yields and tables of redemption values. The market-based variable investment yields for bonds redeemed during each 6-month period, beginning on May 1 and November 1 of each year, are made available prior to each of those dates by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328, accompanied by tables of the redemption values of bonds for the following 6 months, based on either the applicable market-based variable investment yields or guaranteed minimum investment yields.
Market-based variable investment yields and tables of redemption values.
The market-based variable investment yields for bonds redeemed during each 6-month period, beginning on May 1 and November 1 of each year, are made available prior to each of those dates by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328, accompanied by tables of the redemption values of bonds for the following 6 months, based on either the applicable market-based variable investment yields or guaranteed minimum investment yields.
[[57 FR 14276, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 60936, 60937, Nov. 18, 1993]]

§ 316.9   Taxation.

(a) General. For the purpose of determining taxes and tax exemptions, the increment in value represented by the difference between the price paid for Series E bonds and the redemption value received therefor constitutes interest. Such interest is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The bonds are subject to estate, inheritance, gift, or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all other taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, or any of the possessions of the United States, or by any local taxing authority.
General.
For the purpose of determining taxes and tax exemptions, the increment in value represented by the difference between the price paid for Series E bonds and the redemption value received therefor constitutes interest. Such interest is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The bonds are subject to estate, inheritance, gift, or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all other taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, or any of the possessions of the United States, or by any local taxing authority.
(b) Federal income tax on bonds. An owner of Series E bonds who is a cash-basis taxpayer may use either of the following two methods of reporting the increase in the redemption value of the bonds for Federal income tax purposes:
Federal income tax on bonds.
An owner of Series E bonds who is a cash-basis taxpayer may use either of the following two methods of reporting the increase in the redemption value of the bonds for Federal income tax purposes:
(1) Defer reporting the increase to the year of final maturity, actual redemption, or other disposition, whichever is earlier; or
(2) Elect to report the increases each year as they accrue, in which case the election applies to all Series E bonds then owned and those subsequently acquired, as well as to any other similar obligations purchased on a discount basis. If the method in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is used, the taxpayer may change to the method in paragraph (b)(2) of this section without obtaining permission from the Internal Revenue Service. However, once the election to use the method in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is made, the taxpayer may not change the method of reporting without permission from the Internal Revenue Service. For further information on Federal income taxes, the Service Center Director, or District Director, Internal Revenue Service, of the taxpayer's district may be contacted.

§ 316.10   Payment or redemption.

(a) General. A Series E bond may be redeemed in accordance with its terms at the appropriate redemption value shown in the applicable table described in paragraph (f) of § 316.8. The redemption values of bonds in the denomination of $100,000 are not shown in the tables. However, the redemption value of a bond in that denomination will be equal to ten times the redemption value of a $10,000 bond of the same issue date. A bond in a denomination higher that $25 (face amount) may be redeemed in part but only in the amount of an authorized denomination or multiple thereof.
General.
A Series E bond may be redeemed in accordance with its terms at the appropriate redemption value shown in the applicable table described in paragraph (f) of § 316.8. The redemption values of bonds in the denomination of $100,000 are not shown in the tables. However, the redemption value of a bond in that denomination will be equal to ten times the redemption value of a $10,000 bond of the same issue date. A bond in a denomination higher that $25 (face amount) may be redeemed in part but only in the amount of an authorized denomination or multiple thereof.
(b) Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and United States Treasury. Owners of Series E bonds may obtain payment upon presentation and surrender of the bonds to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch referred to in § 316.12 or to the Department of the Treasury with the request for payment on the bonds duly executed and certified in accordance with the governing regulations.
Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and United States Treasury.
Owners of Series E bonds may obtain payment upon presentation and surrender of the bonds to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch referred to in § 316.12 or to the Department of the Treasury with the request for payment on the bonds duly executed and certified in accordance with the governing regulations.
(c) Incorporated banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. (1) A financial institution qualified as a paying agent under the provisions of 31 CFR part 321, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 750, as revised, will pay the current redemption value of a Series E bond presented for payment by an individual whose name is inscribed on the bond as owner or coowner, provided:
Incorporated banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions.
(1) A financial institution qualified as a paying agent under the provisions of 31 CFR part 321, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 750, as revised, will pay the current redemption value of a Series E bond presented for payment by an individual whose name is inscribed on the bond as owner or coowner, provided:
(i) The bond is in order for payment; and
(ii) The presenter establishes his or her identity to the satisfaction of the agent, in accordance with Treasury instructions and identification guidelines, and signs and completes the requests for payment.
(2) A paying agent may (but is not required to) pay a Series E bond, at current redemption value, upon the request of a legal representative designated in the bond's registration by name and capacity, a court-appointed legal representative of the last-deceased registrant's estate, or a beneficiary, if he or she survives the owner, provided:
(i) The bond is in order for payment; and
(ii) The presenter establishes his or her identity to the satisfaction of the agent, in accordance with Treasury instructions, indentification guidelines, and otherwise complies with evidentiary requirements.
[[57 FR 14276, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 316.11   Reservation as to issue of bonds.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserved the right to reject any application for purchase of Series E bonds, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue, or permit to be issued hereunder, any such bonds in any case or any class or classes of cases if such action was deemed to be in the public interest. Any action in any such respect was final.

§ 316.12   Fiscal agents.

(a) Federal Reserve Banks and Branches referred to below, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the redemption and payment of Series E bonds.
(b)(1) The following Federal Reserve Offices have been designated to provide savings bond services:
Servicing office
Reserve districts served
Geographic area served
Federal Reserve Bank, Buffalo Branch, P.O. Box 961, Buffalo, NY 14240
New York, Boston
CT, MA, ME, NH, NJ (northern half), NY (City & State), RI, VT, Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands.
Federal Reserve Bank, Pittsburgh Branch, P.O. Box 867, Pittsburgh, PA 15230
Cleveland, Philadelphia
DE, KY (eastern half), NJ (southern half), OH, PA, WV (northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, P.O. Box 27622, Richmond, VA 23261
Richmond, Atlanta
AL, DC, FL, LA (southern half), MD, MS (southern half), NC, SC, TN (eastern half), VA, WV (except northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 250 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55480
Minneapolis, Chicago
IA, IL (northern half), IN (northern half), MN, MT, ND, SD, WI.
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 925 Grand Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64198
Dallas, San Francisco, Kansas City, St. Louis
AK, AR, AZ, CA, CO, HI, ID, IL (southern half), IN (southern half), KS, KY (western half), LA (northern half), MO, MS (northern half), NE, NM, NV, OK, OR, TN (western half), TX, WA, WY, UT and GU.
(2) Until March 1, 1996, other Federal Reserve Offices may continue to provide some savings bond services, such services will be phased out over the period prior to that date.
[[59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 316.13   Reservation as to terms of offer.

The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this offering of bonds, or of any amendments or supplements thereto.

PART 317 [RESERVED]


PART 321—PAYMENTS BY BANKS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS OF DEFINITIVE UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS AND UNITED STATES SAVINGS NOTES (FREEDOM SHARES)

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321; 31 U.S.C. 3105, 3126.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321; 31 U.S.C. 3105, 3126.
[Source:53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 321.0   Purpose.

These regulations govern the manner in which financial institutions may qualify and act as paying agents for the redemption of:
(a) Definitive United States Savings Bonds of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, and I, and United States Savings Notes (Freedom Shares), presented for cash payment; and
(b) Eligible definitive Series E and Series EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for redemption in exchange for Series HH savings bonds under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-80 (31 CFR part 352).
[[77 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.1   Definitions.

ACH payment or ACH means an Automated Clearing House method of transferring funds under the provisions of 31 CFR part 210.
ACH payment
or
ACH
means an Automated Clearing House method of transferring funds under the provisions of 31 CFR part 210.
Beneficiary means an individual whose name is inscribed on a security as the person to whom it is payable in his or her right upon the prior death of the other individual designated thereon as owner, shown commonly in the form: “A P.O.D. [payable on death to] B.”
Beneficiary
means an individual whose name is inscribed on a security as the person to whom it is payable in his or her right upon the prior death of the other individual designated thereon as owner, shown commonly in the form: “A P.O.D. [payable on death to] B.”
Cash payment means payment in currency, by check or by credit to a checking, savings or share account.
Cash payment
means payment in currency, by check or by credit to a checking, savings or share account.
Definitive security means a Treasury security held in paper form.
Definitive security
means a Treasury security held in paper form.
Federal Reserve Operating Circular means the operating circular referred to in § 321.27, issued by the Federal Reserve Banks, that provides instructions on the requirements for submitting definitive redeemed securities to a Federal Reserve Processing Site and sets forth the rights and obligations of paying agents with respect to such securities.
Federal Reserve Operating Circular
means the operating circular referred to in § 321.27, issued by the Federal Reserve Banks, that provides instructions on the requirements for submitting definitive redeemed securities to a Federal Reserve Processing Site and sets forth the rights and obligations of paying agents with respect to such securities.
Federal Reserve Processing Site means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in § 321.26 to which the paying agent, or institution acting on its behalf, is instructed to transmit redeemed securities for payment pursuant to the Federal Reserve Operating Circular.
Federal Reserve Processing Site
means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in § 321.26 to which the paying agent, or institution acting on its behalf, is instructed to transmit redeemed securities for payment pursuant to the Federal Reserve Operating Circular.
Federal Reserve Treasury Retail Securities Site or TRS Site means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in § 321.26 that is authorized to qualify paying agents and provide other fiscal agency services consistent with this part.
Federal Reserve Treasury Retail Securities Site
or
TRS Site
means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in § 321.26 that is authorized to qualify paying agents and provide other fiscal agency services consistent with this part.
Legal Representative or representative means the court-appointed (or otherwise qualified) person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al., the court-appointed executor or administrator, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for a decedent's estate; and the trustee of a personal trust estate.
Legal Representative
or
representative
means the court-appointed (or otherwise qualified) person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al., the court-appointed executor or administrator, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for a decedent's estate; and the trustee of a personal trust estate.
Paying agent or agent means:
Paying agent
or
agent
means:
(1) A financial institution that is qualified under the provisions of this part as originally issued, or any subsequent revision, to make payment of securities, and includes branches located within the United States, its territories and possessions, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
(2) Any banking facilities of such institutions establishing at military installations overseas, provided the offering of such redemption services has been authorized by the Department of the Treasury.
Presenter means the individual requesting the redemption or redemption-exchange of securities.
Presenter
means the individual requesting the redemption or redemption-exchange of securities.
Redemption and payment are used interchangeably for payment of a security in accordance with the terms of its offering and governing regulations, including redemption-exchange.
Redemption
and
payment
are used interchangeably for payment of a security in accordance with the terms of its offering and governing regulations, including redemption-exchange.
Redemption-exchange means the authorized redemption of eligible securities for the purpose of applying the proceeds in payment for other securities offered in exchange by the Treasury.
Redemption-exchange
means the authorized redemption of eligible securities for the purpose of applying the proceeds in payment for other securities offered in exchange by the Treasury.
Registrant means a person whose name is inscribed on a security as owner, coowner, or beneficiary.
Registrant
means a person whose name is inscribed on a security as owner, coowner, or beneficiary.
Security means a United States Savings Bond of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, or I and/or a United States Savings Note (Freedom Share).
Security
means a United States Savings Bond of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, or I and/or a United States Savings Note (Freedom Share).
Taxpayer identifying number means a social security account number or an employer identification number.
Taxpayer identifying number
means a social security account number or an employer identification number.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988; 53 FR 39581, Oct. 7, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35395, Aug. 29, 1990; 59 FR 10536, Mar. 4, 1994; 63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998; 76 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]]

Subpart B—Procedures for Qualification


§ 321.2   Eligible organizations.

(a) Organizations eligible to apply for qualification and to serve as paying agents are commercial banks, trust companies, savings banks, savings and loan associations, building and loan associations (including cooperative banks), credit unions, cash depositories, industrial banks, or similar financial institutions which:
(1) Are incorporated under Federal law or the laws of a State, territory or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(2) In the usual course of business accept, subject to withdrawal, funds for desposit or the purchase of shares;
(3) Are under the supervision of a federal or state regulatory agency or equivalent authority; and
(4) Maintain regular offices for the transaction of business.
(b) An organization that desires to redeem securities must first qualify as a paying agent. An organization that has qualified and is serving as a paying agent must:
(1) Submit redeemed securities directly to a Federal Reserve Processing Site in accordance with the Federal Reserve Operating Circular; and
(2) Have the ability to receive payment of applicable fees by ACH, or arrange to obtain one or more of these services from another financial institution.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 10536, Mar. 4, 1994; 77 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.3   Procedure for qualifying and serving as paying agent.

(a) Execution of application-agreement. (1) An eligible organization wishing to act as a paying agent shall obtain from, execute, and file an application-agreement with a TRS Site. The terms of each application-agreement shall include a reference to the following provisions to which paying agents are subject:
Execution of application-agreement.
(1) An eligible organization wishing to act as a paying agent shall obtain from, execute, and file an application-agreement with a TRS Site. The terms of each application-agreement shall include a reference to the following provisions to which paying agents are subject:
(i) The provisions prescribed by section 202 of Executive Order 11246, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity”, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2000e note); and
(ii) The provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a), and regulations issued pursuant thereto (31 CFR part 1, subpart C).
(2) For the purpose of these regulations, all eligible institutions shall make application to a TRS Site.
(b) Qualification. A TRS Site, as fiscal agent of the United States, is authorized to qualify any eligible organization that possesses adequate authority under its charter to act as paying agent. Upon approval of an application-agreement, a TRS Site will issue a certificate of qualification to the organization. Such a certificate automatically qualifies the branches of the organization to redeem securities as provided in this part.
Qualification.
A TRS Site, as fiscal agent of the United States, is authorized to qualify any eligible organization that possesses adequate authority under its charter to act as paying agent. Upon approval of an application-agreement, a TRS Site will issue a certificate of qualification to the organization. Such a certificate automatically qualifies the branches of the organization to redeem securities as provided in this part.
(c) Announcement of authority. Upon receipt of a certificate of qualification from a TRS Site, a financial institution may announce or advertise its authority to redeem eligible securities for cash and to process eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for redemption in exchange for Series HH savings bonds under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-80 (31 CFR part 352).
Announcement of authority.
Upon receipt of a certificate of qualification from a TRS Site, a financial institution may announce or advertise its authority to redeem eligible securities for cash and to process eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for redemption in exchange for Series HH savings bonds under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-80 (31 CFR part 352).
(d) Adverse action. A TRS Site will notify an organization in writing if its application-agreement to act as paying agent is not approved.
Adverse action.
A TRS Site will notify an organization in writing if its application-agreement to act as paying agent is not approved.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35395, Aug. 29, 1990; 59 FR 10537, Mar. 4, 1994; 63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998; 77 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.4   Paying agents previously qualified.

Institutions qualified as paying agents under previous revisions of this part are authorized to continue to act in that capacity without requalification. By so acting, they shall be subject to the terms and conditions of their previously executed application-agreements and these regulations in the same manner and to the same extent as though they had requalified hereunder.

§ 321.5   Termination of qualification.

(a) By the Treasury. The Secretary of the Treasury, or a designee, may authorize a TRS Site to terminate the qualification of any paying agent at any time, following prior written notice of such action to the agent.
By the Treasury.
The Secretary of the Treasury, or a designee, may authorize a TRS Site to terminate the qualification of any paying agent at any time, following prior written notice of such action to the agent.
(b) At request of paying agent. A TRS Site will terminate the qualification of a paying agent upon its written request, provided the agent renders a final accounting for all redeemed securities and is found to have fully complied with the terms of its agreement and the applicable regulations and instructions.
At request of paying agent.
A TRS Site will terminate the qualification of a paying agent upon its written request, provided the agent renders a final accounting for all redeemed securities and is found to have fully complied with the terms of its agreement and the applicable regulations and instructions.
(c) Reservation. Termination of the qualification as paying agent of any institution shall not prejudice the right of the Treasury to recover the amounts of any erroneous payment(s) made by the institution.
Reservation.
Termination of the qualification as paying agent of any institution shall not prejudice the right of the Treasury to recover the amounts of any erroneous payment(s) made by the institution.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 10537, Mar. 4, 1994; 77 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]]

Subpart C—Scope of Authority


§ 321.6   General.

Securities are issued only in registered form (subject to 31 CFR 359.11), are not transferable, may not be hypothecated or used as collateral for a loan, and, except as otherwise specifically provided in the governing regulations and this part, are payable to the owner or coowner named on the security. The regulations governing Series EE and HH bonds are contained in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80, current revision (31 CFR part 353); those governing Series I bonds are contained in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-98 (31 CFR part 360); and, those governing all other series of U.S. savings securities are contained in Department of the Treasury Circular No. 530, current revision (31 CFR part 315).
[[63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998]]

§ 321.7   Authorized cash payments.

(a) General. Subject to the terms and conditions appearing on the securities, the governing regulations, and the provisions of this part, and any instructions issued in connection therewith, an agent may make payment of savings bonds of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, and I, and savings notes, presented for cash redemption. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d), and (f) of this section, the securities must be presented by an individual whose name is inscribed on the securities as owner or coowner, and who is known to the agent, or who can establish his or her identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and guidelines (See § 321.11(b)).
General.
Subject to the terms and conditions appearing on the securities, the governing regulations, and the provisions of this part, and any instructions issued in connection therewith, an agent may make payment of savings bonds of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, and I, and savings notes, presented for cash redemption. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d), and (f) of this section, the securities must be presented by an individual whose name is inscribed on the securities as owner or coowner, and who is known to the agent, or who can establish his or her identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and guidelines (See § 321.11(b)).
(b) Change of name by marriage. If the name of the presenter has been changed by marriage from that shown on the security, and the agent knows or establishes that the presenter and the person whose name appears on the security are one and the same individual, the agent may pay the security in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The signature to the request for payment should show both names, e.g., “Mary J. Smith, changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones.”
Change of name by marriage.
If the name of the presenter has been changed by marriage from that shown on the security, and the agent knows or establishes that the presenter and the person whose name appears on the security are one and the same individual, the agent may pay the security in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The signature to the request for payment should show both names, e.g., “Mary J. Smith, changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones.”
(c) Parent of a minor. Payment of a security bearing the name of a minor child, who is not of sufficient competency and understanding to sign the request for payment and comprehend the nature of the act, may be made to either parent with whom the minor resides or to whom custody has been granted, provided the form of registration does not indicate that a guardian or similar representative of the estate of the minor has been appointed or is otherwise legally qualified. Payment under this subsection may not be made to any person other than a parent. The parent requesting payment must sign the request for payment in the form, e.g., “John A. Jones, on behalf of John C. Jones.” The following endorsement must be typed or imprinted on the back of the security:
Parent of a minor.
Payment of a security bearing the name of a minor child, who is not of sufficient competency and understanding to sign the request for payment and comprehend the nature of the act, may be made to either parent with whom the minor resides or to whom custody has been granted, provided the form of registration does not indicate that a guardian or similar representative of the estate of the minor has been appointed or is otherwise legally qualified. Payment under this subsection may not be made to any person other than a parent. The parent requesting payment must sign the request for payment in the form, e.g., “John A. Jones, on behalf of John C. Jones.” The following endorsement must be typed or imprinted on the back of the security:
I certify that I am the (father or mother) of John C. Jones and the person (with whom he resides) (to whom custody has been granted). He is __ years of age and is not of sufficient competency and understanding to sign the request.
(d) Payment to beneficiary. An agent may redeem a security registered “A P.O.D. [payable on death to] B” for cash at the request of the surviving beneficiary following the owner's death. A copy of the owner's death certificate, certified under seal of the State or local registrar, must be furnished to support the request for payment.
Payment to beneficiary.
An agent may redeem a security registered “A P.O.D. [payable on death to] B” for cash at the request of the surviving beneficiary following the owner's death. A copy of the owner's death certificate, certified under seal of the State or local registrar, must be furnished to support the request for payment.
(e) Payment to a legal representative designated on a security by name and title. An agent may redeem a security registered in the name and title of a legal representative as defined in § 321.1, if the legal representative is known to the agent, or can establish identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and guidelines. The request for payment on the back of each security must be signed by the legal representative designated by name and title in the registration on the front of the security, or by a person authorized or empowered to act for a corporate legal representative so designated. The full title of the legal representative should be shown adjacent to each signature and, in the case of a corporate legal representative, the full corporate name, as well as the title, i.e., vice president, trust officer, etc., should be shown. Examples:
Payment to a legal representative designated on a security by name and title.
An agent may redeem a security registered in the name and title of a legal representative as defined in § 321.1, if the legal representative is known to the agent, or can establish identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and guidelines. The request for payment on the back of each security must be signed by the legal representative designated by name and title in the registration on the front of the security, or by a person authorized or empowered to act for a corporate legal representative so designated. The full title of the legal representative should be shown adjacent to each signature and, in the case of a corporate legal representative, the full corporate name, as well as the title, i.e., vice president, trust officer, etc., should be shown. Examples:
Henry C. Smith, conservator of the estate of John R. White, an adult, pursuant to Sec. 633.572 of the Iowa Code.
Tenth National Bank by Arnold A. Ames, Vice President, guardian of the estate of Barry B. Bryan, a minor.
(f) Payment to a legal representative of a decedent's estate not designated on a security. An agent may redeem a security bearing the names of deceased persons in the registration, if the legal representative of the estate of the last deceased registrant:
Payment to a legal representative of a decedent's estate not designated on a security.
An agent may redeem a security bearing the names of deceased persons in the registration, if the legal representative of the estate of the last deceased registrant:
(1) Presents the security;
(2) Signs the request for payment on the back of the security, showing the representative's full title adjacent to the signature; and
(3) Presents acceptable evidence of the legal representative's appointment and of the dates of death of all persons named in the security's registration, in accordance with this part and the appendix.
In the case of a corporate legal representative, the full corporate name, as well as the title, must be shown. Examples:
John H. Smith and Charles N. Jones, co-executors of the will of Robert J. Smith, deceased.
Tenth National Bank by John F. Green, Trust Officer, executor of the will of George N. Brown, deceased.
(g) Interest reporting. A paying agent is required to report interest in the amount of $10 or more, paid as part of the redemption value of securities, to the payee and to the Internal Revenue Service, in accordance with 26 CFR 1.6049-4. (See Item 26 of the appendix to this part for information concerning the education feature of Series EE savings bonds issued on or after January 1, 1990, and of Series I savings bonds.)
Interest reporting.
A paying agent is required to report interest in the amount of $10 or more, paid as part of the redemption value of securities, to the payee and to the Internal Revenue Service, in accordance with 26 CFR 1.6049-4. (See Item 26 of the appendix to this part for information concerning the education feature of Series EE savings bonds issued on or after January 1, 1990, and of Series I savings bonds.)
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35395, Aug. 29, 1990; 63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998]]

§ 321.8   Redemption-exchange of Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes.

(a) General. Subject to the provisions of Circular No. 2-80 (31 CFR part 352), the governing regulations, and the provisions of this part and its appendix, an agent may make payment of eligible securities presented for redemption in exchange for Series HH bonds. Securities eligible for exchange are:
General.
Subject to the provisions of Circular No. 2-80 (31 CFR part 352), the governing regulations, and the provisions of this part and its appendix, an agent may make payment of eligible securities presented for redemption in exchange for Series HH bonds. Securities eligible for exchange are:
(1) Series EE bonds bearing issue dates of January 1, 2003, or earlier, presented no earlier than six months from their issue dates;
(2) Series EE bonds bearing issue dates of February 1, 2003, or thereafter, presented no earlier than 12 months from their issue dates; and
(3) Series E bonds and savings notes presented no later than one year from the month in which they reached final maturity. The total redemption value of the securities presented for exchange must be at least $500.
(b) Requirements for redemption-exchange. An agent shall not accept and redeem eligible securities on exchange unless:
Requirements for redemption-exchange.
An agent shall not accept and redeem eligible securities on exchange unless:
(1) The securities are accompanied by a completed exchange subscription signed by the presenter;
(2) The presenter is the owner, the legal representative (excluding a representative of a decedent's estate), the surviving coowner or beneficiary, or the principal coowner (as defined in § 352.7(e)(2) in 31 CFR part 352 (Circular No. 2-80)) of the securities presented for exchange and is to be named as owner or first-named coowner on the Series HH bonds; and
(3) The request for payment on each security is signed by the presenter. A presenter who is a legal representative should show the full title adjacent to each signature and, in the case of a corporate legal representative, should show the full corporate name, as well as the title. If the name of the presenter has been changed by marriage, or if the presenter is named as beneficiary or legal representative on the securities, the agent may process the transaction in accordance with the provisions of § 321.7 (b), (d), or (e) of this part. If the agent is authorized and elects to use the special endorsement procedure, set out in 31 CFR part 330 (Circular No. 888, current revision), the requests for payment do not need to be signed; however, this special endorsement may not be used in lieu of the presenter's signature on the exchange subscription.
(c) Interest reporting. To the extent that it represents interest of $10 or more, a paying agent is required to report cash, refunded in an exchange transaction, to the presenter and to the Internal Revenue Service under the provisions of 26 CFR 1.6049-4.
Interest reporting.
To the extent that it represents interest of $10 or more, a paying agent is required to report cash, refunded in an exchange transaction, to the presenter and to the Internal Revenue Service under the provisions of 26 CFR 1.6049-4.
(d) Completion of transaction. An agent shall transmit for settlement eligible securities redeemed on exchange and, at the same time, forward the exchange application (PD F 3253) and any additional cash needed to complete the transaction to a TRS Site.
Completion of transaction.
An agent shall transmit for settlement eligible securities redeemed on exchange and, at the same time, forward the exchange application (PD F 3253) and any additional cash needed to complete the transaction to a TRS Site.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35396, Aug. 29, 1990; 59 FR 10537, Mar. 4, 1994; 68 FR 2666, Jan. 17, 2003; 68 FR 7427, Feb. 14, 2003; 77 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.9   Specific limitations on payment authority.

An agent is not authorized to redeem a security for cash or on redemption-exchange:
(a)(1) If it is a Series EE bond or a Series I bond issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, presented for payment prior to six months from its issue date; or
(2) If it is a Series EE bond or a Series I bond issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter, presented for payment prior to 12 months from its issue date.
(b) If it is a savings bond of Series F, G, H, J, K, or HH.
(c) If the presenter is acting under a power of attorney.
(d) If the agent does not know or cannot establish the identity of the presenter as a person entitled to request payment as provided in § 321.7.
(e) If the presenter does not sign his or her name in ink as it is inscribed on the security (except as provided in § 321.7 (b) or (c) of this part, or appears in evidence of appointment (see § 321.7(f)), and show a home or business address.
(f) If the taxpayer identifying number of the presenter, or the estate represented by the presenter, is not known to the agent and the presenter refuses to furnish the number.
(g) If the security bears a material irregularity, such as an illegible, incomplete or unauthorized inscription, issue date, or issuing agent's validating data, or if any essential part of the security appears to have been altered or is mutilated or defaced in such a manner as to create doubt or arouse suspicion.
(h) If the security is registered in the name of a corporation, association, partnership, or other organization in its own right.
(i) If Treasury regulations require the submission of documentary evidence to support the redemption, except as provided in § 321.7 (d) or (f) of this part, as in the case of incompetents, minors under legal guardianship, or the change of a registrant's name other than by marriage.
(j) If the presenter is a minor who, in the opinion of the agent, is not of sufficient competency and understanding to sign the request for payment and comprehend the nature of the act.
(k) If it is known to the agent that the presenter has been legally declared incompetent to manage his or her affairs.
(l) If partial redemption is requested.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35396, Aug. 29, 1990; 63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998; 68 FR 2666, Jan. 17, 2003; 68 FR 7427, Feb. 14, 2003]]

§ 321.10   Responsibilities of paying agents.

(a) Payment of securities. A paying agent is required to redeem eligible securities during its regular business hours for any presenter, whether or not a customer, who can establish his or her identity as the owner or co-owner named on the securities, in accordance with the provisions of this part, and the appendix to this part, and the Treasury Identification Guide for Cashing United States Savings Bonds. An agent is encouraged, but is not required, to redeem eligible securities during its regular business hours for a surviving beneficiary, a legal representative designated in the registration of securities presented, or a legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate who can provide acceptable evidence (see § 321.7 (d) or (f)) and establish identity in accordance with this part.
Payment of securities.
A paying agent is required to redeem eligible securities during its regular business hours for any presenter, whether or not a customer, who can establish his or her identity as the owner or co-owner named on the securities, in accordance with the provisions of this part, and the appendix to this part, and the Treasury Identification Guide for Cashing United States Savings Bonds. An agent is encouraged, but is not required, to redeem eligible securities during its regular business hours for a surviving beneficiary, a legal representative designated in the registration of securities presented, or a legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate who can provide acceptable evidence (see § 321.7 (d) or (f)) and establish identity in accordance with this part.
(b) Restrictions. A paying agent shall not advance money, make loans on, or discount the redemption value of securities, nor in any manner assist others to do so. An agent shall not pay a presenter the current value of a security and then defer presentation to the Treasury for the purpose of obtaining for its own profit an increased value.
Restrictions.
A paying agent shall not advance money, make loans on, or discount the redemption value of securities, nor in any manner assist others to do so. An agent shall not pay a presenter the current value of a security and then defer presentation to the Treasury for the purpose of obtaining for its own profit an increased value.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35396, Aug. 29, 1990]]

Subpart D—Payment and Transmittal of Securities


§ 321.11   Payment.

(a) Examination. Before making a payment of a security, a paying agent shall examine the security to determine that it is eligible for redemption and is one the agent is authorized to pay under the provisions of this part.
Examination.
Before making a payment of a security, a paying agent shall examine the security to determine that it is eligible for redemption and is one the agent is authorized to pay under the provisions of this part.
(b) Identification and evidence of entitlement. The agent shall determine that the presenter of the security is entitled to request payment, as provided in § 321.7 of this part. Unless the presenter is a person whose identity is well-known to the agent or is an established customer, he or she should be asked to furnish satisfactory identification in accordance with the Treasury instructions and guidelines. At the time of payment, the agent should make a notation on the back of the security, or in its own records, specifying precisely what was relied on to establish the presenter's identity.
Identification and evidence of entitlement.
The agent shall determine that the presenter of the security is entitled to request payment, as provided in § 321.7 of this part. Unless the presenter is a person whose identity is well-known to the agent or is an established customer, he or she should be asked to furnish satisfactory identification in accordance with the Treasury instructions and guidelines. At the time of payment, the agent should make a notation on the back of the security, or in its own records, specifying precisely what was relied on to establish the presenter's identity.
(c) Evidence—Payment to a beneficiary. The agent shall determine that the presenter of the security as beneficiary is entitled to request payment, as provided in § 321.7(d). In addition to establishing the presenter's identification, as required by paragraph (b) of this section, the agent shall require presentation of the owner's death certificate in accordance with this part and the appendix.
Evidence—Payment to a beneficiary.
The agent shall determine that the presenter of the security as beneficiary is entitled to request payment, as provided in § 321.7(d). In addition to establishing the presenter's identification, as required by paragraph (b) of this section, the agent shall require presentation of the owner's death certificate in accordance with this part and the appendix.
(d) Evidence—Payment to a legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate. The agent shall determine whether the legal representative is entitled to request payment, as provided in § 321.7(f). In addition to establishing the presenter's identification, as required by paragraph (b) of this section, the agent shall require evidence of appointment as well as evidence of the dates of death of all persons named in the registrations of the securities presented. Evidence of the representative's appointment must be either a court certificate or a copy of the letters of appointment, certified to be true and correct under seal of the court or clerk of court. If the original appointment was made more than one year prior to the presentation of the securities it must also bear the court clerk's statement that the appointment is in full force and effect. This statement must be under seal of the court or clerk of court and dated within six months of the presentation. Such evidence of appointment must pertain to the estate of the last deceased registrant designated on the securities. A copy of a death certificate, certified under seal of the State or local registrar, is the only acceptable evidence of the date of death.
Evidence—Payment to a legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate.
The agent shall determine whether the legal representative is entitled to request payment, as provided in § 321.7(f). In addition to establishing the presenter's identification, as required by paragraph (b) of this section, the agent shall require evidence of appointment as well as evidence of the dates of death of all persons named in the registrations of the securities presented. Evidence of the representative's appointment must be either a court certificate or a copy of the letters of appointment, certified to be true and correct under seal of the court or clerk of court. If the original appointment was made more than one year prior to the presentation of the securities it must also bear the court clerk's statement that the appointment is in full force and effect. This statement must be under seal of the court or clerk of court and dated within six months of the presentation. Such evidence of appointment must pertain to the estate of the last deceased registrant designated on the securities. A copy of a death certificate, certified under seal of the State or local registrar, is the only acceptable evidence of the date of death.
(e) Execution of request. (1) The agent shall require:
Execution of request.
(1) The agent shall require:
(i) That the request for payment on the back of each security be signed by the presenter in the presence of one of its officers or authorized employees; and
(ii) That the presenter's address be furnished. Fiduciaries must sign as provided in § 321.7 (e) and (f).
(2) If the agent is qualified under 31 CFR part 330 (Circular No. 888, current revision) and elects to use the special endorsement procedure, the request for payment need not be signed. If the request has already been signed when the security is presented, it should be signed again.
(f) Certification of request. An agent is not required to complete the certification to the requests for payment on securities it redeems. When an agent transmits redeemed securities for settlement, as indicated in § 321.14 of this part, such agent shall be understood by such submission to have represented and certified that the identity of the presenter, and his or her entitlement to request payment, have been established in accordance with this part and the appendix hereto.
Certification of request.
An agent is not required to complete the certification to the requests for payment on securities it redeems. When an agent transmits redeemed securities for settlement, as indicated in § 321.14 of this part, such agent shall be understood by such submission to have represented and certified that the identity of the presenter, and his or her entitlement to request payment, have been established in accordance with this part and the appendix hereto.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35396, Aug. 29, 1990; 59 FR 10537, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 321.12   Redemption value of securities.

The redemption value of each savings security is determined by the terms of its offering and the length of time it has been outstanding. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service determines redemption values for Series A-E bonds, eligible Series EE and I bonds, and savings notes, that should be used in redeeming savings securities.
[[63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998]]

§ 321.13   Cancellation of redeemed securities.

A paying agent shall cancel each redeemed security by imprinting the word “PAID” on its face and entering the amount and date of the actual payment and the agent's name, location, and four-digit code number assigned by a TRS Site or nine-digit ABA code number. The recordation of this data shall constitute a certification by the agent that the security was redeemed in accordance with the provisions of this part, that the presenter's identity and entitlement to request payment were duly established, and that the proceeds were paid to the presenter or remitted to a TRS Site in payment for Series HH savings bonds.
[[77 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.14   Transmittal to and settlement with a Federal Reserve Processing Site.

Except for eligible securities redeemed on exchange pursuant to § 321.8, a paying agent shall transmit for payment all redeemed securities to a Federal Reserve Processing Site in accordance with the Federal Reserve Operating Circular.
[[77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

Subpart E—Losses Resulting From Erroneous Payments


§ 321.15   Liability for losses.

Under the governing statute, as amended (31 U.S.C. 3126(a)), an agent cannot be relieved of liability for a loss resulting from an erroneous payment unless the Secretary of the Treasury can make a determination that the loss resulted from no fault or negligence on the agent's part.

§ 321.16   Report of erroneous payment.

If an agent discovers an erroneous payment of securities, it should immediately advise the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV, as further described in the instructions and guidance issued pursuant to § 321.27.
[[77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.17   Investigation of potential loss.

(a) Notice to an agent. When it determines that a loss has occurred, because of the erroneous payment of securities, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will notify the agent in writing and identify the securities.
Notice to an agent.
When it determines that a loss has occurred, because of the erroneous payment of securities, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will notify the agent in writing and identify the securities.
(b) Investigative procedure. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service may request the United States Secret Service to investigate potential losses. Upon request, the agent shall make available to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or its investigative agent, all records and information pertaining to the transaction in question, including the disposition of the redemption proceeds. If the proceeds were deposited in an account maintained by the agent, the information made available shall include the ultimate disposition of the redemption proceeds from the account.
Investigative procedure.
The Bureau of the Fiscal Service may request the United States Secret Service to investigate potential losses. Upon request, the agent shall make available to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or its investigative agent, all records and information pertaining to the transaction in question, including the disposition of the redemption proceeds. If the proceeds were deposited in an account maintained by the agent, the information made available shall include the ultimate disposition of the redemption proceeds from the account.

§ 321.18   Determination of loss.

Upon completion of the investigation, and after consideration of the results, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service shall advise the agent through which the payment occurred:
(a) That no final loss to the United States has occurred, and, accordingly, that the agent is relieved from liability for the payment, or that no claim for reimbursement shall be made unless and until a loss has been sustained; or
(b) That while a final loss to the United States has occurred, the agent is not required to make reimbursement therefor, as the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, has determined that such loss resulted from no fault or negligence on the part of such agent; or
(c) That a final loss to the United States has occurred, and that, the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, has been unable to make an affirmative finding that such loss resulted from no fault or negligence on the part of such agent, reimbursement must be made promptly, except where credit for the payment had not previously been extended.

§ 321.19   Certification of signatures.

The regulations in this subpart shall, to the extent appropriate, apply to losses resulting from payments made in reliance on certifications of signatures by an officer or designated employee of any financial institution authorized to certify requests for payment.

§ 321.20   Applicability of provisions.

The provisions of this subpart shall apply to securities redeemed by or submitted to any Federal Reserve Processing Site, any TRS Site, or any Treasury office authorized to redeem securities, as well as to paying agents.
[[77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.21   Replacement and recovery of losses.

(a) If a final loss results from the redemption of a security, and the paying agent redeeming the security is not relieved of liability for such loss under 31 U.S.C. 3126(a), the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will demand that the paying agent promptly reimburse the United States in the amount of the final loss and will take such other action as may be necessary to collect such amount as set out in the procedure described in paragraph 21 of the appendix to this part.
(b) If a final loss has resulted from the redemption of a security, and no reimbursement has been or will be made, the loss shall be subject to replacement out of the fund established by the Government Losses in Shipment Act, as amended.
[[61 FR 37197, July 16, 1996]]

Subpart F—Forwarding Items


§ 321.22   Forwarding securities not payable by an agent.

Any securities an agent is not authorized to pay under the provisions of this part should be forwarded for redemption to a TRS Site. The requests for payment on the securities should be properly certified. Any documentary evidence required to support the transaction should accompany the securities. If the securities are presented for redemption-exchange, they must also be accompanied by a completed and signed exchange subscription and additional cash needed to complete the transaction. Unpaid securities must be forwarded to a TRS Site in accordance with the rules in this part. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service provides agents with instructions and guidance regarding forwarding items. These instructions identify the specific types of redemption cases that should be forwarded and the processing instructions that paying agents must follow. These instructions are available from a TRS Site or online at www.treasurydirect.gov.
www.treasurydirect.gov.
[[77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

Subpart G—Miscellaneous Provisions


§ 321.23   Paying agent fees and charges.

(a) Fees. Fees may be paid as outlined in this section. A schedule setting out the fees, and the basis on which they are computed and paid, is separately published in the Federal Register. Current information is available from a TRS Site or online at www.treasurydirect.gov.
Fees.
Fees may be paid as outlined in this section. A schedule setting out the fees, and the basis on which they are computed and paid, is separately published in the
Federal Register.
Current information is available from a TRS Site or online at
www.treasurydirect.gov.
(b) Discontinuance, reduction, or delay in fees. The Secretary may authorize, upon notice in the Federal Register, the discontinuance, reduction, or delay of fee payments.
Discontinuance, reduction, or delay in fees.
The Secretary may authorize, upon notice in the
Federal Register,
the discontinuance, reduction, or delay of fee payments.
(c) Charges to presenters. A paying agent shall not make any charge whatever to persons entitled to request payment of securities, for redeeming them under the provisions of this part.
Charges to presenters.
A paying agent shall not make any charge whatever to persons entitled to request payment of securities, for redeeming them under the provisions of this part.
[[77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.24   Claims on account of lost securities.

If a security redeemed by an agent is lost, stolen or destroyed while in its custody or in transit prior to settlement, the agent's claim for reimbursement of the missing security's redemption value on the original payment date will be considered, provided the security can be identified by serial number.

§ 321.25   Payment and retention of definitive securities.

The definitive security must be presented and surrendered to the paying agent in order to receive payment. An agent is prohibited from accepting an image, or other copy or reproduction of the definitive security, for redemption or processing. To ensure that all transactions processed by agents are properly validated, agents must establish and comply with a retention period for definitive securities that are truncated and converted to an electronic image. At a minimum, the agent must retain such securities for a period of thirty calendar days following the date that the agent submitted the electronic image of the paid security to a Federal Reserve Processing Site. Agents may establish longer retention periods for definitive securities at their discretion.
[[77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.26   Role of Federal Reserve Banks.

Federal Reserve Banks (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) perform services as fiscal agents of the United States. These Federal Reserve Banks shall perform such services in connection with this part as may be requested by the Secretary of the Treasury, or a designee. These Federal Reserve Banks are authorized and directed to perform such duties, including the issuance of supplemental instructions and forms, as may be necessary to fulfill the purposes and requirements of these regulations. The instructions and guidance issued pursuant to § 321.27 set forth each Federal Reserve Bank that has been designated as a Federal Reserve Processing Site or as a TRS Site by the Secretary of the Treasury, or a designee.
[[77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.27   Instructions and guidance.

(a) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will provide Federal Reserve Processing Sites, TRS Sites, and paying agents with instructions and guidance on how to process redemption transactions. This information is available online at the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's Web site at www.treasurydirect.gov, Federal Reserve Processing Sites, and TRS Sites. Paying agents must follow these instructions and guidance.
www.treasurydirect.gov
, Federal Reserve Processing Sites, and TRS Sites. Paying agents must follow these instructions and guidance.
(b) The Federal Reserve Operating Circular sets forth additional rights and obligations of paying agents with respect to redemption transactions. Additional instructions and guidance are available online at the Federal Reserve Bank Services Web site at www.FRBservices.org.
www.FRBservices.org.
(c) Paying agents are required to process redemptions in accordance with the terms and conditions cited in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The Secretary of the Treasury, or a designee, reserves the right to hold an agent liable whose failure to follow these instructions results in an incorrect amount being paid for a redeemed security.
[[77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.28   Preservation of rights.

Nothing contained in this part shall limit or restrict any existing rights which holders of securities may have acquired under the offering circulars and the applicable regulations.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988. Redesignated at 77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 321.29   Supplements, amendments, or revisions.

The Secretary of the Treasury may, at any time or from time to time, revise, supplement, amend or withdraw, in whole or in part, the provisions of this part.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988. Redesignated at 77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

Appendix to Part 321—Appendix to Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, Fourth Revision

Fiscal Service, Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Subpart A—General Information
1. Purpose. This appendix is issued for the guidance of banks and other financial institutions qualified as paying agents of United States Savings Bonds and United States Savings Notes (Freedom Shares) under the provisions of 31 CFR part 321 [Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, Fourth Revision]. Its purpose is to provide information to supplement the regulations contained in the part and specific instructions for processing redemption and redemption-exchange transactions. The information and instructions are indexed to the sections and subsections of part 321 which they explain or expand.
Purpose.
This appendix is issued for the guidance of banks and other financial institutions qualified as paying agents of United States Savings Bonds and United States Savings Notes (Freedom Shares) under the provisions of 31 CFR part 321 [Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, Fourth Revision]. Its purpose is to provide information to supplement the regulations contained in the part and specific instructions for processing redemption and redemption-exchange transactions. The information and instructions are indexed to the sections and subsections of part 321 which they explain or expand.
2. Other pertinent publications. In addition to part 321, agents should be familiar with the provisions of the following publications:
Other pertinent publications.
In addition to part 321, agents should be familiar with the provisions of the following publications:
(a) Offering circulars. Department of the Treasury Circulars, Fiscal Service Series Nos. 1-80 (31 CFR part 351, Series EE bonds), 2-80 (31 CFR part 352, Series HH bonds), 1-98 (31 CFR part 359, Series I bonds), and 3-67 (31 CFR part 342, savings notes), and Department of the Treasury Circulars Nos. 653 (31 CFR part 316, Series E bonds) and 905 (31 CFR part 339, Series H bonds).
Offering circulars.
Department of the Treasury Circulars, Fiscal Service Series Nos. 1-80 (31 CFR part 351, Series EE bonds), 2-80 (31 CFR part 352, Series HH bonds), 1-98 (31 CFR part 359, Series I bonds), and 3-67 (31 CFR part 342, savings notes), and Department of the Treasury Circulars Nos. 653 (31 CFR part 316, Series E bonds) and 905 (31 CFR part 339, Series H bonds).
(b) Regulations. Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80 (Series EE and HH bonds); Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series 2-98 (Series I bonds); Department of the Treasury Circulars Nos. 530 (all other series of savings securities) and 888 (special endorsements); Federal Tax Regulations (26 CFR 1.6049); Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR parts 101-105); Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items and Wire Transfers of Funds (12 CFR part 210); and operating circulars issued by Federal Reserve Banks relating to the collection of cash items and Federal payments by ACH.
Regulations.
Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80 (Series EE and HH bonds); Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series 2-98 (Series I bonds); Department of the Treasury Circulars Nos. 530 (all other series of savings securities) and 888 (special endorsements); Federal Tax Regulations (26 CFR 1.6049); Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR parts 101-105); Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items and Wire Transfers of Funds (12 CFR part 210); and operating circulars issued by Federal Reserve Banks relating to the collection of cash items and Federal payments by ACH.
Subpart B—Procedures for Qualification
3. Qualification of branches. [Sec. 321.3(b)] Qualification of an institution as a paying agent automatically qualifies only its domestic branches. A foreign branch of a qualified paying agent may redeem securities provided settlement is made through a qualified facility located in the Unied States.
Qualification of branches.
[Sec. 321.3(b)] Qualification of an institution as a paying agent automatically qualifies only its domestic branches. A foreign branch of a qualified paying agent may redeem securities provided settlement is made through a qualified facility located in the Unied States.
4. Paying agent code numbers. [§§ 321.3(b) and 321.13] The TRS Site may assign a four-digit code number to each agent it qualifies. A separate number may be assigned to each branch of the paying agent authorized to redeem and submit redeemed securities for its own account at a TRS Site. At the paying agent's request, only one four-digit code will be assigned for use by all of its branches.
Paying agent code numbers.
[§§ 321.3(b) and 321.13] The TRS Site may assign a four-digit code number to each agent it qualifies. A separate number may be assigned to each branch of the paying agent authorized to redeem and submit redeemed securities for its own account at a TRS Site. At the paying agent's request, only one four-digit code will be assigned for use by all of its branches.
5. Requalification. [§ 321.3(b)] If there has been a change in the corporate name of an agent, whether through merger, consolidation, sale of assets, or in any other manner, the agent may be asked by a TRS Site to requalify to reflect the change. Ordinarily, requalification is not required unless (a) the change results in a corporation that, under State law, cannot retain the rights of the corporation that ceased to exist, or (b) in the case of a purchase of assets and assumption of liability, the purchaser corporation is not a qualified paying agent.
Requalification.
[§ 321.3(b)] If there has been a change in the corporate name of an agent, whether through merger, consolidation, sale of assets, or in any other manner, the agent may be asked by a TRS Site to requalify to reflect the change. Ordinarily, requalification is not required unless (a) the change results in a corporation that, under State law, cannot retain the rights of the corporation that ceased to exist, or (b) in the case of a purchase of assets and assumption of liability, the purchaser corporation is not a qualified paying agent.
6. Announcement of authority. [Sec. 321.3(c)] On and after the effective date of its qualification, a paying agent may appropriately announce or advertise its authority to redeem eligible securities for cash and in exchange for Series HH bonds. Such statements and notices should not, directly or indirectly, encourage the encashment of the securities. Two examples of acceptable statements for use in advertisements or displays are:
Announcement of authority.
[Sec. 321.3(c)] On and after the effective date of its qualification, a paying agent may appropriately announce or advertise its authority to redeem eligible securities for cash and in exchange for Series HH bonds. Such statements and notices should not, directly or indirectly, encourage the encashment of the securities. Two examples of acceptable statements for use in advertisements or displays are:
(a) “We are an authorized agent for payment of U.S. Savings Bonds and U.S. Savings Notes (Freedom Shares).”
(b) “This (bank/savings and loan association/credit union, etc.) is authorized to pay U.S. Savings Bonds and U.S. Savings Notes (Freedom Shares) and process eligible Series E and EE bonds and savings notes in exchange for Series HH bonds.”
Subpart C—Scope of Authority
7. Authorized cash payments. [Sec. 321.7]
Authorized cash payments.
[Sec. 321.7]
(a) General. [§ 321.7(a)] The general authority of paying agents to redeem savings securities for cash extends to Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, and I bonds and savings notes presented by the owner, coowner, surviving beneficiary, parent on behalf of a minor, legal representative designated in the registrations of savings securities presented, or legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate. The presenter must sign the requests for payment and establish his or her identity and, in the case of a beneficiary, parent or legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate, entitlement to request payment.
General.
[§ 321.7(a)] The general authority of paying agents to redeem savings securities for cash extends to Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, and I bonds and savings notes presented by the owner, coowner, surviving beneficiary, parent on behalf of a minor, legal representative designated in the registrations of savings securities presented, or legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate. The presenter must sign the requests for payment and establish his or her identity and, in the case of a beneficiary, parent or legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate, entitlement to request payment.
(b) Securities submitted by mail. [Sec. 321.7(a)] An agent may accept eligible securities submitted, for redemption by mail, from known customers. The agent should be satisfied that the customer is entitled to request payment and that he or she has signed the requests for payment. The agent should obtain written instructions to credit the redemption proceeds to the customer's account or to make some other disposition. For its protection, the agent should retain such instructions for as long as ten years in the event the transaction is later questioned.
Securities submitted by mail.
[Sec. 321.7(a)] An agent may accept eligible securities submitted, for redemption by mail, from known customers. The agent should be satisfied that the customer is entitled to request payment and that he or she has signed the requests for payment. The agent should obtain written instructions to credit the redemption proceeds to the customer's account or to make some other disposition. For its protection, the agent should retain such instructions for as long as ten years in the event the transaction is later questioned.
(c) Interest reporting. [Sec. 321.7(e)] Pursuant to 26 CFR 1.6049-4, an agent is required to report interest income in the amount of $10 or more paid as part of the redemption value of securities. Reports to payees should be made on Form 1099-INT or an IRS-approved substitute; reports to the Internal Revenue Service should be made in accordance with that agency's instructions. A separate report may be made for each transaction in which interest in the amount of $10 or more is paid, or all interest payments, made during a calendar year, may be aggregated and reported annually should the total amount be $10 or more.
Interest reporting.
[Sec. 321.7(e)] Pursuant to 26 CFR 1.6049-4, an agent is required to report interest income in the amount of $10 or more paid as part of the redemption value of securities. Reports to payees should be made on Form 1099-INT or an IRS-approved substitute; reports to the Internal Revenue Service should be made in accordance with that agency's instructions. A separate report may be made for each transaction in which interest in the amount of $10 or more is paid, or all interest payments, made during a calendar year, may be aggregated and reported annually should the total amount be $10 or more.
8. Redemption-exchange of Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes. [Sec. 321.8]
Redemption-exchange of Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes.
[Sec. 321.8]
(a) General. [Sec. 321.8 (a) and (b)] The general authority of paying agents to redeem securities in exchange for Series HH bonds extends only to eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented with a completed Form PD 3253, “Exchange Subscription for United States Savings Bonds of Series HH.” Securities eligible for exchange are: (1) Series EE bonds issued January 1, 2003, or earlier, presented no earlier than six months from their issue dates; (2) Series EE bonds issued February 1, 2003, or thereafter, presented no earlier than 12 months from their issue dates; and (3) Series E bonds and savings notes presented no later than one year from the month in which they reached final maturity. The current redemption value of securities presented in one transaction must be at least $500. The presenter must establish his or her identity and entitlement to request the exchange and sign the exchange subcription and the requests for payment on the securities.
General.
[Sec. 321.8 (a) and (b)] The general authority of paying agents to redeem securities in exchange for Series HH bonds extends only to eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented with a completed Form PD 3253, “Exchange Subscription for United States Savings Bonds of Series HH.” Securities eligible for exchange are: (1) Series EE bonds issued January 1, 2003, or earlier, presented no earlier than six months from their issue dates; (2) Series EE bonds issued February 1, 2003, or thereafter, presented no earlier than 12 months from their issue dates; and (3) Series E bonds and savings notes presented no later than one year from the month in which they reached final maturity. The current redemption value of securities presented in one transaction must be at least $500. The presenter must establish his or her identity and entitlement to request the exchange and sign the exchange subcription and the requests for payment on the securities.
(b) Securities in the name of a minor. [Sec. 321.8(b)] If an exchange subscription is submitted on behalf of a minor who is too young to comprehend the nature of the transaction, the form must be completed to request that the Series HH bonds be registered either in the minor's name alone or in exactly the same form as the securities presented for exchange. Agents are instructed to discourage exchange transactions involving minors who are too young to conduct them on their own.
Securities in the name of a minor.
[Sec. 321.8(b)] If an exchange subscription is submitted on behalf of a minor who is too young to comprehend the nature of the transaction, the form must be completed to request that the Series HH bonds be registered either in the minor's name alone or in exactly the same form as the securities presented for exchange. Agents are instructed to discourage exchange transactions involving minors who are too young to conduct them on their own.
(c) Interest reporting. [Sec. 321.8(c)] Pursuant to 26 CFR 1.6049-4, an agent is required to report interest income in the amount of $10 or more included in any cash refunded in a redemption-exchange transaction. Reports to payees should be made on Form 1099-INT or an IRS-approved substitute; reports to the Internal Revenue Service should be made in accordance with that agency's instructions. A separate report may be made for each redemption-exchange transaction in which interest in the amount of $10 or more is refunded, or all interest paid in both cash transactions and redemption-exchanges during a calendar year may be aggregated and reported annually should the total amount be $10 or more.
Interest reporting.
[Sec. 321.8(c)] Pursuant to 26 CFR 1.6049-4, an agent is required to report interest income in the amount of $10 or more included in any cash refunded in a redemption-exchange transaction. Reports to payees should be made on Form 1099-INT or an IRS-approved substitute; reports to the Internal Revenue Service should be made in accordance with that agency's instructions. A separate report may be made for each redemption-exchange transaction in which interest in the amount of $10 or more is refunded, or all interest paid in both cash transactions and redemption-exchanges during a calendar year may be aggregated and reported annually should the total amount be $10 or more.
9. Specific limitations on payment authority. [Sec. 321.9]
Specific limitations on payment authority.
[Sec. 321.9]
(a) Allowable exceptions. Securities that an agent may not redeem because of the limitations in § 321.9 should be forwarded to a TRS Site for handling. However, if an agent is willing to assume full responsibility, it may make payment of an eligible security which bears a minor irregularity, such as a misspelled name, a transposition of letters, etc., because of its knowledge of the facts, or because it wishes to rely on the integrity of the presenter.
Allowable exceptions.
Securities that an agent may not redeem because of the limitations in § 321.9 should be forwarded to a TRS Site for handling. However, if an agent is willing to assume full responsibility, it may make payment of an eligible security which bears a minor irregularity, such as a misspelled name, a transposition of letters, etc., because of its knowledge of the facts, or because it wishes to rely on the integrity of the presenter.
(b) Taxpayer identifying number of presenter. [Sec. 321.9(f)] An agent shall refuse payment of any security if the taxpayer identifying number of the presenter, or the estate represented by the presenter, is not known to the agent and the presenter is unwilling to furnish the number. A parent who requests payment on behalf of a minor in accordance with § 321.7(c) of this part must provide the minor's social security number.
Taxpayer identifying number of presenter.
[Sec. 321.9(f)] An agent shall refuse payment of any security if the taxpayer identifying number of the presenter, or the estate represented by the presenter, is not known to the agent and the presenter is unwilling to furnish the number. A parent who requests payment on behalf of a minor in accordance with § 321.7(c) of this part must provide the minor's social security number.
(c) Payments to minors. [Sec. 321.9(j)] A minor may not request payment of securities if he or she is not of sufficient competency and understanding to comprehend the nature of the act. Because of individual differences in comprehension, the Treasury has not established any rule as to the exact age at which a minor should be able to redeem securities. An agent may interview a minor to ascertain his or her ability to understand the transaction.
Payments to minors.
[Sec. 321.9(j)] A minor may not request payment of securities if he or she is not of sufficient competency and understanding to comprehend the nature of the act. Because of individual differences in comprehension, the Treasury has not established any rule as to the exact age at which a minor should be able to redeem securities. An agent may interview a minor to ascertain his or her ability to understand the transaction.
10. Responsibilities of paying agents. [Sec. 321.10]
Responsibilities of paying agents.
[Sec. 321.10]
(a) Requirements for redeeming securities. [§ 321.10(a)] A paying agent shall redeem eligible savings securities during its regular business hours for a presenter who establishes his or her identity as the owner or coowner of the securities, in accordance with this part and this appendix. While a paying agent is not required to redeem eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes in exchange for Series HH bonds for any presenter, or Series E, EE, or I bonds or savings notes for cash upon the request of a surviving beneficiary or legal representative, it is encouraged to do so, provided the presenter can establish his/her identity and provide acceptable evidence to accordance with this part and this appendix (See § 321.7 (d) and (f)). An agent is not required to redeem savings securities during Saturday and evening hours if it is open during such periods primarily as a service for its depositors.
Requirements for redeeming securities.
[§ 321.10(a)] A paying agent shall redeem eligible savings securities during its regular business hours for a presenter who establishes his or her identity as the owner or coowner of the securities, in accordance with this part and this appendix. While a paying agent is not required to redeem eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes in exchange for Series HH bonds for any presenter, or Series E, EE, or I bonds or savings notes for cash upon the request of a surviving beneficiary or legal representative, it is encouraged to do so, provided the presenter can establish his/her identity and provide acceptable evidence to accordance with this part and this appendix (See § 321.7 (d) and (f)). An agent is not required to redeem savings securities during Saturday and evening hours if it is open during such periods primarily as a service for its depositors.
(b) Restrictions. [Sec. 321.10(b)] Violation of the regulatory prohibitions on making charges for redeeming securities; on advancing money on, making loans on, or discounting the redemption value of securities; and on deferring presentation of redeemed securities to obtain a larger credit, will be cause for disqualification and recovery of the redemption proceeds and profits realized therefrom.
Restrictions.
[Sec. 321.10(b)] Violation of the regulatory prohibitions on making charges for redeeming securities; on advancing money on, making loans on, or discounting the redemption value of securities; and on deferring presentation of redeemed securities to obtain a larger credit, will be cause for disqualification and recovery of the redemption proceeds and profits realized therefrom.
Subpart D—Payment and Transmittal of Securities
11. Identification of presenter. [Sec. 321.11(b)]
Identification of presenter.
[Sec. 321.11(b)]
(a) Identification guide. [Sec. 321.11(b)] The Treasury Department has issued an identification guide, Form PD 3900, to assist paying agents in redeeming securities. Careful compliance with the instructions contained therein will enable agents to accommodate reasonable redemption requests and protect themselves from losses. Reliance on newly opened customer accounts as identification, or paying more than $1,000 in a single transaction based on documentary evidence alone, should be particularly avoided.
Identification guide.
[Sec. 321.11(b)] The Treasury Department has issued an identification guide, Form PD 3900, to assist paying agents in redeeming securities. Careful compliance with the instructions contained therein will enable agents to accommodate reasonable redemption requests and protect themselves from losses. Reliance on newly opened customer accounts as identification, or paying more than $1,000 in a single transaction based on documentary evidence alone, should be particularly avoided.
(b) Record of identification practice and evidence presented. [Sec. 321.11 (b) through (d)] At the time of payment, the agent should make a notation on the back of the security or in its own records specifying precisely what was relied on to establish the presenter's identity. The identification should be adequate to identify the payee under the circumstances of the transaction. If an agent redeems a security upon the request of a surviving beneficiary or a legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate, it should also make a notation of the evidence presented to establish the payee's entitlement; this might include the document or case number on the death certificate(s) and/or evidence of the legal representative's appointment, the date(s) of death, and the names and locations of the issuing authorities. The notations should be sufficient to permit a determination of the evidence of identity and entitlement at a later date. Otherwise, the agent runs the risk that no evidence can be developed to show that it acted without fault or negligence, in which case it could not be relieved of liability should a loss occur.
12. Request for payment. [Sec. 321.11(d)]
Request for payment.
[Sec. 321.11(d)]
(a) Signature. [Sec. 321.11(e)] Except where an agent qualified under 31 CFR part 330 (Circular No. 888) elects to use the special endorsement procedure, each security redeemed by the agent must bear the signature of the presenter. The name must be signed exactly as it is inscribed on the security, unless the provisions of 31 CFR part 330 and this appendix provide for an exception, such as in cases involving a change of name by marriage, a request by a parent on behalf of a minor, or a legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate. An agent may be held liable if the request for payment is not properly signed. Legal representatives must sign as provided in § 321.7 (e) and (f).
Signature.
[Sec. 321.11(e)] Except where an agent qualified under 31 CFR part 330 (Circular No. 888) elects to use the special endorsement procedure, each security redeemed by the agent must bear the signature of the presenter. The name must be signed exactly as it is inscribed on the security, unless the provisions of 31 CFR part 330 and this appendix provide for an exception, such as in cases involving a change of name by marriage, a request by a parent on behalf of a minor, or a legal representative of the last deceased registrant's estate. An agent may be held liable if the request for payment is not properly signed. Legal representatives must sign as provided in § 321.7 (e) and (f).
(b) Address. [Sec. 321.11(d)] The presenter must enter a current home or business address in the space provided on the back of the security. If a single transaction includes a group of securities, the address must be shown on at least one security of each of the following types: (1) Paper securities issued prior to October 1957; (2) punch card or machine readable paper securities issued prior to January 1989; and (3) machine readable paper securities issued subsequent to December 1988.
Address.
[Sec. 321.11(d)] The presenter must enter a current home or business address in the space provided on the back of the security. If a single transaction includes a group of securities, the address must be shown on at least one security of each of the following types: (1) Paper securities issued prior to October 1957; (2) punch card or machine readable paper securities issued prior to January 1989; and (3) machine readable paper securities issued subsequent to December 1988.
13. Redemption value of securities. [Sec. 321.12]
Redemption value of securities.
[Sec. 321.12]
(a) Redemption value tables. [§ 321.12] The Bureau of the Fiscal Service distributes redemption values in various formats and as parts of programs for personal computers, for: (1) Series E savings bonds, (2) Series EE savings bonds, (3) Series I savings bonds, and (4) savings notes. Additional tables or information may be requested from a TRS Site.
Redemption value tables.
[§ 321.12] The Bureau of the Fiscal Service distributes redemption values in various formats and as parts of programs for personal computers, for: (1) Series E savings bonds, (2) Series EE savings bonds, (3) Series I savings bonds, and (4) savings notes. Additional tables or information may be requested from a TRS Site.
(b) Use of tables. [§ 321.12] Care should be exercised to correctly determine the current redemption value of the security presented for the month in which it is redeemed. Incorrect payments can lead to costly and time-consuming adjustments for the agent, Department of the Treasury, and a TRS Site.
Use of tables.
[§ 321.12] Care should be exercised to correctly determine the current redemption value of the security presented for the month in which it is redeemed. Incorrect payments can lead to costly and time-consuming adjustments for the agent, Department of the Treasury, and a TRS Site.
(c) Cash redemption. [Sec. 321.12] The correct redemption value of securities redeemed by an agent should be paid to the presenter in currency or, upon request, by check payable to the presenter or by credit to his or her account.
Cash redemption.
[Sec. 321.12] The correct redemption value of securities redeemed by an agent should be paid to the presenter in currency or, upon request, by check payable to the presenter or by credit to his or her account.
(d) Redemption-exchange. [§ 321.12] The redemption values of eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for exchange (Series I savings bonds are not eligible for exchange) for Series HH bonds shall be those payable in the month the agent accepts a correctly completed and signed exchange subscription, Fiscal Service Form 3253. The total redemption value of securities presented for exchange in any one transaction must be at least $500. If the redemption value is $500 or an even multiple thereof, Series HH bonds must be requested in that exact amount. If the redemption value exceeds $500, but is not an even multiple of that amount, the presenter may add cash to increase the amount of the subscription to the next higher $500 multiple, or reduce the amount of the subscription to the next lower $500 multiple. The maximum amount which may be added to or refunded in an exchange transaction is $499.99. For example, if the total redemption value of the securities is $4,253.33, the presenter may request no less than $4,000 and no more than $4,500 in Series HH bonds. In the first instance, the agent will pay the presenter $253.33; in the second, it will collect $246.67 when it accepts the exchange subscription.
Redemption-exchange.
[§ 321.12] The redemption values of eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for exchange (Series I savings bonds are not eligible for exchange) for Series HH bonds shall be those payable in the month the agent accepts a correctly completed and signed exchange subscription, Fiscal Service Form 3253. The total redemption value of securities presented for exchange in any one transaction must be at least $500. If the redemption value is $500 or an even multiple thereof, Series HH bonds must be requested in that exact amount. If the redemption value exceeds $500, but is not an even multiple of that amount, the presenter may add cash to increase the amount of the subscription to the next higher $500 multiple, or reduce the amount of the subscription to the next lower $500 multiple. The maximum amount which may be added to or refunded in an exchange transaction is $499.99. For example, if the total redemption value of the securities is $4,253.33, the presenter may request no less than $4,000 and no more than $4,500 in Series HH bonds. In the first instance, the agent will pay the presenter $253.33; in the second, it will collect $246.67 when it accepts the exchange subscription.
14. Cancellation of redeemed securities. [Sec. 321.13]
Cancellation of redeemed securities.
[Sec. 321.13]
(a) Paying agent stamp. [§ 321.13] Each redeemed security must be cancelled by the imprint of a payment stamp. The stamp may not exceed 1
1/8 inches in any dimension and must include the following information in the arrangement shown:
Paying agent stamp.
[§ 321.13] Each redeemed security must be cancelled by the imprint of a payment stamp. The stamp may not exceed 1
1/8
inches in any dimension and must include the following information in the arrangement shown:
Paid $___ (for recording amount paid)
Name, location, and four-digit paying agent code number assigned by a TRS Site (subject to abbreviation and arrangement by a TRS Site) or ABA code number.
Date ___ (for recording actual date of payment).
By ___ (for use by agent in recording initials, or signature, codes, symbols, etc., of the officer or employee who approved or made the payment.)
(b) Procurement of stamps. [§ 321.12] A paying agent may requisition stamps from a TRS Site or purchase its own stamps. Stamps not provided by a TRS Site must conform exactly in size to that prescribed or approved by a TRS Site. To insure legible impressions, stamps should be replaced when worn.
Procurement of stamps.
[§ 321.12] A paying agent may requisition stamps from a TRS Site or purchase its own stamps. Stamps not provided by a TRS Site must conform exactly in size to that prescribed or approved by a TRS Site. To insure legible impressions, stamps should be replaced when worn.
(c) Imprinting payment stamp and recording payment date. [Sec. 321.13] After determining that a security is eligible for payment, the agent should carefully imprint the payment stamp on its face in the open space immediately to the left of, and as close as possible to, the issue date and issuing agent validating data. It is important not to overprint any data on the security, particularly the serial number, since the security will subsequently be microfilmed. No other stamps shall be placed on the face of the security. Care should be taken to record legibly the correct amount, the exact date of redemption, and the signature, initials, or other identification of the agent's employee who approved or made the payment. A dark-colored ink must be used, and care should be taken not to smear the stamp impression or the writing.
Imprinting payment stamp and recording payment date.
[Sec. 321.13] After determining that a security is eligible for payment, the agent should carefully imprint the payment stamp on its face in the open space immediately to the left of, and as close as possible to, the issue date and issuing agent validating data. It is important not to overprint any data on the security, particularly the serial number, since the security will subsequently be microfilmed. No other stamps shall be placed on the face of the security. Care should be taken to record legibly the correct amount, the exact date of redemption, and the signature, initials, or other identification of the agent's employee who approved or made the payment. A dark-colored ink must be used, and care should be taken not to smear the stamp impression or the writing.
(d) Redemption-exchange. [§ 321.13] Eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for redemption-exchange shall be stamped “PAID” in the same manner as securities redeemed for cash, but only when all elements of the transaction have been completed, including the receipt of any additional cash. The exact date of redemption shall also be recorded on the exchange subscription to enable a TRS Site to establish the proper issue date for the Series HH savings bonds. An officer or authorized employee of the agent shall also sign the exchange subscription, in his or her official capacity, and furnish other requested information that identifies the paying agent.
Redemption-exchange.
[§ 321.13] Eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for redemption-exchange shall be stamped “PAID” in the same manner as securities redeemed for cash, but only when all elements of the transaction have been completed, including the receipt of any additional cash. The exact date of redemption shall also be recorded on the exchange subscription to enable a TRS Site to establish the proper issue date for the Series HH savings bonds. An officer or authorized employee of the agent shall also sign the exchange subscription, in his or her official capacity, and furnish other requested information that identifies the paying agent.
(e) MICR-encoding of payment information. [§ 321.13] An agent shall MICR-encode the redemption value in the “Amount” field on the face of each security or arrange to have this service performed by another financial institution. If the agent transmits securities in mixed cash letters, it must also MICR-encode the routing/transit number assigned to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's savings bond activity in the “R/T” field on the face of all pre-October 1957 paper securities and those punch card securities on which it does not already appear. The Bureau's routing/transit number is 000090007. Care should be taken in repairing MICR-encoded items so as not to obliterate any data in surrounding MICR fields or elsewhere on the face of the security.
MICR-encoding of payment information.
[§ 321.13] An agent shall MICR-encode the redemption value in the “Amount” field on the face of each security or arrange to have this service performed by another financial institution. If the agent transmits securities in mixed cash letters, it must also MICR-encode the routing/transit number assigned to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's savings bond activity in the “R/T” field on the face of all pre-October 1957 paper securities and those punch card securities on which it does not already appear. The Bureau's routing/transit number is 000090007. Care should be taken in repairing MICR-encoded items so as not to obliterate any data in surrounding MICR fields or elsewhere on the face of the security.
15. Transmittal of securities to a Federal Reserve Processing Site. [§ 321.14] An agent shall transmit and settle a redeemed security in accordance with the rules and instructions set forth in the Federal Reserve Operating Circular.
Transmittal of securities to a Federal Reserve Processing Site.
[§ 321.14] An agent shall transmit and settle a redeemed security in accordance with the rules and instructions set forth in the Federal Reserve Operating Circular.
16. Record of securities paid. [§§ 321.14 and 321.24] A record of the serial number, amount paid, and any other information necessary to complete the form for an “Application for Relief Due to the Loss, Theft, or Destruction of Paid United States Savings Bonds/Notes” (PD F 2517) must be retained by the agent for each definitive security sent to a Federal Reserve Processing Site. Copies or other records of the front and back of a paper savings bond must be kept confidential, and prints of the bond may be made only with the permission of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or a TRS Site.
Record of securities paid.
[§§ 321.14 and 321.24] A record of the serial number, amount paid, and any other information necessary to complete the form for an “Application for Relief Due to the Loss, Theft, or Destruction of Paid United States Savings Bonds/Notes” (PD F 2517) must be retained by the agent for each definitive security sent to a Federal Reserve Processing Site. Copies or other records of the front and back of a paper savings bond must be kept confidential, and prints of the bond may be made only with the permission of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or a TRS Site.
Subpart E—Losses Resulting from Erroneous Payments [§ 321.16]
17. Report of erroneous payment. Any erroneous payment that comes to the attention of an agent should be reported immediately to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV, as further described in the instructions and guidance issued pursuant to § 321.27.
Report of erroneous payment.
Any erroneous payment that comes to the attention of an agent should be reported immediately to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV, as further described in the instructions and guidance issued pursuant to § 321.27.
18. Notice to agent. [Sec 321.17(a)] The paying agent will be notified if an erroneous payment has occurred. The notice will generally be in writing from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. If an investigation is to be made, the notice will enable the agent to notify its bonding company, assemble pertinent information concerning the transaction for presentation during the investigation, and take any other action it deems appropriate to protect its interest.
Notice to agent.
[Sec 321.17(a)] The paying agent will be notified if an erroneous payment has occurred. The notice will generally be in writing from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. If an investigation is to be made, the notice will enable the agent to notify its bonding company, assemble pertinent information concerning the transaction for presentation during the investigation, and take any other action it deems appropriate to protect its interest.
19. Determination of liability. [Sec. 321.18 and Sec. 321.21]
Determination of liability.
[Sec. 321.18 and Sec. 321.21]
(a) Upon completing the investigation, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will examine the available information and determine whether a paying agent may be relieved of liability for any loss that may have resulted. If the paying agent cannot be relieved of liability, demand will be made upon the paying agent to reimburse the Treasury promptly. Any amount not paid within 30 days following the mailing of the first demand letter is subject to the following charges.
(1) Interest shall accrue from the date the first demand letter is mailed to the date reimbursement is made. The rate of interest to be used will be the current value of funds rate published annually or quarterly in the Federal Register and in effect during the entire period in which the remittance is late.
Federal Register
and in effect during the entire period in which the remittance is late.
(2) Administrative costs shall be assessed as set out in the first demand letter, if reimbursement is not made within 30 days of the date the first demand letter is mailed.
(3) Penalty charges shall be assessed, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717(e), if reimbursement is not made within 120 days of the date the first demand letter is mailed. The penalty charge will accrue and be calculated from 30 days after the date the first demand letter is mailed to the date of reimbursement.
(b) When a paying agent fails, within 120 days of the date the first demand letter is mailed, to make such reimbursement or to submit new evidence sufficient for Fiscal Service to change the determination of liability, by virtue of the paying agent's acceptance of settlement via credits to a Reserve, correspondent, or clearing account with a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, the agent is deemed to have authorized the Federal Reserve Bank to debit the amount due from that account designated or utilized by the agent at the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. An institution, designated by a paying agent to receive settlement on its behalf, in authorizing such paying agent to utilize its Reserve, correspondent, or clearing account on the books at the Federal Reserve Bank shall similarly be deemed to authorize such debits from that account.
(c) Reconsideration of a determination of liability will be made in any case when a paying agent so requests and presents additional evidence and information regarding the transaction.
20. Relief for lack of timely notice. [Sec 321.18] A paying agent will be relieved of liability to the United States for any loss resulting from the erroneous payment of securities where the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, determines that written notice of either liability or potential liability has not been given to the agent within ten years of the date of the erroneous payment.
Relief for lack of timely notice.
[Sec 321.18] A paying agent will be relieved of liability to the United States for any loss resulting from the erroneous payment of securities where the Secretary of the Treasury, or his designee, determines that written notice of either liability or potential liability has not been given to the agent within ten years of the date of the erroneous payment.
Subpart F—Forwarding Items
21. Securities forwarded to a TRS Site for payment. [§ 321.22]
Securities forwarded to a TRS Site for payment.
[§ 321.22]
(a) General. [§ 321.22] Securities presented for cash payment or redemption-exchange that an agent is not authorized to redeem shall be forwarded to a TRS Site, with all required supporting documentation and any necessary payment instructions.
General.
[§ 321.22] Securities presented for cash payment or redemption-exchange that an agent is not authorized to redeem shall be forwarded to a TRS Site, with all required supporting documentation and any necessary payment instructions.
(b) Signature to and certification of request for payment. [Sec 321.22] An agent qualified under part 330 (Circular No. 888) may elect to specially endorse securities for presenters in lieu of requiring completion of the requests for payment. Unless this procedure is used, the presenter must sign the request on each security and the signature must be certified. Before completing the certification, the agent should establish the identity of the presenter. The Treasury's identification guidelines should be followed in view of the potential liability that attaches to such certification.
Signature to and certification of request for payment.
[Sec 321.22] An agent qualified under part 330 (Circular No. 888) may elect to specially endorse securities for presenters in lieu of requiring completion of the requests for payment. Unless this procedure is used, the presenter must sign the request on each security and the signature must be certified. Before completing the certification, the agent should establish the identity of the presenter. The Treasury's identification guidelines should be followed in view of the potential liability that attaches to such certification.
(c) Address and Taxpayer identifying number. [Sec 321.22] In every case, a current address shall be furnished. The presenter's taxpayer identifying number (social security number or employer identification number) shall be provided if it is not included in the inscription.
Address and Taxpayer identifying number.
[Sec 321.22] In every case, a current address shall be furnished. The presenter's taxpayer identifying number (social security number or employer identification number) shall be provided if it is not included in the inscription.
(d) Redemption-exchange. [§ 321.22] For redemption-exchange transactions submitted as forwarding items, the issue date of the Series HH savings bonds will be the first day of the month in which a correctly completed and signed exchange subscription and full payment are received by a TRS Site.
Redemption-exchange.
[§ 321.22] For redemption-exchange transactions submitted as forwarding items, the issue date of the Series HH savings bonds will be the first day of the month in which a correctly completed and signed exchange subscription and full payment are received by a TRS Site.
(e) Partial redemption. [§§ 321.9(l) and 321.22] Partial redemption of a security other than a $25 Series E bond or savings note, a $50 Series EE or I bond, or a $500 Series H or HH bond may be made by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank referred to in § 321.25. The amount paid must be equal to the redemption value of one or more authorized denominations on the date of the transaction. If a security is received by an agent for partial redemption, the words “to the extent of $ (face amount) and reissue of the remainder” should be added to the first sentence of the request for payment. The request should then be completed in the regular manner and the signature of the presenter certified or guaranteed. The security shall be forwarded to a TRS Site.
Partial redemption.
[§§ 321.9(l) and 321.22] Partial redemption of a security other than a $25 Series E bond or savings note, a $50 Series EE or I bond, or a $500 Series H or HH bond may be made by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank referred to in § 321.25. The amount paid must be equal to the redemption value of one or more authorized denominations on the date of the transaction. If a security is received by an agent for partial redemption, the words “to the extent of $ (face amount) and reissue of the remainder” should be added to the first sentence of the request for payment. The request should then be completed in the regular manner and the signature of the presenter certified or guaranteed. The security shall be forwarded to a TRS Site.
Subpart G—Miscellaneous Provisions
22. Fees and charges. [§ 321.23] Service fees are not intended to compensate paying agents for the reporting of interest paid as part of the redemption value of securities as required by Federal Tax Regulations (26 CFR 1.6049-4). Fees may be paid as set out in § 321.23.
Fees and charges.
[§ 321.23] Service fees are not intended to compensate paying agents for the reporting of interest paid as part of the redemption value of securities as required by Federal Tax Regulations (26 CFR 1.6049-4). Fees may be paid as set out in § 321.23.
23. Claims on account of lost securities. [§ 321.24] If a security redeemed by an agent is lost, stolen, or destroyed while in the custody of the agent, or in transit prior to settlement or audit, relief will be considered, provided the security can be identified by serial number. [See paragraph 16 of this appendix regarding the maintenance of records of redeemed securities.] The agent should resubmit a facsimile of the security to obtain settlement in accordance with established procedures. Questions concerning the established procedures should be referred to a TRS Site.
Claims on account of lost securities.
[§ 321.24] If a security redeemed by an agent is lost, stolen, or destroyed while in the custody of the agent, or in transit prior to settlement or audit, relief will be considered, provided the security can be identified by serial number. [See paragraph 16 of this appendix regarding the maintenance of records of redeemed securities.] The agent should resubmit a facsimile of the security to obtain settlement in accordance with established procedures. Questions concerning the established procedures should be referred to a TRS Site.
24. Education savings bond program. [Sec. 321.7(g)]
Education savings bond program.
[Sec. 321.7(g)]
(a) Section 6009 of the Technical Corrections and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988, Public Law 100-647 (see 26 U.S.C. 135), permits taxpayers to exclude all, or a portion, of the interest earned on Series EE savings bonds bearing issue dates on or after January 1, 1990, and on Series I savings bonds from their income under certain conditions. This legislation did not create new savings bond redemption and interest reporting requirements for savings bond paying agents. However, if a bond owner indicates that he or she intends to seek the special tax treatment offered under this program, the paying agent is encouraged to provide assistance by:
(1) Suggesting that he or she read IRS Form 8815 (particularly, the instructions on the form) as well as relevant portions of IRS Publication 17, “Your Federal Income Tax “, and Publication 550, “Investment Income and Expenses,” for detailed information; and
(2) Suggesting that the presenter make a record of eligible bonds redeemed either by using IRS Optional Form 8818, or otherwise.
(b) Bond owners seeking to benefit from the special tax exclusion, available through the savings bond education feature, should be aware of the following basic rules:
(1) Only interest earned on Series EE bonds bearing issue dates on or after January 1, 1990, is eligible for the exclusion of interest income, where the proceeds from the redemption of the bonds are used to pay qualified post-secondary education expenses. Interest received on bonds bearing issue dates prior to January 1, 1990, is not eligible.
(2)(i) The bonds must be registered in the name of a taxpayer as sole owner, or in the name of the taxpayer as co-owner, with the taxpayer's spouse as the other co-owner. Bonds registered in the name of the taxpayer's child, as owner or co-owner, will not qualify for the exclusion. A taxpayer may purchase bonds registered in beneficiary form, i.e., “A payable on death to B”, naming any individual, including a child, as beneficary.
(ii) The bonds must be registered in the name of a taxpayer who has attained the age of 24 years at the time of issue. Generally, a taxpayer must be 24 years of age on or before the first day of the month in which the taxpayer purchases the bond, because savings bonds bear the issue date of the first day of the month in which purchased.
(3) The bond must be redeemed by the owner or co-owner. It may not be transferred to-the educational institution.
(4) If the entire amount of the proceeds of the eligible bonds is less than, or equal to, the qualified post-secondary educational expenses incurred by the owner, his or her spouse, or his or her dependent, all interest received is excludable, subject to the limitations in paragraph (b)(7) of this section. If the amount of the proceeds exceeds such qualified expenses, the excludable portion of the interest will be reduced by a pro rata amount.
(5) Qualified educational expenses are limited to tuition and fees required for the enrollment of, or attendance by, the taxpayer, or the taxpayer's spouse or dependent, at an eligible educational institution. These expenses are calculated net of scholarships, fellowships, employer-provided educational assistance, and other tuition reduction amounts, and must be incurred during the tax year of the redemption of the bonds for which the interest exclusion is claimed.
(6) Eligible educational institutions include those defined in sections 1201(a) and 481(a)(1) (C) and (D) of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as in effect on October 21, 1988, excluding proprietary institutions. Such eligible institutions include post-secondary institutions, and vocational schools that meet the standards for participation in Federal financial aid programs, excluding proprietary institutions. Additional gudiance concerning eligible institutions should be obtained from the Department of Education.
(7)(i) Interest exclusion benefits are based on the modified adjusted gross income of the taxpayer. For taxpayers filing a joint Federal income tax return, the exclusion is gradually decreased for modified adjusted gross income between $60,000 and $90,000. Married taxpayers filing jointly who have modified adjusted gross incomes above $90,000 are ineligible for the exclusion. For single taxpayers and heads of households, the exclusion is gradually decreased for such incomes between $40,000 and $55,000. Single taxpayers with such incomes above $55,000 are ineligible for the exclusion. After 1990, these income limits will be adjusted for inflation.
(ii) Married taxpayers must file a joint return in order to qualify for the exclusion. Married taxpayers filing separate returns will not qualify for the exclusion, regardless of their modified adjusted gross incomes.
(8) The taxpayer is responsible for maintaining adequate records of bond redemption transactions to support claims for the exclusion, in accordance with applicable rules and regulations of the Internal Revenue Service.
(9) The Internal Revenue Service should be consulted for advice concerning the eligibility and tax treatment of bonds for the income exclusion under the educational savings bond program.
25. Payment and retention of definitive securities. [§ 321.25] The definitive security must be presented to the agent in order to receive payment. An agent is prohibited from accepting an image, or other copy or reproduction of the definitive security, for redemption or processing. To ensure that all transactions processed by agents are properly validated, agents must establish and comply with a retention period for definitive securities that are truncated and converted to an electronic image. At a minimum, the agent must retain such definitive securities for a period of thirty calendar days following the date that the agent submitted the electronic image of the paid security to a Federal Reserve Processing Site. Agents may establish longer retention periods for definitive securities at their discretion.
Payment and retention of definitive securities.
[§ 321.25] The definitive security must be presented to the agent in order to receive payment. An agent is prohibited from accepting an image, or other copy or reproduction of the definitive security, for redemption or processing. To ensure that all transactions processed by agents are properly validated, agents must establish and comply with a retention period for definitive securities that are truncated and converted to an electronic image. At a minimum, the agent must retain such definitive securities for a period of thirty calendar days following the date that the agent submitted the electronic image of the paid security to a Federal Reserve Processing Site. Agents may establish longer retention periods for definitive securities at their discretion.
(a) Example: if the agent paid the presenter of a security on May 7, 2012, and submitted the security's electronic image to a Federal Reserve Processing Site on May 11, 2012, then the retention requirements would obligate the agent to retain the definitive security, at a minimum, until June 10, 2012.
(b) During the specified retention period, agents must store the securities under suitably secured conditions that safeguard customer information. Specifically, the securities must be stored in a secured location with physical, procedural, and systemic controls in place to ensure that access to the securities is restricted to authorized personnel and that the securities are protected from loss, theft, destruction, and unauthorized or inadvertent viewing.
(c) At the end of the retention period, agents must destroy the securities in a manner that safeguards customer information. Specifically, securities must be destroyed by burning, mulching, pulping, pulverizing, or shredding beyond recognition and reconstruction.
26. Additional information. [§ 321.26] Requests for additional advice, clarification of the payment regulations or this Appendix, and other matters relating to the actions of a financial institution as paying agent should generally be made to a TRS Site.
Additional information.
[§ 321.26] Requests for additional advice, clarification of the payment regulations or this Appendix, and other matters relating to the actions of a financial institution as paying agent should generally be made to a TRS Site.
[[53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988; 53 FR 39581, Oct. 7, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35397, Aug. 29, 1990; 59 FR 10538, Mar. 4, 1994; 61 FR 37197, July 16, 1996; 63 FR 38042, 38043, July 14, 1998; 68 FR 2666, Jan. 17, 2003; 68 FR 7427, Feb. 14, 2003; 77 FR 16167, Mar. 20, 2012]]

PART 323—DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS

[Authority:80 Stat. 379; sec. 3, 60 Stat. 238, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301, 552, unless otherwise noted.]
Authority:
80 Stat. 379; sec. 3, 60 Stat. 238, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301, 552, unless otherwise noted.
[Source:32 FR 9967, July 7, 1967, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
32 FR 9967, July 7, 1967, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Freedom of Information Act

[Source:89 FR 102741, Dec. 18, 2024, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
89 FR 102741, Dec. 18, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

§ 323.1   Purpose of regulations.

The regulations of this subpart are issued to implement 5 U.S.C. 552(a)-(2) and (3). The requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) are met through the publication in the Federal Register of the statement of the organization, functions and procedures available of the Fiscal Service, including the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, and revisions thereof, and through the publication therein of substantive and procedural regulations of the Bureau. A synopsis of the statements of Bureau organization, functions and procedures available will be published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in the U.S. Government Organization Manual.
Federal Register
of the statement of the organization, functions and procedures available of the Fiscal Service, including the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, and revisions thereof, and through the publication therein of substantive and procedural regulations of the Bureau. A synopsis of the statements of Bureau organization, functions and procedures available will be published annually by the Office of the Federal Register in the U.S. Government Organization Manual.
[[32 FR 9967, July 7, 1967, as amended at 89 FR 102741, Dec. 18, 2024]]

§ 323.2   Rules governing availability of information.

(a) General. The records of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service required by 5 U.S.C. 552 to be made available to the public shall be made available in accordance with the regulations on the Disclosure of Records of the Office of the Secretary issued under 5 U.S.C. 552 and published as part I of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations, 32 FR 9562, July 1, 1967, except as specifically provided in this part.
General.
The records of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service required by 5 U.S.C. 552 to be made available to the public shall be made available in accordance with the regulations on the Disclosure of Records of the Office of the Secretary issued under 5 U.S.C. 552 and published as part I of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations, 32 FR 9562, July 1, 1967, except as specifically provided in this part.
(b) Limitations on the availability of records relating to securities. Records relating to the purchase, ownership of, and transactions in Treasury securities or other securities handled by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for government agencies or wholly or partially Government-owned corporations will ordinarily be disclosed only to the owners of such securities, their executors, administrators or other legal representatives or to their survivors or to investigative and certain other agencies of the Federal and State governments, to trustees in bankruptcy, receivers of insolvents' estates or where a proper order has been entered requesting disclosure of information to Federal and State courts. These records are confidential because they relate to private financial affairs of the owners under this part. In addition, the information falls within the category of “personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy” under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(6). FOIA Exemption (b)(6) protects the privacy of living persons who own securities as well as the close survivors of deceased owners. Privacy interests, in the sense of the right to control, use, or disclose information about oneself, cease at death. However, the exemption protects the deceased person's family-related privacy interests that survive death where disclosure would cause embarrassment, pain, grief, or disrupt the peace of mind, of the surviving family. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will determine, under FOIA exemption (b)(6), whether disclosure of the records is in the public interest by balancing the surviving family members' privacy interest against the public's right to know the information.
Limitations on the availability of records relating to securities.
Records relating to the purchase, ownership of, and transactions in Treasury securities or other securities handled by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for government agencies or wholly or partially Government-owned corporations will ordinarily be disclosed only to the owners of such securities, their executors, administrators or other legal representatives or to their survivors or to investigative and certain other agencies of the Federal and State governments, to trustees in bankruptcy, receivers of insolvents' estates or where a proper order has been entered requesting disclosure of information to Federal and State courts. These records are confidential because they relate to private financial affairs of the owners under this part. In addition, the information falls within the category of “personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy” under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(6). FOIA Exemption (b)(6) protects the privacy of living persons who own securities as well as the close survivors of deceased owners. Privacy interests, in the sense of the right to control, use, or disclose information about oneself, cease at death. However, the exemption protects the deceased person's family-related privacy interests that survive death where disclosure would cause embarrassment, pain, grief, or disrupt the peace of mind, of the surviving family. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will determine, under FOIA exemption (b)(6), whether disclosure of the records is in the public interest by balancing the surviving family members' privacy interest against the public's right to know the information.
[[32 FR 9967, July 7, 1967, as amended at 68 FR 67944, Dec. 5, 2003]]

§ 323.3   Materials available for inspection and copying.

(a) Availability. The materials which are required under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) to be made available for inspection and copying are:
Availability.
The materials which are required under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) to be made available for inspection and copying are:
(1) Final opinions or orders made in the adjudication of cases. Any issued by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service would be in the form of letters or memorandums setting out determinations made in disposing of any matter before the Bureau.
(2) Statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the Bureau but not published in the Federal Register.
Federal Register.
(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to the staff that affect any member of the public. Some Federal Reserve Bank memorandums and Fiscal Service memorandums will be made available under this provision.
(b) Location. The materials listed in paragraph (a) of this section are available for inspection and copy during office hours in the Public Reading Room of the Treasury Department, 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220.
Location.
The materials listed in paragraph (a) of this section are available for inspection and copy during office hours in the Public Reading Room of the Treasury Department, 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220.

§ 323.4   Requests for identifiable records.

(a) Procedure. (1) A written request for an identifiable record relating to a U.S. savings bond or note shall be addressed to the Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Chicago, IL 60605.
Procedure.
(1) A written request for an identifiable record relating to a U.S. savings bond or note shall be addressed to the Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Chicago, IL 60605.
(2) A request for an identifiable record relating to any Treasury Department security, other than a savings bond or note, or a security of a Government agency or a wholly or partially Government-owned corporation, the record of which is maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, shall be addressed to the Chief, Division of Loans and Currency, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226.
(3) A request for an identifiable record relating to any security of a Government agency or wholly or partially Government-owned corporation, the record for which is maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, shall be addressed to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York, NY 10045.
(4) A written request for any identifiable record that the Bureau of the Fiscal Service has other than those set out in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section shall be addressed to the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20220.
(5) A request may be presented in person at the office to which a written request would be addressed.
(b) Determination of availability. Determination as to whether or not a requested record shall be disclosed will be made by the Officer to whom the request should be directed under paragraph (a) of this section, and by the Bureau of Fiscal Service Information Officer for requests directed to the Office of the Commissioner, subject to an appeal to the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service. The decision of the Commissioner shall constitute final agency action unless he refers the appeal to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary, in which case the decision of the Fiscal Assistant Secretary shall constitute final agency action.
Determination of availability.
Determination as to whether or not a requested record shall be disclosed will be made by the Officer to whom the request should be directed under paragraph (a) of this section, and by the Bureau of Fiscal Service Information Officer for requests directed to the Office of the Commissioner, subject to an appeal to the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service. The decision of the Commissioner shall constitute final agency action unless he refers the appeal to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary, in which case the decision of the Fiscal Assistant Secretary shall constitute final agency action.

§ 323.5   Fees.

The fees provided in part 1 of title 31 of the CFR (32 FR 9562, July 1, 1967), shall apply to all requests for identifiable records under this part except as follows:
(a) No charge will be made for verifying the record of a savings bond or note identified by series and denomination and either the registration and issue date or the serial number at the request of the owner, coowner, or surviving beneficiary or person entitled to the security under the applicable regulations.
(b) No charge will be made for verifying the record of a registered Treasury security, other than a savings bond or note, or a registered security of a Government agency or a wholly or partially Government-owned corporation, identified as to loan and registration for an owner, joint owner or person entitled to the security under the applicable regulations.
(c) No charge will be made for advising a person who has submitted satisfactory evidence of ownership as to the status of a bearer Treasury security or a bearer security of a Government agency or a wholly or partially Government-owned corporation.
(d) No charge will be made for furnishing an owner, coowner, joint owner, surviving beneficiary, or person who is entitled to the security under the applicable regulations a photocopy or similar reproduction of any Treasury security, with any necessary supporting documents, which it is alleged was improperly paid or was reissued, transferred or redeemed on a forged or defective request, endorsement, or assignment.
(e) Fees may be waived for other classes of requested records upon a finding by the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service that the person requesting the information is entitled to the record requested without charge.

Subpart B—SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022

[Source:89 FR 102741, Dec. 18, 2024, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
89 FR 102741, Dec. 18, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3105(f).]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3105(f).

§ 323.10   Purpose of this subpart.

The regulations of this subpart are issued to implement section 122 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022, 31 U.S.C. 3105(f). The requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3105(f) are additionally met through the publication of a new Routine Use in the applicable Fiscal Service System of Record Notice.

§ 323.11   Rules governing sharing of applicable savings bond information with States.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Applicable address has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3105(f)(1)(C).
Applicable address
has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3105(f)(1)(C).
Applicable savings bond has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3105(f)(6).
Applicable savings bond
has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3105(f)(6).
Last known address means the full street address, if available, found after a reasonable search of Fiscal Service records.
Last known address
means the full street address, if available, found after a reasonable search of Fiscal Service records.
Name means the full registered name of the owner, co-owner, or beneficiary of an applicable savings bond, as it appears on the savings bond inscription.
Name
means the full registered name of the owner, co-owner, or beneficiary of an applicable savings bond, as it appears on the savings bond inscription.
Record means data or documentation, whether in paper, digital, or other electronic form, containing or composed of information describing any applicable savings bond which has an applicable address within a State, including the name and registered address or last known address of the registered owner, co-owner, or beneficiary, as further defined in 31 U.S.C. 3105(f)(1).
Record
means data or documentation, whether in paper, digital, or other electronic form, containing or composed of information describing any applicable savings bond which has an applicable address within a State, including the name and registered address or last known address of the registered owner, co-owner, or beneficiary, as further defined in 31 U.S.C. 3105(f)(1).
Registered address means the address included in the savings bond inscription.
Registered address
means the address included in the savings bond inscription.
State means the fifty States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State
means the fifty States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(b) Requests for records. Records will be made available to States in compliance with 31 U.S.C. 3105(f) and this subpart, upon request by a State to Fiscal Service. Prior to receiving access to records, each State, through an authorized State representative, must enter into an information-sharing agreement with Fiscal Service using a form that will be provided by Fiscal Service. Such agreements may contain, among other things, requirements that Treasury deems necessary or appropriate to ensure the security of the information.
Requests for records.
Records will be made available to States in compliance with 31 U.S.C. 3105(f) and this subpart, upon request by a State to Fiscal Service. Prior to receiving access to records, each State, through an authorized State representative, must enter into an information-sharing agreement with Fiscal Service using a form that will be provided by Fiscal Service. Such agreements may contain, among other things, requirements that Treasury deems necessary or appropriate to ensure the security of the information.
(c) Use of records. Any records or any information made available to a State under this subpart:
Use of records.
Any records or any information made available to a State under this subpart:
(1) Must be used only for the purpose of locating the owner of an applicable savings bond;
(2) Must not be used to escheat savings bond ownership to a State; and
(3) Must not be released by a State to the public or any third party, unless explicitly approved in writing, in advance, by Treasury.
(d) Liability. Treasury is not liable for any loss, liability, cost, or expense that may result from a State's receipt, use, or distribution of records or any information contained therein. A State receiving records under this subpart shall indemnify Treasury for any loss, liability, cost, or expense associated with the State's receipt, use, or distribution of, or failure to adequately protect, records or any information contained therein.
Liability.
Treasury is not liable for any loss, liability, cost, or expense that may result from a State's receipt, use, or distribution of records or any information contained therein. A State receiving records under this subpart shall indemnify Treasury for any loss, liability, cost, or expense associated with the State's receipt, use, or distribution of, or failure to adequately protect, records or any information contained therein.

§ 323.12   Severability.

The provisions of this subpart are severable, and if any section, subsection, clause, paragraph, or phrase of this subpart shall be adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder of this subpart, but shall be confined in its operation to the section, subsection, clause, paragraph, or phrase directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered, and the remainder of this subpart shall continue to be in force and effect.

PART 328—RESTRICTIVE ENDORSEMENTS OF U.S. BEARER SECURITIES

[Authority:R.S. 3706; 40 Stat. 288, 502, 1309; 46 Stat. 20; 48 Stat. 343; 49 Stat. 20; 56 Stat. 189; 73 Stat. 622; 85 Stat. 5, 74 (31 U.S.C. 738a, 739, 752, 752a, 753, 754, 754a and 754b); and 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
R.S. 3706; 40 Stat. 288, 502, 1309; 46 Stat. 20; 48 Stat. 343; 49 Stat. 20; 56 Stat. 189; 73 Stat. 622; 85 Stat. 5, 74 (31 U.S.C. 738a, 739, 752, 752a, 753, 754, 754a and 754b); and 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:38 FR 10682, Apr. 30, 1973, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
38 FR 10682, Apr. 30, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

§ 328.1   Scope of regulations.

The regulations in this part are applicable only to U.S. bearer securities 
1
 presented:
1
presented:
1 Certain agencies of the United States and certain Government and Government-sponsored corporations also authorize the restrictive endorsement of bearer securities.
1
Certain agencies of the United States and certain Government and Government-sponsored corporations also authorize the restrictive endorsement of bearer securities.
(a) By or through banks for payment at or after their maturity or call date, or in exchange for any securities under any exchange offering,
(b) By banks for conversion to book-entry securities,
(c) By or through banks at any time prior to their maturity or call date for redemption at par and application of the entire proceeds in payment of Federal estate taxes, provided said securities by the terms of their issue are eligible for such redemption, and
(d) By Service Center Directors and District Directors, Internal Revenue Service, for redemption, with the proceeds to be applied in payment of taxes (other than securities presented under paragraph (c) of this section).
These regulations do not apply to bearer securities presented for any other transactions, or to registered securities assigned in blank, or to bearer, or so assigned as to become, in effect, payable to bearer.

§ 328.2   Definitions.

Certain words and terms, as used in these regulations, are defined as follows:
(a) Banks refer to, and include, incorporated banks (i.e., banks doing a general commercial banking business), incorporated trust companies (i.e., trust companies doing either a general banking business or a general trust business), and savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, and such other financial institutions as may be designated by the Federal Reserve banks. This definition is limited to institutions incorporated within the United States, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Canal Zone.
Banks
refer to, and include, incorporated banks (
i.e.
, banks doing a general commercial banking business), incorporated trust companies (
i.e.
, trust companies doing either a general banking business or a general trust business), and savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, and such other financial institutions as may be designated by the Federal Reserve banks. This definition is limited to institutions incorporated within the United States, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Canal Zone.
(b) Bearer securities or securities are those which are payable on their face to bearer, the ownership of which is not recorded. They include Treasury bonds,Treasury notes, Treasury certificates of indebtedness, and Treasury bills.
Bearer securities
or
securities
are those which are payable on their face to
bearer,
the ownership of which is not recorded. They include
Treasury bonds,
Treasury notes, Treasury certificates of indebtedness, and
Treasury bills.

§ 328.3   Authorization for restrictive endorsements.

(a) By banks. Banks are authorized, under the conditions and in the form hereinafter provided, to place restrictive endorsements upon the face of bearer securities owned by themselves or their customers for the purpose of presentation to Federal Reserve banks or branches, or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, as follows:
By banks.
Banks are authorized, under the conditions and in the form hereinafter provided, to place restrictive endorsements upon the face of bearer securities owned by themselves or their customers for the purpose of presentation to Federal Reserve banks or branches, or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, as follows:
(1) For payment or redemption—at any time within 1 calendar month prior to their maturity date, or the date on which they become payable pursuant to a call for redemption, or at any time after their maturity or call date;
(2) For exchange—during any period for their presentation pursuant to an exchange offering;
(3) For redemption at par in payment of Federal estate taxes (only eligible securities)—at any time prior to their maturity or call redemption date; and
(4) For conversion to book-entry securities under subpart O of part 306 of this chapter—at any time prior to their maturity or call redemption date.
(b) By Service Center Directors and District Directors, Internal Revenue Service. Service Center Directors and District Directors, Internal Revenue Service, are authorized, under the conditions and in the form hereinafter provided, to place restrictive endorsements upon the face of bearer securities for the purpose of presentation to Federal Reserve banks or branches, or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, for redemption and application of the proceeds in payment of taxes (other than securities presented for redemption at par and application of the proceeds in payment of Federal estate taxes).
By Service Center Directors and District Directors, Internal Revenue Service.
Service Center Directors and District Directors, Internal Revenue Service, are authorized, under the conditions and in the form hereinafter provided, to place restrictive endorsements upon the face of bearer securities for the purpose of presentation to Federal Reserve banks or branches, or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, for redemption and application of the proceeds in payment of taxes (other than securities presented for redemption at par and application of the proceeds in payment of Federal estate taxes).
(c) Instructions from Federal Reserve banks. Federal Reserve banks will inform eligible banks and Service Center Directors and District Directors, Internal Revenue Service, in their respective districts as to the procedure to be followed under the authority granted by these regulations. Restrictive endorsements shall not be placed on securities until such information is received from the Federal Reserve banks.
Instructions from Federal Reserve banks.
Federal Reserve banks will inform eligible banks and Service Center Directors and District Directors, Internal Revenue Service, in their respective districts as to the procedure to be followed under the authority granted by these regulations. Restrictive endorsements shall not be placed on securities until such information is received from the Federal Reserve banks.

§ 328.4   Effect of restrictive endorsements.

Bearer securities bearing restrictive endorsements as herein provided will thereafter be nonnegotiable and payment, redemption, or exchange will be made only as provided in such endorsements.

§ 328.5   Forms of endorsement.

(a) When presented by banks—(1) For payment or exchange. The endorsement placed on a bearer security presented for payment or exchange by a bank should be in the following form:
When presented by banks
—(1)
For payment or exchange.
The endorsement placed on a bearer security presented for payment or exchange by a bank should be in the following form:
For presentation to the Federal Reserve Bank of __________, Fiscal Agent of the United States, for redemption or in exchange for securities of a new issue, in accordance with written instructions submitted by __________. (Insert name of presenting bank)
(2) For redemption at par. The endorsement placed on a bearer security presented for redemption at par in payment of Federal estate taxes should be in the following form:
For redemption at par.
The endorsement placed on a bearer security presented for redemption at par in payment of Federal estate taxes should be in the following form:
For presentation to the Federal Reserve Bank of ________, Fiscal Agent of the United States, for redemption at par in payment of Federal estate taxes, in accordance with written instructions submitted by ________________. (Insert name of presenting bank)
(b) For conversion to book-entry securities. The endorsement placed on a bearer security presented for conversion to a book-entry security shall be in the following form:
For conversion to book-entry securities.
The endorsement placed on a bearer security presented for conversion to a book-entry security shall be in the following form:
For presentation to the Federal Reserve Bank of _________, Fiscal Agent of the United States, for conversion to book-entry securities by _________. (Insert name of presenting bank)
(c) When presented by Service Center Directors or District Directors, Internal Revenue Service. The endorsement placed on a bearer security by a Service Center Director or a District Director, Internal Revenue Service, should be in the following form:
When presented by Service Center Directors or District Directors, Internal Revenue Service.
The endorsement placed on a bearer security by a Service Center Director or a District Director, Internal Revenue Service, should be in the following form:
For presentation to the Federal Reserve Bank of _______;, Fiscal Agent of the United States, for redemption, the proceeds to be credited to the account of the Service Center Director, Internal Revenue Service, at _____, for credit on the Federal _________ (Income, gifts, or other) taxes due from _________. (Name and address)

§ 328.6   Requirements for endorsement.

(a) On bearer securities. The endorsement must be imprinted in the lefthand portion of the face of each security with the first line thereof parallel to the left edge of the security and in such manner as to be clearly legible and in such position that it will not obscure the serial number, series designation, or other identifying data, and cover the smallest possible portion of the text on the face of the security. The dimensions of the endorsement should be approximately 4 inches in width and 1
1/2 inches in height, and must be imprinted by stamp or plate of such character as will render the endorsement substantially ineradicable. The name of the Federal Reserve bank of the district must appear on the plate or stamp used for the imprinting of the endorsement, and presentation to the appropriate branch of the Federal Reserve bank named will be considered as presentation to the bank. When securities are to be presented to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, the words “United States Treasury” should be used in lieu of the words “Federal Reserve Bank of _______, Fiscal Agent of the United States.” No subsequent endorsement will be recognized. If the form of endorsement on a security is different than that prescribed in § 328.5, the provisions of §§ 328.7 and 328.8 shall not apply to the security.
On bearer securities.
The endorsement must be imprinted in the lefthand portion of the face of each security with the first line thereof parallel to the left edge of the security and in such manner as to be clearly legible and in such position that it will not obscure the serial number, series designation, or other identifying data, and cover the smallest possible portion of the text on the face of the security. The dimensions of the endorsement should be approximately 4 inches in width and 1
1/2
inches in height, and must be imprinted by stamp or plate of such character as will render the endorsement substantially ineradicable. The name of the Federal Reserve bank of the district must appear on the plate or stamp used for the imprinting of the endorsement, and presentation to the appropriate branch of the Federal Reserve bank named will be considered as presentation to the bank. When securities are to be presented to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, the words “United States Treasury” should be used in lieu of the words “Federal Reserve Bank of _______, Fiscal Agent of the United States.” No subsequent endorsement will be recognized. If the form of endorsement on a security is different than that prescribed in § 328.5, the provisions of §§ 328.7 and 328.8 shall not apply to the security.
(b) On coupons. Unmatured coupons attached to restrictively endorsed securities should be canceled by imprinting the prescribed endorsement in such manner that a substantial portion of the endorsement will appear on each such coupon. If any such coupons are missing, deduction of their face amount will be made in cases of redemption, and in cases of exchange, remittance equal to the face amount of the missing coupons must accompany the securities. All matured coupons, including coupons which will mature on or before the date of redemption or exchange (except as otherwise specifically provided in an announcement of an exchange offering), should be detached from securities upon which restrictive endorsements are to be imprinted.
On coupons.
Unmatured coupons attached to restrictively endorsed securities should be canceled by imprinting the prescribed endorsement in such manner that a substantial portion of the endorsement will appear on each such coupon. If any such coupons are missing, deduction of their face amount will be made in cases of redemption, and in cases of exchange, remittance equal to the face amount of the missing coupons must accompany the securities. All matured coupons, including coupons which will mature on or before the date of redemption or exchange (except as otherwise specifically provided in an announcement of an exchange offering), should be detached from securities upon which restrictive endorsements are to be imprinted.

§ 328.7   Shipment of securities.

Securities bearing restrictive endorsements may be shipped, at the risk and expense of the shipper, by registered mail, messenger, armored car service, or express to the Federal Reserve bank of the district in which the presenting bank, the Service Center Director, or the District Director, Internal Revenue Service, is located, or to the appropriate branch of such Federal Reserve bank, shipments to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC, should be made by messenger or armored car.

§ 328.8   Loss, theft, or destruction of securities bearing restrictive endorsements.

(a) General. Relief will be provided on account of securities bearing restrictive endorsements proved to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the owner's application, in the same manner as registered securities which have not been assigned. (See subpart N of the current revision of Department Circular No. 300, the general regulations governing United States securities.) Except for bearer securities submitted for redemption at par in payment of Federal estate taxes, a bank will be considered the owner of securities handled on behalf of customers unless it otherwise requests. The application for relief (Form PD 2211) and instructions will be furnished by the Federal Reserve banks.
General.
Relief will be provided on account of securities bearing restrictive endorsements proved to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the owner's application, in the same manner as registered securities which have not been assigned. (See subpart N of the current revision of Department Circular No. 300, the general regulations governing United States securities.) Except for bearer securities submitted for redemption at par in payment of Federal estate taxes, a bank will be considered the owner of securities handled on behalf of customers unless it otherwise requests. The application for relief (Form PD 2211) and instructions will be furnished by the Federal Reserve banks.
(b) Bond of indemnity. Where securities bearing restrictive endorsements shipped by a bank have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, a bond of indemnity with surety satisfactory to the Secretary of the Treasury will be required from the owner. If such bond is executed by a bank or other corporation, the execution must be authorized by general or special resolution of the board of directors, or other body exercising similar functions under its bylaws. Ordinarily, no surety will be required on a bond executed by a presenting bank. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, however, to require a surety in any case in which he considers such action necessary for the protection of the United States.
Bond of indemnity.
Where securities bearing restrictive endorsements shipped by a bank have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, a bond of indemnity with surety satisfactory to the Secretary of the Treasury will be required from the owner. If such bond is executed by a bank or other corporation, the execution must be authorized by general or special resolution of the board of directors, or other body exercising similar functions under its bylaws. Ordinarily, no surety will be required on a bond executed by a presenting bank. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, however, to require a surety in any case in which he considers such action necessary for the protection of the United States.

§ 328.9   Miscellaneous.

The provisions of this circular are subject to the current revision of Department Circular No. 300. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right at any time to amend, supplement, or withdraw any or all of the provisions of these regulations.

PART 330—REGULATIONS GOVERNING PAYMENT UNDER SPECIAL ENDORSEMENT OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS AND UNITED STATES SAVINGS NOTES (FREEDOM SHARES)

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3105.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3105.
[Source:53 FR 37519, Sept. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
53 FR 37519, Sept. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

§ 330.0   Purpose.

The regulations in this part establish a procedure under which qualified paying agents may specially endorse definitive United States Savings Bonds of certain series and United States Savings Notes (Freedom Shares), and either redeem the securities so endorsed, or forward them to a TRS Site for redemption, with or without the owner's signature to the request for payment.
[[77 FR 16169, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 330.1   Definition of terms.

As used in this part:
Definitive security means a Treasury security held in paper form.
Definitive security
means a Treasury security held in paper form.
Federal Reserve Processing Site means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in 31 CFR part 321, to which the paying agent, or institution acting on its behalf, is instructed to transmit redeemed securities for payment pursuant to the Federal Reserve Operating Circular.
Federal Reserve Processing Site
means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in 31 CFR part 321, to which the paying agent, or institution acting on its behalf, is instructed to transmit redeemed securities for payment pursuant to the Federal Reserve Operating Circular.
Federal Reserve Treasury Retail Securities Site or TRS Site means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in 31 CFR part 321, that is authorized to qualify paying agents, provide customer service, and provide other fiscal agency services under the provisions of this part. See § 330.9.
Federal Reserve Treasury Retail Securities Site
or
TRS Site
means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in 31 CFR part 321, that is authorized to qualify paying agents, provide customer service, and provide other fiscal agency services under the provisions of this part. See § 330.9.
Owner(s) means the person(s) named as registered owner or coowners on a bond or note, or as the designated beneficiary who has succeeded to ownership of the bond or note upon the death of the owner. For the purposes of special endorsement, but not payment, by a qualified agent, the term may also include fiduciaries, corporations, partnerships, associations, and other entities named on a security, where such registration is authorized.
Owner(s)
means the person(s) named as registered owner or coowners on a bond or note, or as the designated beneficiary who has succeeded to ownership of the bond or note upon the death of the owner. For the purposes of special endorsement, but not payment, by a qualified agent, the term may also include fiduciaries, corporations, partnerships, associations, and other entities named on a security, where such registration is authorized.
Paying agent(s) or agent(s) refers to an eligible financial institution qualified under the provisions of this part to specially endorse securities and qualified, under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), to redeem eligible savings bonds and notes. The term includes the branches of a qualified agent that redeem bonds and notes and are themselves directly accountable for such redemptions.
Paying agent(s)
or
agent(s)
refers to an eligible financial institution qualified under the provisions of this part to specially endorse securities and qualified, under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), to redeem eligible savings bonds and notes. The term includes the branches of a qualified agent that redeem bonds and notes and are themselves directly accountable for such redemptions.
Redemption and payment are used interchangeably for payment of a bond or note in accordance with the terms of its offering and the regulations governing it, and include redemption-exchange.
Redemption
and
payment
are used interchangeably for payment of a bond or note in accordance with the terms of its offering and the regulations governing it, and include
redemption-exchange.
Redemption-exchange means any authorized redemption of eligible securities for the purpose of applying the proceeds in payment for other securities offered in exchange by the Treasury.
Redemption-exchange
means any authorized redemption of eligible securities for the purpose of applying the proceeds in payment for other securities offered in exchange by the Treasury.
Savings bond(s) or bond(s) means a definitive United States Savings Bond of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, or I.
Savings bond(s)
or
bond(s)
means a definitive United States Savings Bond of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, or I.
Savings notes(s) or notes(s) means a United States Savings Note (Freedom Share).
Savings notes(s)
or
notes(s)
means a United States Savings Note (Freedom Share).
Security or securities means a savings bond or savings note, as defined in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.
Security
or
securities
means a savings bond or savings note, as defined in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.
Special endorsement means a procedure under which a security is redeemed by an agent, qualified under the provisions of this part, for cash or on redemption-exchange (or forwarded for redemption to a TRS Site), utilizing a special stamp placed on the security in lieu of a request for payment signed by the owner.
Special endorsement
means a procedure under which a security is redeemed by an agent, qualified under the provisions of this part, for cash or on redemption-exchange (or forwarded for redemption to a TRS Site), utilizing a special stamp placed on the security in lieu of a request for payment signed by the owner.
[[53 FR 37519, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 10538, 10539, Mar. 4, 1994; 63 FR 38044, July 14, 1998; 77 FR 16169, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 330.2   Qualification for use of special endorsement.

(a) Application for authority. Any financial institution qualified as a paying agent of savings bonds and notes under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision, may establish its eligibility to employ the special endorsement procedure by executing and submitting the appropriate application-agreement form to the designated Federal Reserve Bank. In executing the form, the agent certifies that, by duly executed resolution of its governing board or committee, it has been authorized to apply for the privilege of paying and processing securities in accordance with the provisions and conditions of this part (Circular No. 888, including all supplements, amendments, and revisions, and any related instructions). If the application is approved, the designated Federal Reserve Bank will issue a certificate of qualification.
Application for authority.
Any financial institution qualified as a paying agent of savings bonds and notes under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision, may establish its eligibility to employ the special endorsement procedure by executing and submitting the appropriate application-agreement form to the designated Federal Reserve Bank. In executing the form, the agent certifies that, by duly executed resolution of its governing board or committee, it has been authorized to apply for the privilege of paying and processing securities in accordance with the provisions and conditions of this part (Circular No. 888, including all supplements, amendments, and revisions, and any related instructions). If the application is approved, the designated Federal Reserve Bank will issue a certificate of qualification.
(b) Agents previously qualified. Paying agents qualified under previous revisions of this part are authorized to continue to act without requalification. They shall, however, be subject to the terms and conditions of the previously executed application and these regulations in the same manner and to the same extent as though they had requalified hereunder.
Agents previously qualified.
Paying agents qualified under previous revisions of this part are authorized to continue to act without requalification. They shall, however, be subject to the terms and conditions of the previously executed application and these regulations in the same manner and to the same extent as though they had requalified hereunder.
(c) Termination of qualification. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to withdraw the special endorsement authority from any paying agent at any time. Such authority will also be terminated at any time at the request of the paying agent. In either event, formal notice of the termination shall be given to the agent in writing by the designated Federal Reserve Bank.
Termination of qualification.
The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to withdraw the special endorsement authority from any paying agent at any time. Such authority will also be terminated at any time at the request of the paying agent. In either event, formal notice of the termination shall be given to the agent in writing by the designated Federal Reserve Bank.
[[53 FR 37519, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 10539, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 330.3   Special endorsement of securities.

(a) Form of endorsement. Each security processed under the provisions of this part shall bear the following endorsement:
Form of endorsement.
Each security processed under the provisions of this part shall bear the following endorsement:
Request by owner and validity of transaction guaranteed in accordance with Treasury Department Circular No. 888, as revised. (Name, location and paying agent code number assigned by a TRS Site.) (Name, location, and paying agent code number assigned by designated Federal Reserve Bank.)
This endorsement must be legibly impressed in black or other dark-colored ink on the back of the security in the space provided for the owner to request payment.
(b) Endorsement stamps. Endorsement stamps may be obtained from a TRS Site or, with its approval, purchased by the agent. Requests for stamps to be furnished or approved by a TRS Site must be made in writing by an officer of the paying agent. Stamps procured by an agent may not exceed a space bounded by 1
3/4 inches vertically and 3 inches horizontally. They must follow exactly the wording prescribed. They may also include space for the transaction date and the initials or signature of the officer or employee authorized to approve the transaction.
Endorsement stamps.
Endorsement stamps may be obtained from a TRS Site or, with its approval, purchased by the agent. Requests for stamps to be furnished or approved by a TRS Site must be made in writing by an officer of the paying agent. Stamps procured by an agent may not exceed a space bounded by 1
3/4
inches vertically and 3 inches horizontally. They must follow exactly the wording prescribed. They may also include space for the transaction date and the initials or signature of the officer or employee authorized to approve the transaction.
(c) Securities registered in coownership or beneficiary form. In the case of securities registered in coownership or beneficiary form, the agent shall indicate which person, whose name is inscribed thereon, requested payment or exchange by encircling in black or other dark-colored ink the name of that person (or both coowners, if the request is joint) in the inscription on the face of the securities.
Securities registered in coownership or beneficiary form.
In the case of securities registered in coownership or beneficiary form, the agent shall indicate which person, whose name is inscribed thereon, requested payment or exchange by encircling in black or other dark-colored ink the name of that person (or both coowners, if the request is joint) in the inscription on the face of the securities.
(d) Restrictions. Under no circumstances shall the special endorsement procedure be used to give effect to a transfer, hypothecation or pledge of a security, or to permit payment to any person other than the owner, coowner, or, where appropriate, beneficiary. Violation of these provisions will be cause for withdrawal of an agent's authority to process securities under the special endorsement procedure, and may involve additional penalties if the circumstances warrant such action.
Restrictions.
Under no circumstances shall the special endorsement procedure be used to give effect to a transfer, hypothecation or pledge of a security, or to permit payment to any person other than the owner, coowner, or, where appropriate, beneficiary. Violation of these provisions will be cause for withdrawal of an agent's authority to process securities under the special endorsement procedure, and may involve additional penalties if the circumstances warrant such action.
[[53 FR 37519, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 10539, Mar. 4, 1994; 77 FR 16169, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 330.4   Guaranty given to the United States.

By the act of paying or submitting to any Federal Reserve Processing Site, any TRS Site, or any Treasury office authorized to redeem securities, a security on which it has affixed the special endorsement, a paying agent shall be deemed to have:
(a) Unconditionally guaranteed to the United States the validity of the transaction, including the identification of the owner and the disposition of the proceeds or the new bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the presenter's instruction;
(b) Assumed complete and unconditional liability to the United States for any loss which may be incurred by the United States as a result of the transaction; and
(c) Unconditionally agreed to make prompt reimbursement for the amount of any loss, upon request of the Department of the Treasury.
[[77 FR 16169, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 330.5   Evidence of owner's or beneficiary's authorization to affix special endorsement.

(a) Form of authorization. The Treasury does not prescribe the form or type of instructions an agent must obtain from each owner, co-owner or beneficiary in order to use the special endorsement procedure. In the case of eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for a redemption-exchange, the owner, coowner or beneficiary authorized to request the exchange (as specified in Circular No. 750, § 321.8(b)), must sign the exchange subscription even though the eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes are specially endorsed.
Form of authorization.
The Treasury does not prescribe the form or type of instructions an agent must obtain from each owner, co-owner or beneficiary in order to use the special endorsement procedure. In the case of eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes presented for a redemption-exchange, the owner, coowner or beneficiary authorized to request the exchange (as specified in Circular No. 750, § 321.8(b)), must sign the exchange subscription even though the eligible Series E and EE savings bonds and savings notes are specially endorsed.
(b) Securities in coownership or beneficiary form. Securities registered in coownership or beneficiary form should be accepted for special endorsement only for immediate payment or exchange. Acceptance of bonds and notes for processing at some future date should be avoided as authority to utilize such endorsement generally expires upon the death of the owner or coowner on whose behalf securities were to be paid. Requests for payment of securities present by the surviving beneficiary must be supported by a certificate of death for the owner named thereon, as required by Circular No. 750, part 321 and the appendix to that part.
Securities in coownership or beneficiary form.
Securities registered in coownership or beneficiary form should be accepted for special endorsement only for immediate payment or exchange. Acceptance of bonds and notes for processing at some future date should be avoided as authority to utilize such endorsement generally expires upon the death of the owner or coowner on whose behalf securities were to be paid. Requests for payment of securities present by the surviving beneficiary must be supported by a certificate of death for the owner named thereon, as required by Circular No. 750, part 321 and the appendix to that part.
(c) Record of authorization. Agents should maintain such records as may be necessary to establish the receipt of, and compliance with, instructions supporting the special endorsement. If the agent elects to make notations on the backs of the securities to serve as a record, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will undertake to produce, on request, photocopies of such securities at any time up to ten years after the redemption date. However, the Bureau does not not assume responsibility for the adequacy of such notations, for the legibility of any photocopy, or for failure to produce a photocopy from its records.
Record of authorization.
Agents should maintain such records as may be necessary to establish the receipt of, and compliance with, instructions supporting the special endorsement. If the agent elects to make notations on the backs of the securities to serve as a record, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will undertake to produce, on request, photocopies of such securities at any time up to ten years after the redemption date. However, the Bureau does not not assume responsibility for the adequacy of such notations, for the legibility of any photocopy, or for failure to produce a photocopy from its records.
[[53 FR 37519, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 63 FR 38044, July 14, 1998]]

§ 330.6   Securities eligible for special endorsement.

(a) General authority. A qualified agent is authorized to affix the special endorsement to:
General authority.
A qualified agent is authorized to affix the special endorsement to:
(1) Savings bonds of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, and I and savings notes to be redeemed for cash; and
(2) Eligible savings bonds of Series E and EE and savings notes to be redeemed in exchange for Series HH bonds under the provisions of Circular No. 2-80 (31 CFR part 352).
(b) Securities which may not be specially endorsed. The special endorsement procedure may not be used in any case in which payment or exchange:
Securities which may not be specially endorsed.
The special endorsement procedure may not be used in any case in which payment or exchange:
(1) Is requested by a parent on behalf of a minor child named on the security, or
(2) Requires documentary evidence, under regulations contained in Circulars Nos. 530 and 3-80 (31 CFR parts 315 and 353, respectively), except as indicated in § 330.5.
(c) Securities owned by nonresident aliens. As securities owned by a nonresident alien individual, or a nonresident foreign corporation, partnership, or association, may be subject to the nonresident alien withholding tax, bonds and notes held or received by an agent for the account of such owners must be forwarded to a TRS Site for redemption, even though the agent may specially endorse the securities.
Securities owned by nonresident aliens.
As securities owned by a nonresident alien individual, or a nonresident foreign corporation, partnership, or association, may be subject to the nonresident alien withholding tax, bonds and notes held or received by an agent for the account of such owners must be forwarded to a TRS Site for redemption, even though the agent may specially endorse the securities.
[[53 FR 37519, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 77 FR 16169, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 330.7   Payment or redemption—exchange by agent.

Specially endorsed securities may be paid in cash or, if they are eligible Series E and EE savings bonds or savings notes, redeemed in exchange for Series HH bonds pursuant to the authority and subject, in all other respects, to the provisions of Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), its appendix, and any other instructions issued under its authority. Each specially endorsed bond or note paid by an agent must have the agent's payment stamp imprinted on its face and show the date and amount paid. Securities so paid should be combined with other securities paid under that Circular and presented for settlement in accordance with 31 CFR part 321.
[[63 FR 38044, July 14, 1998, as amended at 77 FR 16169, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 330.8   Payment or redemption-exchange by a TRS Site.

Specially endorsed securities that an agent is not authorized to redeem for cash or on exchange should be forwarded to a TRS Site in accordance with the instructions set forth in 31 CFR part 321. The transmittals must be accompanied by appropriate instructions governing the transaction and the disposition of the redemption proceeds. The securities must be kept separate from other securities the agent has paid and must be submitted in accordance with instructions issued by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service and/or its fiscal agents.
[[77 FR 16169, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 330.9   Fiscal agents.

Federal Reserve Banks (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) perform services as fiscal agents of the United States. These Federal Reserve Banks shall perform such services in connection with this part as may be requested by the Secretary of the Treasury, or a designee. These Federal Reserve Banks are authorized and directed to perform such duties, including the issuance of supplemental instructions and forms, as may be necessary to fulfill the purposes and requirements of these regulations. The instructions and guidance issued pursuant to § 321.27 set forth each Federal Reserve Bank that has been designated as a Federal Reserve Processing Site or as a TRS Site by the Secretary of the Treasury, or a designee.
[[77 FR 16170, Mar. 20, 2012]]

§ 330.10   Modifications of other circulars.

The provisions of this part shall be considered as amending and supplementing: Department of the Treasury Circulars Nos. 530, 653, and 750 (31 CFR parts 315, 316, and 321, respectively), and Department of the Treasury Circulars, Fiscal Service Series Nos. 1-80, 2-80, 3-80, 3-67, 1-98, and 2-98 (31 CFR parts 351, 352, 353, 342, 359, and 360 respectively), and any revisions thereof or amendments or supplements thereto, and those Circulars are hereby modified to the extent necessary to accord with the provisions of this part.
[[63 FR 38044, July 14, 1998]]

§ 330.11   Supplements, amendments, or revisions.

The Secretary of the Treasury may, at any time, or from time to time, revise, supplement, amend or withdraw, in whole or in part, the provisions of this part.

PART 332—OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES H

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3105 and 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3105 and 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:57 FR 14281, Apr. 17, 1992, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
57 FR 14281, Apr. 17, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

§ 332.1   Offering of bonds.

The Secretary of the Treasury offered for sale to the people of the United States, Unites States Savings Bonds of Series H, hereinafter generally referred to as “Series H bonds” or “bonds”. This offer was terminated on December 31, 1979.

§ 332.2   Description of bonds.

(a) General. Series H bonds bear a facsimile of the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury and of the Seal of the Department of the Treasury. They were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable.
General.
Series H bonds bear a facsimile of the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury and of the Seal of the Department of the Treasury. They were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable.
(b) Denominations and prices. Series H bonds were issued at face (par) amount and were available in denominations of $500, $1,000, $5,000 and $10,000.
Denominations and prices.
Series H bonds were issued at face (par) amount and were available in denominations of $500, $1,000, $5,000 and $10,000.
(c) Inscription and issue. A bond is valid only if an authorized issuing agent received payment therefore and duly inscribed, dated, and imprinted validated indicia on the bond. The face of each bond was to be inscribed as set forth below:
Inscription and issue.
A bond is valid only if an authorized issuing agent received payment therefore and duly inscribed, dated, and imprinted validated indicia on the bond. The face of each bond was to be inscribed as set forth below:
(1) The name, social security account number and address of the owner, and the name of the beneficiary, if any, or the name, social security account number, and address of the first-named coowner and the name of the other coowner. The inscription of the social security number was required for bonds issued on or after January 29, 1963.
(2) The issue date in the upper right-hand portion of the bond; and
(3) The imprint of the agent's validation indicia in the lower right-hand portion to show the date the bond was actually inscribed.

§ 332.3   Governing regulations.

Series H bonds are subject to the regulations of the Department of the Treasury, now or hereafter prescribed, governing United States Savings bonds of Series A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J and K, contained in 31 CFR part 315, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 530, current revisions, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.

§ 332.4   Registration.

Series H bonds were permitted to be registered as set forth in subpart B of 31 CFR part 315, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 530.

§ 332.5   Limitation on holdings.

The amount of Series H bonds, originally issued during any one calendar year, that could be held by any one person, at any one time, computed in accordance with the governing regulations, was limited as follows:
(a) General limitation. From $5,000 to $30,000 depending upon the issue date.
General limitation.
From $5,000 to $30,000 depending upon the issue date.
(b) Special limitation for gifts to exempt organizations under 26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1. $200,000 for bonds received as gifts by an organization which at the time of purchase was an exempt organization under the terms of 26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1.
Special limitation for gifts to exempt organizations under 26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1.
$200,000 for bonds received as gifts by an organization which at the time of purchase was an exempt organization under the terms of 26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1.
(c) Exchange pursuant to 31 CFR part 339. Series H bonds issued in an exchange pursuant to the provisions of 31 CFR part 339, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 1036, were exempt from the annual limitation.
Exchange pursuant to 31 CFR part 339.
Series H bonds issued in an exchange pursuant to the provisions of 31 CFR part 339, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 1036, were exempt from the annual limitation.

§ 332.6   Purchase of bonds.

(a) Issuing agents. Only Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, and the Department of the Treasury were authorized to issue Series H bonds. However, financial institutions were permitted to forward applications for purchase of the bonds to the Federal Reserve Bank of their district. The date of receipt, by the Reserve Bank or the Department of the Treasury, of the application and payment governed the issue date of the bond purchased.
Issuing agents.
Only Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, and the Department of the Treasury were authorized to issue Series H bonds. However, financial institutions were permitted to forward applications for purchase of the bonds to the Federal Reserve Bank of their district. The date of receipt, by the Reserve Bank or the Department of the Treasury, of the application and payment governed the issue date of the bond purchased.
(b) Application for purchase and remittance. (1) The applicant for purchase of Series H Bonds furnished.
Application for purchase and remittance.
(1) The applicant for purchase of Series H Bonds furnished.
(i) Instructions for registration of the bonds to be issued, which must have been in an authorized form;
(ii) The appropriate social security or employer identification number;
(iii) The post office address of the owner or first-named coowner; and
(iv) The address(es) for delivery of the bonds and for mailing checks in payment of interest, if other than that of the owner or first-named coowner.
(2) The application was to be forwarded to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or the Department of the Treasury, accompanied by a remittance to cover the purchase price. Any form of exchange, including personal checks, was acceptable, subject to collection. Checks or other forms of exchange were to be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank or the United States Treasury. Checks payable by endorsement were not acceptable. Any depositary qualified pursuant to 31 CFR part 203, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 92, current revision, was permitted to make payment by credit for bonds applied for on behalf of its customers, up to any amount for which it was qualified in excess of existing deposits, when so notified by the Federal Reserve Bank of its district.

§ 332.7   Delivery of bonds.

Authorized issuing agents delivered Series H bonds, either over-the-counter in person or by mail, at the risk and expense of the United States, to the address given by the purchaser, but only within the United States, its territories and possessions, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. No mail deliveries elsewhere were made. If purchased by citizens of the United States temporarily residing abroad, the bonds were delivered at such address in the United States as the purchaser directed.

§ 332.8   Extended terms and yield for outstanding bonds.

(a) Extended maturity period—(1) General. The terms extended maturity period, and second extended maturity period, when used herein, refer to 10-year intervals after the original maturity dates during which owners may retain their bonds and continue to earn interest thereon. No special action is required of owners desiring to take advantage of any extensions heretofore or herein granted.
Extended maturity period
—(1)
General.
The terms
extended maturity period,
and
second extended maturity period,
when used herein, refer to 10-year intervals after the original maturity dates during which owners may retain their bonds and continue to earn interest thereon. No special action is required of owners desiring to take advantage of any extensions heretofore or herein granted.
(2) Two extensions. All Series H bonds may be retained for two extended maturity periods of 10 years each. All Series H bonds cease to earn interest upon reaching final maturity. Final maturities are shown below:
Two extensions.
All Series H bonds may be retained for two extended maturity periods of 10 years each. All Series H bonds cease to earn interest upon reaching final maturity. Final maturities are shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of
Life of bonds
Final maturity dates—1st day of
yrs.
mos.
Jun. 1952-Jan. 1957
29
8
Feb. 1982-Sep. 1986.
Feb. 1957-Dec. 1979
30
Feb. 1987-Dec. 2009.
(b) Investment yields for outstanding bonds—General—interest rates. The investment yields on outstanding Series H bonds are as set out below:
Investment yields for outstanding bonds—General—interest rates.
The investment yields on outstanding Series H bonds are as set out below:
(1) For Series H bonds that were in original or extended maturity periods prior to November 1, 1982, the investment yield was 8.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually, effective for the period from the first semiannual interest payment date occurring on or after May 1, 1981, through the end of such periods. For bonds that entered extensions, see paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(4) of this section.
(2) For Series H bonds that entered extended maturity periods from November 1, 1982, through October 1, 1986, the investment yield was 7.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually, for such periods, including bonds that entered into an extended maturity period, as shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
Entered—1st day of
Nov. 1962-Oct. 1966
2nd (final)
Nov. 1982-Oct. 1986.
Nov. 1972-Oct. 1976
1st
Nov. 1982-Oct. 1986.
(3) For Series H bonds that entered extended maturity periods from November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993, the investment yield was 6 percent per annum, paid semiannually, for such periods, including bonds that entered into an extended maturity period, as shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
Entered—1st day of
Nov. 1966-Feb. 1973
2nd (final)
Nov. 1986-Feb. 1993.
Nov. 1976-Dec. 1979
1st
Nov. 1986-Dec. 1989.
(4) For Series H bonds that entered or enter extended maturity periods on or after March 1, 1993, the guaranteed minimum investment yield is 4 percent per annum, paid semiannually, or the investment yield in effect at the beginning of such periods, including bonds that enter into an extended maturity period, as shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
Entered—1st day of
Mar. 1973-Dec. 1979
2nd (final)
Mar. 1993-Dec. 1999.
(c) Tables of interest payments and investment yields. Tables of interest payments and investment yields are available from the Bureau of Fiscal Service and Federal Reserve Banks and Branches.
Tables of interest payments and investment yields.
Tables of interest payments and investment yields are available from the Bureau of Fiscal Service and Federal Reserve Banks and Branches.
[[57 FR 14281, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 60937, Nov. 18, 1993]]

§ 332.9   Taxation.

The income derived from Series H bonds is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The bonds are subject to estate, inheritance, gift, or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all other taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, or any of the possessions of the United States, or by any local taxing authority.

§ 332.10   Payment or redemption.

A Series H bond became eligible for redemption at par at any time after six months from its issue date. To be redeemed, the bond must be presented and surrendered, with a duly executed request for payment, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch referred to in § 332.12, or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328. In any case where bonds are surrendered for redemption in the month prior to an interest payment date, redemption will not be deferred but will be made in regular course, unless the presenter specifically requests that the transaction be delayed until that date. A request to defer redemption made more than one month preceding the interest payment date will not be accepted.
[[57 FR 14281, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 10539, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 332.11   Reservation as to issue of bonds.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserved the right to reject any application for Series H bonds, in whole or part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued hereunder any such bonds in any case or any class or classes of cases, if such action was deemed to be in the public interest. Any action in any such respect was final.

§ 332.12   Fiscal agents.

(a) Federal Reserve Banks and Branches referred to below, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury, or his or her delegate, in connection with the reissue, redemption and payment of Series H bonds.
(b)(1) The following Federal Reserve Offices have been designated to provide savings bond services:
Servicing office
Reserve districts served
Geographic area served
Federal Reserve Bank, Buffalo Branch, P.O. Box 961, Buffalo, NY 14240
New York, Boston
CT, MA, ME, NH, NJ (northern half), NY (City & State), RI, VT, Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands.
Federal Reserve Bank, Pittsburgh Branch, P.O. Box 867, Pittsburgh, PA 15230
Cleveland, Philadelphia
DE, KY, (eastern half), NJ (southern half), OH, PA, WV (northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, P.O. Box 27622, Richmond, VA 23261
Richmond, Atlanta
AL, DC, FL, LA (southern half), MD, MS (southern half), NC, SC, TN (eastern half), VA, WV (except northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 250 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55480
Minneapolis, Chicago
IA, IL (northern half), IN (northern half), MN, MT, ND, SD, WI.
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 925 Grand Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64198
Dallas, San Francisco, Kansas City, St. Louis
AK, AR, AZ, CA, CO, HI, ID, IL (southern half), IN (southern half), KS, KY (western half), LA (northern half), MO, MS (northern half), NE, NM, NV, OK, OR, TN (western half), TX, WA, WY, UT and GU.
(2) Until March 1, 1996, other Federal Reserve Offices may continue to provide some savings bond services, but such services will be phased out over the period prior to that date.
[[59 FR 10539, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 332.13   Reservation as to terms of offering.

The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this offering of bonds, or of any amendments or supplements thereto.

PART 337—SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS GOVERNING FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION DEBENTURES

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; Sec. 516, Pub. L. 102-550, 106 Stat. 3790.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; Sec. 516, Pub. L. 102-550, 106 Stat. 3790.
[Source:59 FR 42162, Aug. 17, 1994, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
59 FR 42162, Aug. 17, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

§ 337.0   Scope of regulations.

The United States Department of the Treasury is the agent of the Federal Housing Administration for transactions in any debentures which have been or may be issued pursuant to the authority conferred by the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1701 et seq., as amended from time to time, including Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund Debentures, Housing Insurance Fund Debentures, War Housing Insurance Fund Debentures, Military Housing Insurance Fund Debentures, and National Defense Housing Insurance Fund Debentures. In accordance with the regulations adopted by the Federal Housing Commissioner and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, such transactions are governed by regulations of the Department of the Treasury, so far as applicable. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Office of Fiscal Service Accounting operates the FHA debenture computer system and performs the day-to-day operations and transactions relating to the debentures.
et seq.,
as amended from time to time, including Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund Debentures, Housing Insurance Fund Debentures, War Housing Insurance Fund Debentures, Military Housing Insurance Fund Debentures, and National Defense Housing Insurance Fund Debentures. In accordance with the regulations adopted by the Federal Housing Commissioner and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, such transactions are governed by regulations of the Department of the Treasury, so far as applicable. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Office of Fiscal Service Accounting operates the FHA debenture computer system and performs the day-to-day operations and transactions relating to the debentures.
[[66 FR 56432, Nov. 8, 2001]]

Subpart A—Certificated Debentures


§ 337.1   Applicability of Treasury regulations.

The general regulations governing United States securities, part 306 of this chapter, apply, as the regulations for similar transactions and operations in certificated debentures. To the extent that the provisions in this part differ from the provisions in part 306, the provisions in this part shall prevail.

§ 337.2   Transportation charges and risks.

Debentures presented for redemption at call or maturity, or for authorized prior purchase, or for conversion to book-entry form, must be delivered at the expense and risk of the holder. Debentures bearing restricted assignments may be forwarded by registered mail, but for the owner's protection debentures bearing unrestricted assignments should be forwarded by insured registered mail.
[[66 FR 56432, Nov. 8, 2001]]

§ 337.3   Termination of transfers and denominational exchange transactions.

Debentures, which by their terms are subject to call, may be called for redemption, in whole or in part, at par and accrued interest, on any interest date on three months' notice. No transfers or denominational exchanges in certificated debentures covered by a given call will be made on the books of the Department of the Treasury on or after the announcement of such call. However, this does not affect the right of a holder of such debenture to sell and assign it on or after the announcement of the call date.

§ 337.4   Presentation and surrender.

(a) For redemption. To facilitate the redemption of called or maturing debentures, they may be presented and surrendered in the manner prescribed in this section in advance of the call or maturity date, as the case may be. Early presentation by holders will insure prompt payment of principal and interest when due. The debentures must first be assigned by the registered payee or his assignee, or by his duly constituted representative, if required, in the form and manner indicated in § 337.5, and must then be submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service at the address given in § 337.14, accompanied by appropriate written advice. A transmittal advice for this purpose will accompany the notice of call.
For redemption.
To facilitate the redemption of called or maturing debentures, they may be presented and surrendered in the manner prescribed in this section in advance of the call or maturity date, as the case may be. Early presentation by holders will insure prompt payment of principal and interest when due. The debentures must first be assigned by the registered payee or his assignee, or by his duly constituted representative, if required, in the form and manner indicated in § 337.5, and must then be submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service at the address given in § 337.14, accompanied by appropriate written advice. A transmittal advice for this purpose will accompany the notice of call.
(b) For purchase. Debentures, the purchase of which has been authorized prior to call or maturity, may be assigned as instructed in paragraph (a) of this section and immediately submitted in accordance with procedures prescribed by HUD for this purpose.
For purchase.
Debentures, the purchase of which has been authorized prior to call or maturity, may be assigned as instructed in paragraph (a) of this section and immediately submitted in accordance with procedures prescribed by HUD for this purpose.
[[59 FR 42162, Aug. 17, 1994, as amended at 66 FR 56432, Nov. 8, 2001]]

§ 337.5   Assignments.

(a) If the registered payee, or an assignee holding a certificated debenture under proper assignment from the registered payee, desires that payment be made to such payee or assignee, the debenture need not be assigned. If the owner desires for any reason that payment be made to another, without intermediate assignment, the debentures should be assigned to “The Federal Housing Commissioner for redemption (or, purchase) for the account of ____,” inserting the name and address of the person to whom payment is to be made. Proof of the authority of the individual assigning on behalf of an owner will be required in accordance with part 306 of this chapter.
(b) An assignment in blank or other assignment having similar effect will be recognized, but in that event the debenture would be, in effect, payable to bearer, and payment will be made in accordance with the instructions received from the person surrendering the debenture for redemption or purchase. For the owner's protection, such assignments should be avoided unless the owner is willing to lose the protection afforded by registration.
(c) Debentures submitted for conversion to book-entry form should be assigned to “The Federal Housing Commissioner for conversion to book-entry debentures for the account of ____.” The registration on the book-entry account and/or the account number in which the debentures should be deposited should be indicated.
(d) All assignments must be made on the debentures themselves unless otherwise authorized by the Department of Treasury.

§ 337.6   Conversions to book-entry.

Upon implementation of the book-entry debenture system, to be announced in advance by separate public notice, all new debentures will be issued only in book-entry form, and may not thereafter be converted to certificated form.
Certificated debentures may, upon the owner's request in accordance with § 337.5(c), be converted to book-entry. If such action is taken, the owner shall be deemed to have irrevocably waived the right to hold such debenture in certificated form.

§ 337.7   Servicing transactions.

Upon implementation of the book-entry debenture system, to be announced in advance by separate public notice, any transfer or denominational exchange of certificated debentures generally will be made in book-entry form. If certificated debentures are desired, the owner should so request in writing, before the book-entry debentures are issued.

§ 337.8   Payment of mortgage insurance premiums.

When certificated debentures are tendered for purchase prior to maturity in order that the proceeds thereof be applied to pay for mortgage insurance premiums, any difference between the amount of the debentures purchased and the amount of the mortgage insurance premium will generally be issued to the owner in the form of a book-entry debenture in the exact amount of such difference, provided it is one dollar ($1.00) or more. However, if the owner so requests, such difference will be settled with certificated debenture(s), together with a cash adjustment, if any. Such request should be made in writing, before the book-entry debenture in the amount of the difference is issued.

§ 337.9   Payment of final interest.

Final interest on any debenture, whether purchased prior to or redeemed on or after the call or the maturity date, will be paid with the principal. In all cases the payment of principal and final interest will be mailed or directed to the payment address given in the form of advice accompanying the debenture surrendered.

§ 337.10   Payments.

Payments on certificated debentures will be made by fiscal agency check in accordance with part 355 of this chapter, or, upon request, by direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) in accordance with part 370 of this chapter. Information as to the deposit account at the financial institution designated to receive a direct deposit payment shall be provided on the appropriate form(s) designated by the Department.

Subpart B—Book-Entry Debentures


§ 337.11   Original issue and conversions.

Upon implementation of the book-entry debenture system, to be announced in advance by separate public notice, all new debentures will be issued only in book-entry form in the exact amount payable to the owner. Once issued in book-entry form, a debenture may not be converted to certificated form.

§ 337.12   Applicability of TREASURY DIRECT regulations.

The regulations governing the TREASURY DIRECT Book-Entry Securities System (TREASURY DIRECT) (part 357 of this chapter) apply to govern transactions in FHA book-entry debentures, with the following exceptions:
(a) Securities account. (See § 357.20 of this chapter.) An account in the book-entry debenture system may be established by the Department of the Treasury upon receipt of the request that a new debenture be issued or that a certificated debenture be converted to book-entry form. The statement of account shall contain information regarding the account as of the date of such statement. It will include a unique account number, but will not include price information.
Securities account.
(See § 357.20 of this chapter.) An account in the book-entry debenture system may be established by the Department of the Treasury upon receipt of the request that a new debenture be issued or that a certificated debenture be converted to book-entry form. The statement of account shall contain information regarding the account as of the date of such statement. It will include a unique account number, but will not include price information.
(b) Transfers. (See § 357.22 of this chapter.) A book-entry debenture may be transferred only between accounts established in the FHA book-entry debenture system.
Transfers.
(See § 357.22 of this chapter.) A book-entry debenture may be transferred only between accounts established in the FHA book-entry debenture system.
(c) Debentures announced for call. Debentures, which by their terms are subject to call, may be called for redemption, in whole or in part, at par and accrued interest, on any interest date on three months' notice. For purposes of a transaction request affecting ownership and/or payment instructions with respect to a debenture announced for call, a proper request must be received not less than twenty (20) calendar days preceding the next payment date. If the twentieth day preceding a payment date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the last day set for the receipt of a transaction request will be the last business day preceding that date. If a transaction request is received less than twenty (20) calendar days preceding a payment date, the Department may, in its discretion, act on such request if sufficient time remains for processing. If a transaction request is received too late for completion of the requested transaction, principal and final interest on the called debentures will be paid to the owner of record and sent to the payment address of record.
Debentures announced for call.
Debentures, which by their terms are subject to call, may be called for redemption, in whole or in part, at par and accrued interest, on any interest date on three months' notice. For purposes of a transaction request affecting ownership and/or payment instructions with respect to a debenture announced for call, a proper request must be received not less than twenty (20) calendar days preceding the next payment date. If the twentieth day preceding a payment date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the last day set for the receipt of a transaction request will be the last business day preceding that date. If a transaction request is received less than twenty (20) calendar days preceding a payment date, the Department may, in its discretion, act on such request if sufficient time remains for processing. If a transaction request is received too late for completion of the requested transaction, principal and final interest on the called debentures will be paid to the owner of record and sent to the payment address of record.
(d) Payments. (See § 357.26 of this chapter.) Direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) payments with respect to debentures, e.g., principal, interest and cash adjustments, will be made without prenotification messages.
Payments.
(See § 357.26 of this chapter.) Direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) payments with respect to debentures, e.g., principal, interest and cash adjustments, will be made without prenotification messages.

§ 337.13   Payment of mortgage insurance premiums.

When book-entry debentures are being purchased prior to maturity to pay for mortgage insurance premiums, the difference between the amount of the debentures purchased and the mortgage insurance premiums shall be issued to the owner in the form of a book-entry debenture in the exact amount of such difference, provided it is one dollar ($1.00) or more.

Subpart C—Additional Information


§ 337.14   Address for further information.

Further information regarding the issuance of, transactions in, and redemption of, FHA debentures may be obtained from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Office of Fiscal Service Accounting, 200 Third Street, P.O. Box 396, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26102-0396.
[[66 FR 56432, Nov. 8, 2001]]

§ 337.15   General provisions.

As fiscal agents of the United States, Federal Reserve Banks are authorized to perform any necessary acts under this part. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time or from time to time prescribe supplemental and amendatory regulations governing the matters covered by this part, notice of which shall be communicated promptly to the registered owners of the debentures.
[[66 FR 56432, Nov. 8, 2001]]

PART 339—EXCHANGE OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES H

[Authority:Secs. 18, 20, and 22 of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended (40 Stat. 1309, 48 Stat. 343, 49 Stat. 21, 73 Stat. 621, all as amended; 31 U.S.C. 753, 754b, 757c), and 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
Secs. 18, 20, and 22 of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended (40 Stat. 1309, 48 Stat. 343, 49 Stat. 21, 73 Stat. 621, all as amended; 31 U.S.C. 753, 754b, 757c), and 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:36 FR 23856, Dec. 15, 1971, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
36 FR 23856, Dec. 15, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

§ 339.0   Offering of Series H bonds in exchange for Series E bonds and savings notes.

The Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to the authority of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, hereby offers to the people of the United States, U.S. Savings Bonds of Series H in exchange for outstanding U.S. Savings Bonds of Series E and U.S. Savings Notes (freedom shares) without regard to the annual limitation on holdings for the Series H bonds. The Series H bonds offered hereunder are those described in Department Circular No. 905, current revision, except as otherwise specifically provided herein. This offering will continue until terminated by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Editorial Note:
The sale of U.S. Savings Bonds, Series H, was terminated at the close of business Dec. 31, 1979. See 44 FR 77158, Dec. 31, 1979.

§ 339.1   Definitions of words and terms as used in this circular.

Unless the context otherwise requires or indicates:
(a) Securities mean outstanding U.S. Savings Bonds of Series E and U.S. Savings Notes (freedom shares).
Securities
mean outstanding U.S. Savings Bonds of Series E and U.S. Savings Notes (freedom shares).
(b) Owner means an owner of securities, except a commercial bank in its own right (as distinguished from a representative or fiduciary capacity) and a nonresident alien who is a resident of an area with respect to which the Treasury Department restricts or regulates delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof. The term includes a registered owner, whether or not a natural person, either coowner (but only the principal coowner if Series H bonds are requested in a form of registration different from that on the securities submitted), a surviving beneficiary, or any other person who would be entitled to reissue under the regulation governing U.S. Savings Bonds, 
1
 such as, but not limited to, any person entitled to succeed to the estate of a deceased owner.
Owner
means an owner of securities, except a commercial bank in its own right (as distinguished from a representative or fiduciary capacity) and a nonresident alien who is a resident of an area with respect to which the Treasury Department restricts or regulates delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof. The term includes a registered owner, whether or not a natural person, either coowner (but only the
principal coowner
if Series H bonds are requested in a form of registration different from that on the securities submitted), a surviving beneficiary, or any other person who would be entitled to reissue under the regulation governing U.S. Savings Bonds,
1
such as, but not limited to, any person entitled to succeed to the estate of a deceased owner.
1 Department Circular No. 530, current revision (31 CFR part 315). Copies may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20220.
1
Department Circular No. 530, current revision (31 CFR part 315). Copies may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Commercial bank means a bank accepting demand deposits.
Commercial bank
means a bank accepting demand deposits.
(d) Interest means the increment in value on Series E savings bonds and on savings notes.
Interest
means the increment in value on Series E savings bonds and on savings notes.
(e) Principal coowner means a coowner who purchased the securities submitted for exchange with his own funds or received them as a gift, legacy or inheritance or as a result of judicial proceedings and had them reissued in coownership form, provided he has received no contribution in money or money's worth from the other coowner for designating him on the securities.
Principal coowner
means a coowner who purchased the securities submitted for exchange with his own funds or received them as a gift, legacy or inheritance or as a result of judicial proceedings and had them reissued in coownership form, provided he has received no contribution in money or money's worth from the other coowner for designating him on the securities.

§ 339.2   Denominations.

Series H bonds, available for use hereunder, are in denominations of $500, $1,000, $5,000 and $10,000.

§ 339.3   Exchanges with privilege of deferring reporting of interest for Federal income tax purposes.

(a) Tax-deferred exchanges. Pursuant to the provisions of section 1037(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the Secretary of the Treasury hereby grants to owners who have not been reporting the interest on their securities on an accrual basis for Federal income tax purposes the privilege of exchanging such securities for Series H bonds and of continuing to defer reporting of the interest on the securities exchanged (except interest referred to in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) for Federal income tax purposes to the taxable year in which the Series H bonds received in exchange are disposed of, are redeemed, or have reached final maturity, whichever is earlier. 
2
Tax-deferred exchanges.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 1037(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the Secretary of the Treasury hereby grants to owners who have not been reporting the interest on their securities on an accrual basis for Federal income tax purposes the privilege of exchanging such securities for Series H bonds and of continuing to defer reporting of the interest on the securities exchanged (except interest referred to in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) for Federal income tax purposes to the taxable year in which the Series H bonds received in exchange are disposed of, are redeemed, or have reached final maturity, whichever is earlier.
2
2 The interest paid semiannually by check on all Series H bonds, whether issued in exchange under this or any other section, or otherwise, is subject to the Federal income tax for the taxable year in which it is received.
2
The interest paid semiannually by check on all Series H bonds, whether issued in exchange under this or any other section, or otherwise, is subject to the Federal income tax for the taxable year in which it is received.
(b) Rules governing the exchange. (1) Exchange subscription Form PD 3253, completed and executed in accordance with the instructions thereon, the securities, any cash difference (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section), and any supporting evidence which may be required under the governing regulations 
3
 may be presented or forwarded to any authorized agency. 
4
Rules governing the exchange.
(1) Exchange subscription Form PD 3253, completed and executed in accordance with the instructions thereon, the securities, any cash difference (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section), and any supporting evidence which may be required under the governing regulations
3
may be presented or forwarded to any authorized agency.
4
3 For example, a beneficiary named on Series E bonds would have to submit proof of the death of the registered owner in order to exchange such bonds for Series H bonds.
3
For example, a beneficiary named on Series E bonds would have to submit proof of the death of the registered owner in order to exchange such bonds for Series H bonds.
4 Agents authorized to pay Series E bonds and savings notes are authorized to accept and handle exchange subscriptions submitted by natural persons whose names are inscribed on the face of the bonds and notes as owners or coowners in their own right. However, as agents of subscribers they may forward any exchange subscription to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226, for acceptance and handling.
4
Agents authorized to pay Series E bonds and savings notes are authorized to accept and handle exchange subscriptions submitted by natural persons whose names are inscribed on the face of the bonds and notes as owners or coowners in their own right. However, as agents of subscribers they may forward any exchange subscription to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226, for acceptance and handling.
(2) A Series H bond issued upon exchange will be registered in the name of the owner of the securities submitted in any authorized form of registration. However, the principal coowner must be named as owner or coowner.
principal coowner
must be named as owner or coowner.
(3) The total current redemption value of the securities submitted for exchange in any one transaction must amount to $500 or more. If the total current redemption value is in an even multiple of $500, Series H bonds must be requested in that exact amount. If the total current redemption value exceeds $500, but is not in an even multiple of $500, the owner has the option of furnishing cash necessary to obtain Series H bonds of the next higher $500 multiple, or of receiving payment of the difference between the total current redemption value and the next lower multiple of $500. For example, under the rules prescribed in this circular, if the securities submitted for exchange in one transaction total $4,253.33 current redemption value, the owner may elect to:
(i) Receive $4,000 in Series H bonds and the amount of the difference, $253.33, or
(ii) Pay the difference, $246.67, necessary to obtain $4,500 in Series H bonds. 
5
5
5 If a paying agent accepts a subscription solely for the purpose of forwarding it, or if the owner forwards it direct, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, the remittance for the difference, by check or other form of exchange (which will be accepted subject to collection), must be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank or the United States Treasury, as the case may be. The remittance must accompany the subscription and the securities to be exchanged.
5
If a paying agent accepts a subscription solely for the purpose of forwarding it, or if the owner forwards it direct, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, the remittance for the difference, by check or other form of exchange (which will be accepted subject to collection), must be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank or the United States Treasury, as the case may be. The remittance must accompany the subscription and the securities to be exchanged.
(4) Any amount paid to the owner as a cash adjustment (as in paragraph (3)(i) of this section) must be treated as income for Federal income tax purposes for the year in which it is received up to an amount not in excess of the total interest on the securities exchanged. 
6
6
6 The amount, if any, paid to the owner in excess of the interest is a repayment on account of the purchase price of the securities exchanged, not income.
6
The amount, if any, paid to the owner in excess of the interest is a repayment on account of the purchase price of the securities exchanged, not income.
(5) Each Series H bond issued under this section will be stamped “EX” or “EXCH” to show that it was issued upon exchange. Each bond also will bear a legend showing how much of its issue price represents interest on the securities exchanged. This interest must be treated as income for Federal income tax purposes for the year in which the Series H bond is redeemed, is disposed of, or finally matures, whichever is earlier.
(6) The Series H bonds will be dated as of the first day of the month in which the securities, the exchange subscription, any necessary cash difference and supporting evidence, if any, are accepted for exchange by an authorized agency.

§ 339.4   Exchanges without tax deferral.

Exchanges by owners who:
(a) Report the interest on all of their securities annually for Federal income tax purposes, or
(b) Who elect to report all such interest in the year of the exchange, or
(c) Who are tax-exempt under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and the regulations issued thereunder,
Will be handled in the same manner and will be governed by the rules prescribed for exchanges under § 339.3. However, the Series H bonds will not bear the legend referred to in § 339.3(b)(5). Any part of the cash adjustment received which represents interest previously reported for Federal income tax purposes need not be accounted for. The Series H bonds may be registered in the name of the owner of the securities submitted in exchange in any authorized form of registration.

§ 339.5   Governing regulations.

All Series H bonds issued under this circular are subject to the regulations, now or hereafter prescribed, contained in Department Circular No. 530, current revision (part 315 of this chapter).

§ 339.6   Fiscal agents.

Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them in connection with exchanges under these regulations.

§ 339.7   Preservation of rights.

The provisions of Treasury Department Circulars Nos. 530, 653, and 905, as currently revised, are hereby modified and amended to the extent that they are not in accordance with this circular. However, nothing contained herein shall limit or restrict rights which owners of Series H bonds received in earlier exchanges have heretofore acquired.

§ 339.8   Reservation as to terms of offer.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to reject any exchange subscription for Series H bonds, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued hereunder any such bonds in any case or any class or classes of cases if he deems such action to be in the public interest, and his action in any such respect shall be final.
The foregoing revision and amendment is made for the purpose of granting to owners of savings notes the same privilege afforded owners of Series E savings bonds for exchanging their securities for Series H bonds with or without tax deferral. As good cause exists for making this change, which involves public property and contracts relating to the fiscal and monetary affairs of the United States, I find that notice and public procedures are unnecessary. This action is effected under the provisions of sections 18, 20, and 22 of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended (40 Stat. 1309, 48 Stat. 343, 49 Stat. 21, 73 Stat. 621, all as amended; 31 U.S.C. 753, 754b, 757c), and 5 U.S.C. 301.

PART 340—REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SALE OF TREASURY BONDS THROUGH COMPETITIVE BIDDING

[Authority:Sec. 8, 50 Stat. 481, as amended; R.S. 3706; secs. 1, 4, 18, 5, 40 Stat. 288, as amended, 290, as amended, 1309, as amended, 290, as amended; secs. 19, 20, 48 Stat. 343, as amended; 31 U.S.C. 738a, 739, 752, 752a, 753, 754, 754a, 754b.]
Authority:
Sec. 8, 50 Stat. 481, as amended; R.S. 3706; secs. 1, 4, 18, 5, 40 Stat. 288, as amended, 290, as amended, 1309, as amended, 290, as amended; secs. 19, 20, 48 Stat. 343, as amended; 31 U.S.C. 738a, 739, 752, 752a, 753, 754, 754a, 754b.
[Source:27 FR 12481, Dec. 18, 1962, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
27 FR 12481, Dec. 18, 1962, unless otherwise noted.

§ 340.0   Authority for sale of Treasury bonds through competitive bidding.

(a) The Secretary of the Treasury may, from time to time, by public notice, offer Treasury bonds for sale and invite bids therefor. The bonds so offered and the bids made will be subject to the terms and conditions and the rules and regulations herein set forth, except as they may be modified in the public notice or notices issued by the Secretary in connection with particular offerings. 
1
 The bonds will be subject also to the general rules and regulations of the Treasury Department, now or hereafter prescribed, governing United States securities. They will be issued pursuant to the authority of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended.
1
The bonds will be subject also to the general rules and regulations of the Treasury Department, now or hereafter prescribed, governing United States securities. They will be issued pursuant to the authority of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended.
1 These regulations do not apply to Treasury bills, which are governed by Department Circular No. 418, Revised, and do not constitute a specific offering of bonds.
1
These regulations do not apply to Treasury bills, which are governed by Department Circular No. 418, Revised, and do not constitute a specific offering of bonds.
(b) The terms public notice, notices, or announcement as used in this part mean the Public Notice of Invitation to Bid on Treasury bonds and any supplementary or amendatory notices or announcements with respect thereto, including, but not limited to any statement released to the press by the Secretary of the Treasury and notices sent to those who have filed notices of intent to bid or who have filed bids.
public notice, notices,
or
announcement
as used in this part mean the
Public Notice of Invitation to Bid
on Treasury bonds and any supplementary or amendatory notices or announcements with respect thereto, including, but not limited to any statement released to the press by the Secretary of the Treasury and notices sent to those who have filed notices of intent to bid or who have filed bids.

§ 340.1   Public notice—description of bonds—terms of offer.

When bonds are offered for sale through competitive bidding, bids therefor will be invited through the form of a public notice or notices issued by the Secretary of the Treasury. The notice or notices will either fix the coupon rate of interest to be borne by the bonds or prescribe the conditions under which bidders may specify the rate and will set forth the terms and conditions of the bonds, including maturities, call features, if any, and the terms and conditions of the offer, including the amount of the issue for which bids are invited, the date and closing hour for receipt of bids, and the date on which the bonds will be delivered and payment for any accepted bid must be completed. When so specified in the public notice, it shall be a condition of each bid that, if accepted by the Secretary of the Treasury, the bidder will make a bona fide reoffering to the investing public.

§ 340.2   Denominations and exchanges.

Bearer bonds with interest coupons attached, and bonds registered as to principal and interest, will be available in denominations of $500, $1,000, $5,000, $10,000, $100,000, and $1,000,000. Provisions will be made for the interchange of bonds of different denominations and of bearer and registered bonds, and for the transfer of registered bonds.

§ 340.3   Taxation.

The income derived from the bonds will be subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. The bonds will be subject to estate, inheritance, gift or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but will be exempt from all taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, or any of the possessions of the United States, or by any local taxing authority.

§ 340.4   Acceptance as security for public deposits.

The bonds will be acceptable to secure deposits of public moneys.

§ 340.5   Notice of intent to bid.

Any individual, or organization, syndicate, or other group which intends to submit a bid, must, when required by the public notice, give written notice of such intent on Form PD 3555 at the place and within the time specified in the public notice. The filing of such notice will not constitute a commitment to bid.

§ 340.6   Submission of bids.

(a) General. Bids will be received only at the place specified and not later than the time designated in the public notice. Each bid must be submitted on the official form referred to in the public notice and should be enclosed and sealed in the special envelope provided by the Treasury Department. Forms and envelopes may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220. Bids shall be irrevocable.
General.
Bids will be received only at the place specified and not later than the time designated in the public notice. Each bid must be submitted on the official form referred to in the public notice and should be enclosed and sealed in the special envelope provided by the Treasury Department. Forms and envelopes may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220. Bids shall be irrevocable.
(b) Bidding. Bids, except noncompetitive bids when authorized, must be expressed as a percentage of the principal amount in not to exceed five decimals, e.g., 100.01038 percent. Provisions relating to the coupon rate of interest on the bonds, if not set forth in the public notice, will be made in a supplemental announcement. The public notice will indicate the timing of any such announcement. If the bidders are required to specify the coupon rate, each bidder shall specify a single coupon rate of interest, which shall be a multiple of 
1/8 of 1 percent but not in excess of 4
1/4 percent. The Secretary of the Treasury may limit the premium above or the discount below par.
Bidding.
Bids, except noncompetitive bids when authorized, must be expressed as a percentage of the principal amount in not to exceed five decimals, e.g., 100.01038 percent. Provisions relating to the coupon rate of interest on the bonds, if not set forth in the public notice, will be made in a supplemental announcement. The public notice will indicate the timing of any such announcement. If the bidders are required to specify the coupon rate, each bidder shall specify a single coupon rate of interest, which shall be a multiple of
1/8
of 1 percent but not in excess of 4
1/4
percent. The Secretary of the Treasury may limit the premium above or the discount below par.
(c) Group bids. A syndicate or other group submitting a bid must act through a representative who must be a member of the group. The representative must warrant to the Secretary of the Treasury that he has all necessary power and authority to act for each member and to bind the members jointly and severally. In addition to whatever other data may be required by the Secretary of the Treasury, in the case of a syndicate, the representative must file, within one hour after the time for opening of bids, at the place specified in the public notice for receipt of bids a final statement of the composition of the syndicate membership and the amount of each member's underwriting participation.
Group bids.
A syndicate or other group submitting a bid must act through a representative who must be a member of the group. The representative must warrant to the Secretary of the Treasury that he has all necessary power and authority to act for each member and to bind the members jointly and severally. In addition to whatever other data may be required by the Secretary of the Treasury, in the case of a syndicate, the representative must file, within one hour after the time for opening of bids, at the place specified in the public notice for receipt of bids a final statement of the composition of the syndicate membership and the amount of each member's underwriting participation.

§ 340.7   Deposits—retention—return.

Each bid must be accompanied by a deposit in the amount specified in the public notice. The deposit of any successful bidder will be retained as security for the performance of his obligation and will be applied toward payment of the bonds. All other deposits will be returned immediately. No interest will be allowed on account of any deposits.

§ 340.8   Acceptance of bids.

(a) Opening of bids. Bids will be opened at the time and place specified in the public notice.
Opening of bids.
Bids will be opened at the time and place specified in the public notice.
(b) Method of determining accepted bids. The lowest basis cost of money 
2
 computed from the date of the bonds to the date of maturity will be used in determining successful bids.
Method of determining accepted bids.
The lowest basis cost of money
2
computed from the date of the bonds to the date of maturity will be used in determining successful bids.
2 In cases where bidders are required to specify the coupon rate, the lowest basis cost of money will be determined by reference to a specially prepared table of bond yields, a copy of which will be made available to all prospective bidders upon written request to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220. Straightline interpolation will be applied if necessary.
2
In cases where bidders are required to specify the coupon rate, the lowest basis cost of money will be determined by reference to a specially prepared table of bond yields, a copy of which will be made available to all prospective bidders upon written request to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220. Straightline interpolation will be applied if necessary.
(c) Acceptance of successful bid. The Secretary of the Treasury, or his representative, will notify any successful bidder of acceptance in the manner and form specified in the public notice.
Acceptance of successful bid.
The Secretary of the Treasury, or his representative, will notify any successful bidder of acceptance in the manner and form specified in the public notice.

§ 340.9   Bids—revocations—rejections—postponements—reoffers.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in his discretion, may (a) revoke the public notice of invitation to bid at any time before opening bids, (b) return all bids unopened either at or prior to the time specified for their opening, (c) reject any or all bids, (d) postpone the time for presentation and opening of bids, and (e) waive any immaterial or obvious defect in any bid. Any action the Secretary of the Treasury may take in these respects shall be final. In the event of a postponement, known bidders will be advised thereof and their bids returned unopened.

§ 340.10   Payment for and delivery of bonds.

Payment for the bonds, including accrued interest, if any, must be made in immediately available funds on the date and at the place specified in the invitation. Delivery of bonds under this section will be made at the risk and expense of the United States at such place or places in the United States as may be provided in the invitation. Interim receipts, if necessary, will be issued pending delivery of the definitive bonds.

§ 340.11   Failure to complete transaction.

If any successful bidder shall fail to pay in full for the bonds on the date and at the place specified in the invitation, the money deposited by or in behalf of such bidder shall be forfeited to the Treasury Department.

§ 340.12   Reservations as to terms of circular.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, at any time, or from time to time, to amend, repeal, supplement, revise or withdraw all or any of the provisions of this part.

PART 341—REGULATIONS GOVERNING UNITED STATES RETIREMENT PLAN BONDS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3106 et seq., 3125, 3126.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3106
et seq.,
3125, 3126.
[Source:28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, unless otherwise noted.

§ 341.0   Offering of bonds.

The Secretary of the Treasury, under the authority of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, and pursuant to the Self-Employed Individuals Tax Retirement Act of 1962, offers for sale, effective as of January 1, 1963, bonds of the United States, designated as United States Retirement Plan Bonds. The bonds will be available for investment only to:
(a) Bond purchase plans and
(b) Pension and profit-sharing plans, as described in sections 405 and 401, respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
This offering of bonds will terminate on April 30, 1982.
[[28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 47 FR 18596, Apr. 30, 1982]]

§ 341.1   Description of bonds.

(a) Investment yield (interest). United States Retirement Plan Bonds, hereinafter sometimes referred to as Retirement Plan Bonds, will be issued at par. The investment yields (interest) are as follows:
Investment yield (interest).
United States Retirement Plan Bonds, hereinafter sometimes referred to as Retirement Plan Bonds, will be issued at par. The investment yields (interest) are as follows:
(1) Bonds with issue dates of January 1, 1963, through May 1, 1966—3.75 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table of Redemption Values in the appendix).
(2) Bonds with issue dates of June 1, 1966, through December 1, 1969—4.15 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table A in the appendix).
(3) Bonds with issue dates of January 1, 1970, through January 1, 1974—5 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table B).
(4) Bonds with issue dates of February 1, 1974, through July 1, 1979—6 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table C).
(5) Bonds with issue dates of August 1, 1979, through October 1, 1980—6.5 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table D).
(6) Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1980, through September 1, 1981—8 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table E).
(7) Bonds with issue dates of October 1, 1981, or thereafter—9 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table F).
Interest will be paid only upon redemption of the bonds. The accrual of interest will continue until the bonds are redeemed or have reached maturity, whichever is earlier, in accordance with these regulations.
(b) Term. The maturity date of any bond issued under this circular shall be indeterminate, but unless sooner redeemed in accordance with the regulations in this part, its investment yield will cease on the interest accrual date coinciding with, or, where no such coincidence occurs, the interest accrual date next preceding, the first day of the sixtieth (60th) month following the date of death of the person in whose name it is registered.
Term.
The maturity date of any bond issued under this circular shall be indeterminate, but unless sooner redeemed in accordance with the regulations in this part, its investment yield will cease on the interest accrual date coinciding with, or, where no such coincidence occurs, the interest accrual date next preceding, the first day of the sixtieth (60th) month following the date of death of the person in whose name it is registered.
(c) Denominations—issue date. Retirement Plan Bonds will be available only in registered form and in denominations of $50, $100, $500, and $1,000. At the time of issue, the issuing agent will enter in the upper right-hand portion of the bond the issue date (which shall be the first day of the month and year in which payment of the purchase price is received by an authorized issuing agent), and will imprint the agent's validating stamp in the lower right-hand portion. The issue date, as distinguished from the date in the agent's validating stamp, will determine the date from which interest will begin to accrue on the bond. A Retirement Plan Bond shall be valid only if an authorized issuing agent receives payment therefor, duly inscribes, dates, stamps, and delivers it.
Denominations—issue date.
Retirement Plan Bonds will be available only in registered form and in denominations of $50, $100, $500, and $1,000. At the time of issue, the issuing agent will enter in the upper right-hand portion of the bond the issue date (which shall be the first day of the month and year in which payment of the purchase price is received by an authorized issuing agent), and will imprint the agent's validating stamp in the lower right-hand portion. The issue date, as distinguished from the date in the agent's validating stamp, will determine the date from which interest will begin to accrue on the bond. A Retirement Plan Bond shall be valid only if an authorized issuing agent receives payment therefor, duly inscribes, dates, stamps, and delivers it.
[[28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 46 FR 60573, Dec. 11, 1981]]

§ 341.2   Registration.

(a) General. The registration of Retirement Plan Bonds is limited to the names of natural persons in their own right, whether adults or minors, in either single ownership or beneficiary form. A bond registered in beneficiary form will be inscribed substantially as follows (for example): “John A. Doe payable on death to (or P.O.D.) Richard B. Roe,” No more than one beneficiary may be designated on a bond.
General.
The registration of Retirement Plan Bonds is limited to the names of natural persons in their own right, whether adults or minors, in either single ownership or beneficiary form. A bond registered in beneficiary form will be inscribed substantially as follows (for example): “John A. Doe payable on death to (or P.O.D.) Richard B. Roe,” No more than one beneficiary may be designated on a bond.
(b) Inscription. The inscription on the face of each bond will show the name, address, and date of birth of the registered owner, as well as information as to whether he is a self-employed individual or an employee, and the amount he contributed (if any) out of his own funds toward the purchase price of the bond. In the case of any self-employed individual (who is treated as an employee for the purpose of sections 405 and 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954), this amount would be that portion of the purchase price he contributed (if any) as an employee and which he will not take into account in determining the amount deductible for Federal income tax purposes. The name of the beneficiary, if one is to be designated, will also be shown in the inscription.
Inscription.
The inscription on the face of each bond will show the name, address, and date of birth of the registered owner, as well as information as to whether he is a self-employed individual or an employee, and the amount he contributed (if any) out of his own funds toward the purchase price of the bond. In the case of any self-employed individual (who is treated as an employee for the purpose of sections 405 and 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954), this amount would be that portion of the purchase price he contributed (if any) as an employee and which he will not take into account in determining the amount deductible for Federal income tax purposes. The name of the beneficiary, if one is to be designated, will also be shown in the inscription.
[[28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006]]

§ 341.3   Purchase of bonds.

(a) Agencies. Retirement Plan Bonds may be purchased over-the-counter or by mail from Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226. Customers of commercial banks and trust companies may be able to arrange for the purchase of the bonds through such institutions, but only the Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service are authorized to act as official agencies, and the date of receipt of the application and payment by an official agency will govern the dating of the bonds issued.
Agencies.
Retirement Plan Bonds may be purchased over-the-counter or by mail from Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226. Customers of commercial banks and trust companies may be able to arrange for the purchase of the bonds through such institutions, but only the Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service are authorized to act as official agencies, and the date of receipt of the application and payment by an official agency will govern the dating of the bonds issued.
(b) Application. Applications for the purchase of Retirement Plan Bonds should be made on Form PD 3550, accompanied by a remittance to cover the purchase price. Personal checks will be accepted, subject to collection. Checks or other forms of exchange, should be drawn to the Federal Reserve Bank or United States Treasury, as the case may be. Checks payable by endorsement are not acceptable.
Application.
Applications for the purchase of Retirement Plan Bonds should be made on Form PD 3550, accompanied by a remittance to cover the purchase price. Personal checks will be accepted, subject to collection. Checks or other forms of exchange, should be drawn to the Federal Reserve Bank or United States Treasury, as the case may be. Checks payable by endorsement are not acceptable.
(c) Delivery. Delivery of bonds will be made in person, or by mail at the risk and expense of the United States, at the address given by the purchaser, but only within the United States, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zone. No mail deliveries elsewhere will be made. If the registered owner temporarily resides abroad, the bonds will be delivered to such address in the United States as the purchaser directs.
Delivery.
Delivery of bonds will be made in person, or by mail at the risk and expense of the United States, at the address given by the purchaser, but only within the United States, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zone. No mail deliveries elsewhere will be made. If the registered owner temporarily resides abroad, the bonds will be delivered to such address in the United States as the purchaser directs.

§ 341.4   Proof of purchase.

At the time a Retirement Plan Bond is issued, the issuing agent will furnish therewith to the purchaser, and in cases where the purchaser is different from the person in whose name the bond is inscribed, to the registered owner as well, proof of the purchase on Form PD 3550. The form will show the names and addresses of the purchaser and of the registered owner, the latter's date of birth, social security account number and his classification (i.e., self-employed individual or employee) the number of bonds issued, a description thereof by issue date, serial numbers, denominations, and registration, together with information as to the amount of his contributions (if any) toward the purchase price of the bonds.
i.e.
, self-employed individual or employee) the number of bonds issued, a description thereof by issue date, serial numbers, denominations, and registration, together with information as to the amount of his contributions (if any) toward the purchase price of the bonds.

§ 341.5   Limitation on holdings.

The limit on the amount of any Retirement Plan Bonds issued during 1974, or in any one calendar year thereafter, that may be purchased in the name of any one person as registered owner is $10,000 (face value).
[[39 FR 36114, Oct. 8, 1974]]

§ 341.6   Nontransferability.

United States Retirement Plan Bonds are not transferable, and may not be sold, discounted or pledged as collateral for a loan or as security for the performance of an obligation, or for any other purpose.

§ 341.7   Judicial proceedings.

No judicial determinations will be recognized which would give effect to an attempted voluntary transfer inter vivos of a Retirement Plan Bond. Otherwise, a claim against a registered owner will be recognized when established by valid judicial proceedings, but in no case will payment be made to the purchaser at a sale under a levy or to the officer authorized to levy upon the property of the owner under appropriate process to satisfy a money judgement unless or until the bond has become eligible for redemption pursuant to the regulations in this part. Neither the Treasury Department nor any of its agencies will accept notices of adverse claims or of pending judicial proceedings or undertake to protect the interests of litigants who do not have possession of the bond.

§ 341.8   Payment or redemption during lifetime of owner.

(a) At age 59
1/2 or thereafter. A Retirement Plan Bond will be redeemable at its current redemption value upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), provided he is 59
1/2 years of age or older. The owner's age will be determined from the date of birth shown on the face of the bond, provided, however, that the Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right in any case or class of cases to require proof, in the form of a duly certified copy of his birth certificate, that the owner has attained the age of 59
1/2 years. If such evidence is unavailable, one of the following documents may be furnished in lieu thereof:
At age 59
1/2
or thereafter.
A Retirement Plan Bond will be redeemable at its current redemption value upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), provided he is 59
1/2
years of age or older. The owner's age will be determined from the date of birth shown on the face of the bond, provided, however, that the Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right in any case or class of cases to require proof, in the form of a duly certified copy of his birth certificate, that the owner has attained the age of 59
1/2
years. If such evidence is unavailable, one of the following documents may be furnished in lieu thereof:
(1) Church records of birth or baptism.
(2) Hospital birth record or certificate.
(3) Physician's or midwife's birth record.
(4) Certification of Bible or other family record.
(5) Military, naturalization or immigration records.
(6) Other evidence of probative value. Similar documentary evidence will also be required to support any claim made by an owner that the date of birth shown on his bond is incorrect.
(b) Prior to age 59
1/2 years. A Retirement Plan Bond will be paid at its then current redemption value upon a registered owner's request (or by a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf) prior to his attainment of age 59
1/2 years upon submission of a physician's statement or any similar evidence showing that the owner has become disabled to such an extent that he is unable to engage in any substantial, gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to be of long-continued and indefinite duration. The following are examples of impairments which would ordinarily be considered as preventing substantial, gainful activity:
Prior to age 59
1/2
years.
A Retirement Plan Bond will be paid at its then current redemption value upon a registered owner's request (or by a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf) prior to his attainment of age 59
1/2
years upon submission of a physician's statement or any similar evidence showing that the owner has become disabled to such an extent that he is unable to engage in any substantial, gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to be of long-continued and indefinite duration. The following are examples of impairments which would ordinarily be considered as preventing substantial, gainful activity:
(1) Loss of use of two limbs.
(2) Certain progressive diseases which have resulted in the physical loss or atrophy of a limb, such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis, or Buerger's disease.
(3) Diseases of the heart, lungs, or blood vessels which have resulted in major loss of heart or lung reserve as evidenced by X-ray, electrocardiogram, or other objective findings, so that despite medical treatment breathlessness, pain, or fatigue is produced on slight exertion, such as walking several blocks, using public transportation, or doing small chores.
(4) Cancer which is inoperable and progressive.
(5) Damage to the brain or brain abnormality which has resulted in severe loss of judgment, intellect, orientation, or memory.
(6) Mental diseases (e.g., psychosis or severe psychoneurosis) requiring continued institutionalization or constant supervision of the individual.
(7) Loss or diminution of vision to the extent that the affected individual has a central visual acuity of no better than 20/200 in the better eye after best correction, or has a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual fields subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
(8) Permanent and total loss of speech.
(9) Total deafness uncorrectible by a hearing aid.
In any case coming under the provisions of this paragraph, the evidence referred to above must be submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101, for approval before any bonds may be paid. If, after review of the evidence, the Secretary of the Treasury is satisfied that the owner's disability has been established, a letter will be furnished authorizing payment of his Retirement Plan Bonds. This letter must be presented each time any of the owner's bonds are submitted for payment to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
(c) Requests for payment—(1) By owner. When redemption of any Retirement Plan Bond is desired by the registered owner under paragraph (a) of this section, it should be presented with the request for payment on the back of the bond signed and duly certified, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101. If payment is requested under paragraph (b) of this section, the letter described therein should accompany the bond.
Requests for payment
—(1)
By owner.
When redemption of any Retirement Plan Bond is desired by the registered owner under paragraph (a) of this section, it should be presented with the request for payment on the back of the bond signed and duly certified, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101. If payment is requested under paragraph (b) of this section, the letter described therein should accompany the bond.
(2) By person other than owner. When redemption of any Retirement Plan Bond is desired by the legal guardian, committee conservator, or similar representative of the owner's estate under paragraph (a) of this section, it should be presented, with the request signed as described below, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. If payment is requested under paragraph (b) of this section, the letter described therein should accompany the bond. 
1
 The request for payment, in either case, should be signed by the representative in his fiduciary capacity before an authorized certifying officer, and must be supported by a certificate or a certified copy of the letters of the appointment from the court making the appointment, under seal, or other proof of qualification if the appointment was not made by a court. Except in the case of corporate fiduciaries, such evidence should state that the appointment is in full force and should be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment.
By person other than owner.
When redemption of any Retirement Plan Bond is desired by the legal guardian, committee conservator, or similar representative of the owner's estate under paragraph (a) of this section, it should be presented, with the request signed as described below, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. If payment is requested under paragraph (b) of this section, the letter described therein should accompany the bond.
1
The request for payment, in either case, should be signed by the representative in his fiduciary capacity before an authorized certifying officer, and must be supported by a certificate or a certified copy of the letters of the appointment from the court making the appointment, under seal, or other proof of qualification if the appointment was not made by a court. Except in the case of corporate fiduciaries, such evidence should state that the appointment is in full force and should be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment.
1 In any case in which a legal representative has not been appointed for the estate of a registered owner who has attained the age of 59
1/2 years, or who has become disabled, a person seeking payment of a bond on the owner's behalf should furnish a complete statement of the circumstances to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101. Appropriate instructions will then be furnished.
1
In any case in which a legal representative has not been appointed for the estate of a registered owner who has attained the age of 59
1/2
years, or who has become disabled, a person seeking payment of a bond on the owner's behalf should furnish a complete statement of the circumstances to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101. Appropriate instructions will then be furnished.
(d) Partial redemption. A Retirement Plan Bond in a denomination greater than $50 (face value) which is otherwise eligible for redemption may be redeemed in part, at current redemption value, upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), but only in amounts corresponding to authorized denominations. In any case in which partial redemption is desired, before the request for payment is signed, the phrase “to the extent of $__ (face value) and reissue of the remainder” should be appended to the request. Upon partial redemption of the bond, the remainder will be reissued as of the original issue date. No partial redemption of a bond will be made after the death of the owner in whose name it is registered.
Partial redemption.
A Retirement Plan Bond in a denomination greater than $50 (face value) which is otherwise eligible for redemption may be redeemed in part, at current redemption value, upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), but only in amounts corresponding to authorized denominations. In any case in which partial redemption is desired, before the request for payment is signed, the phrase “to the extent of $__ (face value) and reissue of the remainder” should be appended to the request. Upon partial redemption of the bond, the remainder will be reissued as of the original issue date. No partial redemption of a bond will be made after the death of the owner in whose name it is registered.
[[28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 42 FR 21611, Apr. 28, 1977]]

§ 341.9   Payment or redemption after death of owner.

(a) Order of precedence where owner not survived by beneficiary. If the registered owner of a Retirement Plan Bond dies before it has been presented and surrendered for payment, and there is no beneficiary shown thereon, or if the designated beneficiary predeceased the owner, the bond shall be paid in the following order of precedence:
Order of precedence where owner not survived by beneficiary.
If the registered owner of a Retirement Plan Bond dies before it has been presented and surrendered for payment, and there is no beneficiary shown thereon, or if the designated beneficiary predeceased the owner, the bond shall be paid in the following order of precedence:
(1) To the duly appointed executor or administrator of the estate of the owner, who should sign the request for payment on the back of the bond in his representative capacity before an authorized certifying officer, such request to be supported by a court certificate or a certified copy of his letters of appointment, under seal of the court, which should show that the appointment is in full force and effect, and be dated within six months of its presentation;
(2) If no legal representative of the deceased registered owner's estate has been or will be appointed, to the widow or widower of the owner;
(3) If none of the above, to the child or children of the owner and the descendants of deceased children by representation;
(4) If none of the above, to the parents of the owner, or the survivor of them;
(5) In none of the above, to other next-of-kin of the owner, as determined by the laws of the domicile of such owner at the time of his death. In any case coming under the provisions of this paragraph, a duly certified copy of the registered owner's death certificate will ordinarily be required. Proof of death of the beneficiary, if any, will be required where he predeceased the owner. Payment of bonds under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be made by a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101. Payment of bonds under paragraphs (a)(2) to (5) of this section will be made upon receipt of applications on Form PD 3565, together with the bonds and supporting evidence, by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
(b) Order of precedence where beneficiary survived owner. If the registered owner of a Retirement Plan Bond dies before it has been presented and surrendered for payment, and the beneficiary shown thereon survived the owner, the bond shall be paid in the following order of precedence:
Order of precedence where beneficiary survived owner.
If the registered owner of a Retirement Plan Bond dies before it has been presented and surrendered for payment, and the beneficiary shown thereon survived the owner, the bond shall be paid in the following order of precedence:
(1) To the designated beneficiary upon his presentation and surrender of the bond with the request for payment signed and duly certified, such payment to be made to the exclusion of any other person who may have been named beneficiary by the registered owner in a bond purchase plan, or under a pension or profit-sharing plan;
(2) If the designated beneficiary survived the registered owner but failed to present the bond for payment during his own lifetime, payment will be made in the order of precedence specified in paragraphs (a) (1) to (5) of this section to the legal representative, surviving spouse, children, parents, or next-of-kin of such beneficiary, and in the manner provided therein.
In any case coming under the provisions of this paragraph, a duly certified copy of the registered owner's death certificate will ordinarily be required. Proof of death of the beneficiary will also be required where he survived the owner but failed to present the bond for payment during his own lifetime. Payment of a bond to a designated beneficiary will be made by Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
(c) Ownership of redemption proceeds. The orders of precedence set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, except in case where redemption is made for the account of a registered owner, are for the Department's convenience in discharging its obligation on a Retirement Plan Bond. The discharge of the obligation in accordance therewith shall be final so far as the Department is concerned, but those provisions do not otherwise purport to determine ownership of the redemption proceeds of a bond.
Ownership of redemption proceeds.
The orders of precedence set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, except in case where redemption is made for the account of a registered owner, are for the Department's convenience in discharging its obligation on a Retirement Plan Bond. The discharge of the obligation in accordance therewith shall be final so far as the Department is concerned, but those provisions do not otherwise purport to determine ownership of the redemption proceeds of a bond.
[[28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 42 FR 21611, Apr. 28, 1977]]

§ 341.10   Reissue.

(a) Addition or change of beneficiary. A Retirement Plan Bond will be reissued to add a beneficiary in the case of a single ownership bond, or to eliminate or substitute a beneficiary in the case of a bond registered in beneficiary form upon the owner's request on Form PD 3564. No consent will be required to support any reissue transaction from a beneficiary whose name is to be removed from the registration of a Retirement Plan Bond. If the registered owner dies after the bond has been presented and surrendered for reissue, upon receipt of notice thereof by the agency to which the request for reissue was submitted, such request shall be treated as ineffective, provided the notice of death is received by the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC, 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101, to which the request was sent, in sufficient time to withhold delivery, by mail or otherwise, of the reissued bond.
Addition or change of beneficiary.
A Retirement Plan Bond will be reissued to add a beneficiary in the case of a single ownership bond, or to eliminate or substitute a beneficiary in the case of a bond registered in beneficiary form upon the owner's request on Form PD 3564. No consent will be required to support any reissue transaction from a beneficiary whose name is to be removed from the registration of a Retirement Plan Bond. If the registered owner dies after the bond has been presented and surrendered for reissue, upon receipt of notice thereof by the agency to which the request for reissue was submitted, such request shall be treated as ineffective, provided the notice of death is received by the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC, 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101, to which the request was sent, in sufficient time to withhold delivery, by mail or otherwise, of the reissued bond.
(b) Error in issue—change of name. Reissue of a Retirement Plan Bond will be made where an error in issue has occurred, as well as in cases where the owner's name has been changed by marriage, divorce, annulment, order of court, or in any other legal manner, upon appropriate request supported by satisfactory evidence. Information as to the procedure to be followed in securing such reissue may be obtained from a Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
Error in issue—change of name.
Reissue of a Retirement Plan Bond will be made where an error in issue has occurred, as well as in cases where the owner's name has been changed by marriage, divorce, annulment, order of court, or in any other legal manner, upon appropriate request supported by satisfactory evidence. Information as to the procedure to be followed in securing such reissue may be obtained from a Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
[[28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 42 FR 21611, Apr. 28, 1977; 42 FR 57123, Nov. 1, 1977]]

§ 341.11   Use of power of attorney.

No designation of an attorney, agent, or other representative to request payment or reissue on behalf of the owner, beneficiary, or other person entitled under § 341.9, other than as provided in the regulations in this part, will be recognized.

§ 341.12   Lost, stolen, or destroyed bonds.

If a Retirement Plan Bond is lost, stolen, or destroyed, a substitute may be issued upon identification of the bond and proof of its loss, theft, or destruction. A description of the bond by denomination, serial number, issue date and registration should be furnished at the time the report of loss, theft, or destruction is made. Such reports should be sent to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101. Full instructions for obtaining substitute bonds will then be given.
[[28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 42 FR 21611, Apr. 28, 1977]]

§ 341.13   Taxation.

The tax treatment provided under section 405 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 shall apply to all Retirement Plan Bonds. The bonds are subject to estate, inheritance, or other excise taxes whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, municipality, or any local taxing authority. Inquiries concerning the application of any Federal tax of these bonds should be directed to the District Director of Internal Revenue of the taxpayer's district or to the Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20224.

§ 341.14   Certifying officers.

Officers authorized to certify requests for payment or for any other transaction involving Retirement Plan Bonds include:
(a) Post offices. Any postmaster, acting postmaster, or inspector-in-charge, or other post office official or clerk designated for that purpose. A post office official or clerk, other than a postmaster, acting postmaster, or inspector-in-charge, should certify in the name of the postmaster or acting postmaster, followed by his own signature and official title. Signatures of these officers should be authenticated by a legible imprint of the post office dating stamp.
Post offices.
Any postmaster, acting postmaster, or inspector-in-charge, or other post office official or clerk designated for that purpose. A post office official or clerk, other than a postmaster, acting postmaster, or inspector-in-charge, should certify in the name of the postmaster or acting postmaster, followed by his own signature and official title. Signatures of these officers should be authenticated by a legible imprint of the post office dating stamp.
(b) Banks and trust companies. Any officer of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or of a bank or trust company chartered under the laws of the United States or those of any State, Commonwealth, or Territory of the United States, as well as any employees of such bank or trust company expressly authorized to act for that purpose, who should sign over the title “Designated Employee.” Certifications by any of these officers or designated employees should be authenticated by either a legible imprint of the corporate seal, or, where the institution is an authorized issuing agent for United States Savings Bonds, Series E, by a legible imprint of its dating stamp.
Banks and trust companies.
Any officer of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or of a bank or trust company chartered under the laws of the United States or those of any State, Commonwealth, or Territory of the United States, as well as any employees of such bank or trust company expressly authorized to act for that purpose, who should sign over the title “Designated Employee.” Certifications by any of these officers or designated employees should be authenticated by either a legible imprint of the corporate seal, or, where the institution is an authorized issuing agent for United States Savings Bonds, Series E, by a legible imprint of its dating stamp.
(c) Issuing agents of Series E savings bonds. Any officer of a corporation or any other organization which is an authorized issuing agent for United States Savings Bonds, Series E. All certifications by such officers must be authenticated by a legible imprint of the issuing agent's dating stamp.
Issuing agents of Series E savings bonds.
Any officer of a corporation or any other organization which is an authorized issuing agent for United States Savings Bonds, Series E. All certifications by such officers must be authenticated by a legible imprint of the issuing agent's dating stamp.
(d) Foreign countries. In a foreign country requests may be signed in the presence of and be certified by any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the manager or other officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate seal or is certified to the Treasury Department. If such an officer is not available, requests may be signed in the presence of and be certified by a notary or other officer authorized to administer oaths, but his official character and jurisdiction should be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his office.
Foreign countries.
In a foreign country requests may be signed in the presence of and be certified by any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the manager or other officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate seal or is certified to the Treasury Department. If such an officer is not available, requests may be signed in the presence of and be certified by a notary or other officer authorized to administer oaths, but his official character and jurisdiction should be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his office.
(e) Special provisions. The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, the Chief of the Division of Securities Operations, or any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for certification in any particular case or class of cases where none of the officers authorized above is readily accessible.
Special provisions.
The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, the Chief of the Division of Securities Operations, or any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for certification in any particular case or class of cases where none of the officers authorized above is readily accessible.

§ 341.15   General provisions.

(a) Regulations. All Retirement Plan Bonds shall be subject to the general regulations prescribed by the Secretary with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in Treasury Department Circular No. 300, current revision, to the extent applicable. Copies of the general regulations may be obtained upon request from any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
Regulations.
All Retirement Plan Bonds shall be subject to the general regulations prescribed by the Secretary with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in Treasury Department Circular No. 300, current revision, to the extent applicable. Copies of the general regulations may be obtained upon request from any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
(b) Reservation as to issue of bonds. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to reject any application for the purchase of Retirement Plan Bonds, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued any such bonds in any case or any class or classes of cases if he deems such action to be in the public interest, and his action in any such respect shall be final.
Reservation as to issue of bonds.
The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to reject any application for the purchase of Retirement Plan Bonds, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued any such bonds in any case or any class or classes of cases if he deems such action to be in the public interest, and his action in any such respect shall be final.
(c) Additional requirements. In any case or any class of cases arising under this part the Secretary of the Treasury may require such additional evidence as may in his judgment be necessary, and may require a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, where he may consider such bond necessary for the protection of the United States.
Additional requirements.
In any case or any class of cases arising under this part the Secretary of the Treasury may require such additional evidence as may in his judgment be necessary, and may require a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, where he may consider such bond necessary for the protection of the United States.
(d) Waiver of requirements. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, in his discretion, to waive or modify any provision or provisions of this circular in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States, or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not impair any existing rights, and he is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
Waiver of requirements.
The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, in his discretion, to waive or modify any provision or provisions of this circular in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States, or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not impair any existing rights, and he is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
(e) Fiscal agents. Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the issue, delivery, redemption, reissue, and payment of Retirement Plan Bonds.
Fiscal agents.
Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the issue, delivery, redemption, reissue, and payment of Retirement Plan Bonds.
(f) Reservation as to terms of circular. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this part, or any amendments or supplements thereto.
Reservation as to terms of circular.
The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this part, or any amendments or supplements thereto.

Appendix to Part 341—Tables of Redemption Values

Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 33⁄4 Percent per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning January 1, 1963
3
⁄
4
Percent per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning January 1, 1963
Table shows how the Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning January 1, 1963, by denomination, increase in redemption value during successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of 3.75 percent 1 per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b). 2
1
per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b).
2
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (Values increase on first day of period shown)
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
First
1
⁄
2
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
1
⁄
2
to 1
50.94
101.88
509.38
1,018.75
1 to 1
1
⁄
2
51.89
103.79
518.93
1,037.85
1
1
⁄
2
to 2
52.87
105.73
528.66
1,057.31
2 to 2
1
⁄
2
53.86
107.71
538.57
1,077.14
2
1
⁄
2
to 3
54.87
109.73
548.67
1,097.33
3 to 3
1
⁄
2
55.90
111.79
558.95
1,117.91
3
1
⁄
2
to 4
56.94
113.89
569.43
1,138.87
4 to 4
1
⁄
2
58.01
116.02
580.11
1,160.22
4
1
⁄
2
to 5
59.10
118.20
590.99
1,181.98
5 to 5
1
⁄
2
60.21
120.41
602.07
1,204.14
5
1
⁄
2
to 6
61.34
122.67
613.36
1,226.72
6 to 6
1
⁄
2
62.49
124.97
624.86
1,249.72
6
1
⁄
2
to 7
63.66
127.31
636.57
1,273.15
7 to 7
1
⁄
2
64.85
129.70
648.51
1,297.02
7
1
⁄
2
to 8
66.07
132.13
660.67
1,321.34
8 to 8
1
⁄
2
67.31
134.61
673.06
1,346.11
8
1
⁄
2
to 9
68.57
137.14
685.68
1,371.35
9 to 9
1
⁄
2
69.85
139.71
698.53
1,397.07
9
1
⁄
2
to 10
71.16
142.33
711.63
1,423.26
10 to 10
1
⁄
2
72.50
144.99
724.97
1,449.95
10
1
⁄
2
to 11
73.86
147.71
738.57
1,477.13
11 to 11
1
⁄
2
75.24
150.48
752.42
1,504.83
11
1
⁄
2
to 12
76.65
153.30
766.52
1,533.05
12 to 12
1
⁄
2
78.09
156.18
780.90
1,561.79
12
1
⁄
2
to 13
79.55
159.11
795.54
1,591.07
13 to 13
1
⁄
2
81.05
162.09
810.45
1,620.91
13
1
⁄
2
to 14
82.56
165.13
825.65
1,651.30
14 to 14
1
⁄
2
84.11
168.23
841.13
1,682.26
14
1
⁄
2
to 15
85.69
171.38
856.90
1,713.80
15 to 15
1
⁄
2
87.30
174.59
872.97
1,745.94
15
1
⁄
2
to 16
88.93
177.87
889.34
1,778.67
16 to 16
1
⁄
2
90.60
181.20
906.01
1,812.02
16
1
⁄
2
to 17
92.30
184.60
923.00
1,846.00
17 to 17
1
⁄
2
94.03
188.06
940.31
1,880.61
17
1
⁄
2
to 18
95.79
191.59
957.94
1,915.87
18 to 18
1
⁄
2
97.59
195.18
975.90
1,951.80
18
1
⁄
2
to 19
99.42
198.84
994.20
1,988.39
19 to 19
1
⁄
2
101.28
202.57
1,012.84
2,025.67
19
1
⁄
2
to 20
103.18
206.37
1,031.83
2,063.66
20 to 20
1
⁄
2
105.12
210.23
1,051.17
2,102.35
1
Based on redemption values of $1,000 bond.
2
At a future date prior to January 1, 1983 (20 years after issue date of the first bonds) this table will be extended to show redemption values for periods of holding of 20
1
⁄
2
years and beyond.
Table A—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 4.15 Percent Per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning June 1, 1966
Table shows the increase in redemption value for each successive half-year term of holding following the date of issue on Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning June 1, 1966. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of approximately 4.15 percent 1 per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b) of this circular. 2
1
per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b) of this circular.
2
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50
$100
$500
$1,000
First
1
⁄
2
$0.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
1
⁄
2
to 1
51.04
102.08
510.38
1,020.75
1 to 1
1
⁄
2
52.10
104.19
520.97
1,041.93
1
1
⁄
2
to 2
53.18
106.36
531.78
1,063.55
2 to 2
1
⁄
2
54.28
108.56
542.81
1,085.62
2
1
⁄
2
to 3
55.41
110.81
554.07
1,108.15
3 to 3
1
⁄
2
56.56
113.11
565.57
1,131.14
3
1
⁄
2
to 4
57.73
115.46
577.31
1,154.61
4 to 4
1
⁄
2
58.93
117.86
589.28
1,178.57
4
1
⁄
2
to 5
60.15
120.30
601.51
1,203.02
5 to 5
1
⁄
2
61.40
122.80
613.99
1,227.99
5
1
⁄
2
to 6
62.67
125.35
626.73
1,253.47
6 to 6
1
⁄
2
63.97
127.95
639.74
1,279.48
6
1
⁄
2
to 7
65.30
130.60
653.01
1,306.03
7 to 7
1
⁄
2
66.66
133.31
666.56
1,333.13
7
1
⁄
2
to 8
68.04
136.08
680.39
1,360.73
8 to 8
1
⁄
2
69.45
138.90
694.51
1,389.09
8
1
⁄
2
to 9
70.89
141.78
708.92
1,417.85
9 to 9
1
⁄
2
72.36
144.73
723.63
1,447.27
9
1
⁄
2
to 10
73.86
147.73
738.65
1,477.30
10 to 10
1
⁄
2
75.40
150.80
753.98
1,507.95
10
1
⁄
2
to 11
76.96
153.92
769.62
1,539.24
11 to 11
1
⁄
2
78.56
157.12
785.59
1,571.18
11
1
⁄
2
to 12
80.19
160.38
801.89
1,603.78
12 to 12
1
⁄
2
81.85
163.71
818.53
1,637.06
12
1
⁄
2
to 13
83.55
167.10
835.52
1,671.03
13 to 13
1
⁄
2
85.29
170.57
852.85
1,705.71
13
1
⁄
2
to 14
87.05
174.11
870.55
1,741.10
14 to 14
1
⁄
2
88.86
177.72
888.61
1,777.23
14
1
⁄
2
to 15
90.71
181.41
907.05
1,814.10
15 to 15
1
⁄
2
92.59
185.17
925.87
1,851.75
15
1
⁄
2
to 16
94.51
189.02
945.09
1,890.17
16 to 16
1
⁄
2
96.47
192.94
964.70
1,929.39
16
1
⁄
2
to 17
98.47
196.94
984.71
1,969.43
17 to 17
1
⁄
2
100.51
201.03
1,005.15
2,010.29
17
1
⁄
2
to 18
102.60
205.20
1,026.00
2,052.01
18 to 18
1
⁄
2
104.73
209.46
1,047.29
2,094.58
18
1
⁄
2
to 19
106.90
213.80
1,069.02
2,138.05
19 to 19
1
⁄
2
109.12
218.24
1,091.21
2,182.41
19
1
⁄
2
to 20
111.38
222.77
1,113.85
2,227.70
20 to 20
1
⁄
2
2
113.70
227.39
1,136.96
2,273.92
1
Based on redemption values of $1,000 bond.
2
At a future date prior to June 1, 1986 (20 years after issue date of the first bonds), this table will be extended to show redemption values for periods of holding of 20
1
⁄
2
years and beyond.
Table B—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 5.00 Percent Per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning January 1, 1970
Table shows the increase in redemption value for each successive half-year term of holding following the date of issue on Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning January 1, 1970. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of approximately 5.00 percent 1 per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b) of this circular. 2
1
per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b) of this circular.
2
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50
$100
$500
$1,000
First
1
⁄
2
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
1
⁄
2
to 1
51.25
102.50
512.50
1,025.00
1 to 1
1
⁄
2
52.53
105.06
525.31
1,050.62
1
1
⁄
2
to 2
53.84
107.69
538.45
1,076.89
2 to 2
1
⁄
2
55.19
110.38
551.91
1,103.81
2
1
⁄
2
to 3
56.57
113.14
565.70
1,131.41
3 to 3
1
⁄
2
57.98
115.97
579.85
1,159.69
3
1
⁄
2
to 4
59.43
118.87
594.34
1,188.69
4 to 4
1
⁄
2
60.92
121.84
609.20
1,218.40
4
1
⁄
2
to 5
62.44
124.89
624.43
1,248.86
5 to 5
1
⁄
2
64.00
128.01
640.04
1,280.08
5
1
⁄
2
to 6
65.60
131.21
656.04
1,312.09
6 to 6
1
⁄
2
67.24
134.49
672.44
1,344.89
6
1
⁄
2
to 7
68.93
137.85
689.26
1,378.51
7 to 7
1
⁄
2
70.65
141.30
706.49
1,412.97
7
1
⁄
2
to 8
72.42
144.83
724.15
1,448.30
8 to 8
1
⁄
2
74.22
148.45
742.25
1,484.51
8
1
⁄
2
to 9
76.08
152.16
760.81
1,521.62
9 to 9
1
⁄
2
77.98
155.97
779.83
1,559.66
9
1
⁄
2
to 10
79.93
159.86
799.33
1,598.65
10 to 10
1
⁄
2
81.93
163.86
819.31
1,638.62
10
1
⁄
2
to 11
83.98
167.96
839.79
1,679.58
11 to 11
1
⁄
2
86.08
172.16
860.79
1,721.57
11
1
⁄
2
to 12
88.23
176.46
882.31
1,764.61
12 to 12
1
⁄
2
90.44
180.87
904.36
1,808.73
12
1
⁄
2
to 13
92.70
185.39
926.97
1,853.94
13 to 13
1
⁄
2
95.02
190.03
950.15
1,900.29
13
1
⁄
2
to 14
97.39
194.78
973.90
1,947.80
14 to 14
1
⁄
2
99.82
199.65
998.25
1,996.50
14
1
⁄
2
to 15
102.32
204.64
1,023.20
2,046.41
15 to 15
1
⁄
2
104.88
209.76
1,048.78
2,097.57
15
1
⁄
2
to 16
107.50
215.00
1,075.00
2,150.01
16 to 16
1
⁄
2
110.19
220.38
1,101.88
2,203.76
16
1
⁄
2
to 17
112.94
225.88
1,129.43
2,258.85
17 to 17
1
⁄
2
115.77
231.53
1,157.66
2,315.32
17
1
⁄
2
to 18
118.66
237.32
1,186.60
2,373.21
18 to 18
1
⁄
2
121.63
243.25
1,216.27
2,432.54
18
1
⁄
2
to 19
124.67
249.34
1,246.67
2,493.35
19 to 19
1
⁄
2
127.78
255.57
1,277.84
2,555.68
19
1
⁄
2
to 20
130.98
261.96
1,309.79
2,619.57
20 to 20
1
⁄
2
134.25
268.51
1,342.53
2,685.06
1
Based on redemption values of $1,000 bond.
2
At a future date prior to January 1, 1990 (20 years after issue date of the first bonds) this table will be extended to show redemption values for periods of holding of 20
1
⁄
2
years and beyond.
Table C—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 6 Percent Per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning February 1, 1974
Table shows the increase in redemption value for each successive half-year term of holding following the date of issue on Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning February 1, 1974. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of approximately 6 percent 1 per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b) of this circular.
1
per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b) of this circular.
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
First
1
⁄
2
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
1
⁄
2
to 1
51.50
103.00
51.500
1,030.00
1 to 1
1
⁄
2
53.05
106.10
530.50
1,061.00
1
1
⁄
2
to 2
54.64
109.28
546.40
1,092.80
2 to 2
1
⁄
2
56.28
112.56
562.80
1,125.60
2
1
⁄
2
to 3
57.96
115.92
579.60
1,159.20
3 to 3
1
⁄
2
59.70
119.40
597.00
1,194.00
3
1
⁄
2
to 4
61.49
122.98
614.90
1,229.80
4 to 4
1
⁄
2
63.34
126.68
633.40
1,266.80
4
1
⁄
2
to 5
65.24
130.48
652.40
1,304.80
5 to 5
1
⁄
2
67.20
134.40
672.00
1,344.00
5
1
⁄
2
to 6
69.21
138.42
692.10
1,384.20
6 to 6
1
⁄
2
71.29
142.58
712.90
1,425.80
6
1
⁄
2
to 7
73.43
146.86
734.30
1,468.60
7 to 7
1
⁄
2
75.63
151.26
756.30
1,512.60
712 to 8
77.90
155.80
779.00
1,558.00
8 to 8
1
⁄
2
80.24
160.48
802.40
1,604.80
8
1
⁄
2
to 9
82.64
165.28
826.40
1,652.80
9 to 9
1
⁄
2
85.12
170.24
851.20
1,702.40
9
1
⁄
2
to 10
87.68
175.36
876.80
1,753.60
10 to 10
1
⁄
2
90.31
180.62
903.10
1,806.20
10
1
⁄
2
to 11
93.01
186.02
930.10
1,860.20
11 to 11
1
⁄
2
95.81
191.62
958.10
1,916.20
11
1
⁄
2
to 12
98.68
197.36
986.80
1,973.60
12 to 12
1
⁄
2
101.64
203.28
1,016.40
2,032.80
12
1
⁄
2
to 13
104.69
209.38
1,046.90
2,093.80
13 to 13
1
⁄
2
107.83
215.66
1,078.30
2,156.60
13
1
⁄
2
to 14
111.06
222.12
1,110.60
2,221.20
14 to 14
1
⁄
2
114.40
228.80
1,144.00
2,288.00
14
1
⁄
2
to 15
117.83
235.66
1,178.30
2,356.60
15 to 15
1
⁄
2
121.36
242.72
1,213.60
2,427.20
15
1
⁄
2
to 16
125.00
250.00
1,250.00
2,500.00
16 to 16
1
⁄
2
128.75
257.50
1,287.50
2,575.00
16
1
⁄
2
to 17
132.62
265.24
1,326.20
2,652.40
17 to 17
1
⁄
2
136.60
273.20
1,366.00
2,732.00
17
1
⁄
2
to 18
140.69
281.38
1,406.90
2,813.80
18 to 18
1
⁄
2
144.91
289.82
1,449.10
2,898.20
18
1
⁄
2
to 19
149.26
298.52
1,492.60
2,985.20
19 to 19
1
⁄
2
153.74
307.48
1,537.40
3,074.80
19
1
⁄
2
to 20
158.35
316.70
1,583.50
3,167.00
20 to 20
1
⁄
2
163.10
326.20
1,631.00
3,262.00
1
Based on redemption values of $1,000 bond.
Table D—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 6.50 Percent Per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning Aug. 1, 1979
Table shows the increase in redemption value for each successive half-year term of holding following the date of issue on Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning August 1, 1979. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of approximately 6.50 percent 1 per annum, compounded semi-annually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b) of this circular. 2
1
per annum, compounded semi-annually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b) of this circular.
2
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50
$100
$500
$1,000
First
1
⁄
2
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
1
⁄
2
to 1
51.62
103.24
516.20
1,032.40
1 to 1
1
⁄
2
53.30
106.60
533.00
1,066.00
1
1
⁄
2
to 2
55.04
110.08
550.40
1,100.80
2 to 2
1
⁄
2
56.82
113.64
568.20
1,136.40
2
1
⁄
2
to 3
58.68
117.36
586.80
1,173.60
3 to 3
1
⁄
2
60.58
121.16
605.80
1,211.60
3
1
⁄
2
to 4
62.54
125.08
625.40
1,250.80
4 to 4
1
⁄
2
64.58
129.16
645.80
1,291.60
4
1
⁄
2
to 5
66.68
133.36
666.80
1,333.60
5 to 5
1
⁄
2
68.84
137.68
688.40
1,376.80
5
1
⁄
2
to 6
71.08
142.16
710.80
1,421.60
6 to 6
1
⁄
2
73.40
146.80
734.00
1,468.00
6
1
⁄
2
to 7
75.78
151.56
757.80
1,515.60
7 to 7
1
⁄
2
78.24
156.48
782.40
1,564.80
7
1
⁄
2
to 8
80.78
161.56
807.80
1,615.60
8 to 8
1
⁄
2
83.40
166.80
834.00
1,668.00
8
1
⁄
2
to 9
86.12
172.24
861.20
1,722.40
9 to 9
1
⁄
2
88.92
177.84
889.20
1,778.40
9
1
⁄
2
to 10
91.80
183.60
918.00
1,836.00
10 to 10
1
⁄
2
94.80
189.60
948.00
1,896.00
10
1
⁄
2
to 11
97.88
195.76
978.80
1,957.60
11 to 11
1
⁄
2
101.06
202.12
1,010.60
2,021.20
11
1
⁄
2
to 12
104.34
208.68
1,043.40
2,086.80
12 to 12
1
⁄
2
107.72
215.44
1,077.20
2,154.40
12
1
⁄
2
to 13
111.22
222.44
1,112.20
2,224.40
13 to 13
1
⁄
2
114.84
229.68
1,148.40
2,296.80
13
1
⁄
2
to 14
118.58
237.16
1,185.80
2,371.60
14 to 14
1
⁄
2
122.44
244.88
1,224.40
2,448.80
14
1
⁄
2
to 15
126.42
252.84
1,264.20
2,528.40
15 to 15
1
⁄
2
130.52
261.04
1,305.20
2,610.40
15
1
⁄
2
to 16
134.76
269.52
1,347.60
2,695.20
16 to 16
1
⁄
2
139.14
278.28
1,391.40
2,782.80
16
1
⁄
2
to 17
143.66
287.32
1,436.60
2,873.20
17 to 17
1
⁄
2
148.34
296.68
1,483.40
2,966.80
17
1
⁄
2
to 18
153.16
306.32
1,531.60
3,063.20
18 to 18
1
⁄
2
158.12
316.24
1,581.20
3,162.40
18
1
⁄
2
to 19
163.26
326.52
1,632.60
3,265.20
19 to 19
1
⁄
2
168.58
337.16
1,685.80
3,371.60
19
1
⁄
2
to 20
174.06
348.12
1,740.60
3,481.20
20 to 20
1
⁄
2
179.72
359.44
1,797.20
3,594.40
1
Based on redemption values of $1,000 bond.
2
At a future date prior to Aug. 1, 1999 (20 years after issue date of the first bonds) this table will be extended to show redemption values for periods of holding of 20
1
⁄
2
years and beyond.
Table E—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 8.00 Percent Per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning November 1, 1980
Note: This table shows how Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning November 1, 1980, by denomination, increase in redemption value during successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of 8.00 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b).
Note:
This table shows how Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning November 1, 1980, by denomination, increase in redemption value during successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of 8.00 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b).
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
First half year
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
.5 to 1.0
52.00
104.00
520.00
1,040.00
1.0 to 1.5
54.08
108.16
540.80
1,081.60
1.5 to 2.0
56.24
112.48
562.40
1,124.80
2.0 to 2.5
58.50
117.00
585.00
1,170.00
2.5 to 3.0
60.84
121.68
608.40
1,216.80
3.0 to 3.5
63.26
126.52
632.60
1,265.20
3.5 to 4.0
65.80
131.60
658.00
1,316.00
4.0 to 4.5
68.42
136.84
684.20
1,368.40
4.5 to 5.0
71.16
141.32
711.60
1,423.20
5.0 to 5.5
74.02
148.04
740.20
1,480.40
5.5 to 6.0
76.98
153.96
769.80
1,539.60
6.0 to 6.5
80.06
160.12
800.60
1,601.20
6.5 to 7.0
83.26
166.52
832.60
1,665.20
7.0 to 7.5
86.58
173.16
865.80
1,731.60
7.5 to 8.0
90.04
180.08
900.40
1,800.80
8.0 to 8.5
93.64
187.28
936.40
1,872.80
8.5 to 9.0
97.40
194.80
974.00
1,948.00
9.0 to 9.5
101.30
202.60
1,013.00
2,026.00
9.5 to 10.0
105.34
210.68
1,053.40
2,106.80
10.0 to 10.5
109.56
219.12
1,095.60
2,191.20
10.5 to 11.0
113.94
227.88
1,139.40
2,278.80
11.0 to 11.5
118.50
237.00
1,185.00
2,370.00
11.5 to 12.0
123.24
246.48
1,232.40
2,464.80
12.0 to 12.5
128.16
256.32
1,281.60
2,563.20
12.5 to 13.0
133.30
266.60
1,333.00
2,666.00
13.0 to 13.5
138.62
277.24
1,386.20
2,772.40
13.5 to 14.0
144.16
288.32
1,441.60
2,883.20
14.0 to 14.5
149.94
299.88
1,499.40
2,998.80
14.5 to 15.0
155.94
311.88
1,559.40
3,118.80
15.0 to 15.5
162.16
324.32
1,621.60
3,243.20
15.5 to 16.0
168.66
337.32
1,686.60
3,373.20
16.0 to 16.5
175.40
350.80
1,754.00
3,508.00
16.5 to 17.0
182.42
364.84
1,824.20
3,648.40
17.0 to 17.5
189.72
379.44
1,897.20
3,794.40
17.5 to 18.0
197.30
394.60
1,973.00
3,946.00
18.0 to 18.5
205.20
410.40
2,052.00
4,104.00
18.5 to 19.0
213.40
426.80
2,134.00
4,268.00
19.0 to 19.5
221.94
443.88
2,219.40
4,438.80
19.5 to 20.0
230.82
461.64
2,308.20
4,616.40
20.0 to 20.5
240.06
480.12
2,400.60
4,801.20
Table F—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 9.00 Percent Per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning October 1, 1981
Note: This table shows how Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning October 1, 1981, by denomination, increase in redemption value during successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of 9.00 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b).
Note:
This table shows how Retirement Plan Bonds bearing issue dates beginning October 1, 1981, by denomination, increase in redemption value during successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values have been determined to provide an investment yield of 9.00 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. The period to maturity is indeterminate in accordance with the provisions of § 341.1(b).
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
First half year
$50.00
$100.00
$500.00
$1,000.00
.5 to 1.0
52.24
104.48
522.40
1,044.80
1.0 to 1.5
54.60
109.20
546.00
1,092.00
1.5 to 2.0
57.06
114.12
570.60
1,141.20
2.0 to 2.5
59.62
119.24
596.20
1,192.40
2.5 to 3.0
62.30
124.60
623.00
1,246.00
3.0 to 3.5
65.12
130.24
651.20
1,302.40
3.5 to 4.0
68.04
136.08
680.40
1,360.80
4.0 to 4.5
71.10
142.20
711.00
1,422.00
4.5 to 5.0
74.30
148.60
743.00
1,486.00
5.0 to 5.5
77.64
155.28
776.40
1,552.80
5.5 to 6.0
81.14
162.28
811.40
1,622.80
6.0 to 6.5
84.80
169.60
848.00
1,696.00
6.5 to 7.0
88.60
177.20
886.00
1,772.00
7.0 to 7.5
92.60
185.20
926.00
1,852.00
7.5 to 8.0
96.76
193.52
967.60
1,935.20
8.0 to 8.5
101.12
202.24
1,011.20
2,022.40
8.5 to 9.0
105.66
211.32
1,056.60
2,113.20
9.0 to 9.5
110.42
220.84
1,104.20
2,208.40
9.5 to 10.0
115.40
230.80
1,154.00
2,308.00
10.0 to 10.5
120.58
241.16
1,205.80
2,411.60
10.5 to 11.0
126.02
252.04
1,260.20
2,520.40
11.0 to 11.5
131.68
263.36
1,316.80
2,633.60
11.5 to 12.0
137.60
275.20
1,376.00
2,752.00
12.0 to 12.5
143.80
287.60
1,438.00
2,876.00
12.5 to 13.0
150.28
300.56
1,502.80
3,005.60
13.0 to 13.5
157.04
314.08
1,570.40
3,140.80
13.5 to 14.0
164.10
328.20
1,641.00
3,282.00
14.0 to 14.5
171.48
342.96
1,714.80
3,429.60
14.5 to 15.0
179.20
358.40
1,792.00
3,584.00
15.0 to 15.5
187.26
374.52
1,872.60
3,745.20
15.5 to 16.0
195.70
391.40
1,957.00
3,914.00
16.0 to 16.5
204.50
409.00
2,045.00
4,090.00
16.5 to 17.0
213.70
427.40
2,137.00
4,274.00
17.0 to 17.5
223.32
446.64
2,233.20
4,466.40
17.5 to 18.0
233.36
466.72
2,333.60
4,667.20
18.0 to 18.5
243.86
487.72
2,438.60
4,877.20
18.5 to 19.0
254.84
509.68
2,548.40
5,096.80
19.0 to 19.5
266.32
532.64
2,663.20
5,326.40
19.5 to 20.0
278.30
556.60
2,783.00
5,566.00
20.0 to 20.5
290.82
581.64
2,908.20
5,816.40
[[28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 31 FR 7625, May 27, 1966; 35 FR 224, Jan. 7, 1970; 39 FR 4661, Feb. 6, 1974; 45 FR 53393, Aug. 11, 1980; 46 FR 60573, Dec. 11, 1981]]

PART 342—OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS NOTES

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3103, 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3103, 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:57 FR 14282, Apr. 17, 1992, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
57 FR 14282, Apr. 17, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

§ 342.0   Offering of notes.

The Secretary of the Treasury offered for sale to the people of the United States, United States Savings Notes (also known as “Freedom Shares”, and generally referred to herein as “savings notes” or “notes”). The notes could be purchased only in combination with Series E savings bonds of the same or greater denomination. This offering was effective from May 1, 1967 until the close of business October 31, 1970 when the sale of savings notes was terminated by the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 342.1   Definition of words and terms used in this part.

(a) Payroll savings plan refers to a voluntary program maintained by an employer whereby its participating officers and employees authorize regular withholdings from their salaries or wages for the purchase of savings bonds.
Payroll savings plan
refers to a voluntary program maintained by an employer whereby its participating officers and employees authorize regular withholdings from their salaries or wages for the purchase of savings bonds.
(b) Quarter refers to a 3-month period of a year, as follows: January-February-March, April-May-June, July-August-September, or October-November-December.
Quarter
refers to a 3-month period of a year, as follows: January-February-March, April-May-June, July-August-September, or October-November-December.

§ 342.2   Description of notes.

(a) General. Savings notes were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable.
General.
Savings notes were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable.
(b) Term. A savings note was dated as of the first day of the month in which payment of the purchase price was received by an issuing agent. A note had an original maturity period of 4 years and 6 months and has been granted two 10-year extensions of maturity and an additional extension of 5 years and 6 months with interest; it will reach final maturity 30 years from its issue date. A note cannot be called by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity and was not redeemable during the first year from issue date. Thereafter, a note may be redeemed at the option and request of the owner.
Term.
A savings note was dated as of the first day of the month in which payment of the purchase price was received by an issuing agent. A note had an original maturity period of 4 years and 6 months and has been granted two 10-year extensions of maturity and an additional extension of 5 years and 6 months with interest; it will reach final maturity 30 years from its issue date. A note cannot be called by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity and was not redeemable during the first year from issue date. Thereafter, a note may be redeemed at the option and request of the owner.
(c) Denominations and purchase prices. Savings notes were issued on a discount basis. The denominations and purchase prices were as follows:
Denominations and purchase prices.
Savings notes were issued on a discount basis. The denominations and purchase prices were as follows:
Denomination
Purchase price
$25
$20.25
50
40.50
75
60.75
100
81.00
Interest is paid as a part of the redemption value. A note increased in value one year after issue date and increases at the beginning of each half-year period thereafter until final maturity, at which time interest ceases to accrue. Interest on a note which is redeemed before maturity ceases to accrue at the end of the interest period next preceding the redemption date, except that if the note is redeemed on a date on which the redemption value increases, interest ceases to accrue on that date.
(d) Inscription and issue. At the time of issue, the authorized issuing agent:
Inscription and issue.
At the time of issue, the authorized issuing agent:
(1) Inscribed on the face of each note the name and address of the owner and the name of the beneficiary, if any, or the names of the coowner;
(2) Entered the issue date in the right-hand portion of the note in the space provided for that purpose; and
(3) Imprinted thereunder, by use of the agent's validation indicia for the issue of Series E savings bonds, the date the note was actually inscribed. A note is valid only if an authorized issuing agent received payment therefor and duly inscribed, dated, imprinted validation indicia on the note and delivered it.

§ 342.3   Extended terms and yields for outstanding notes.

(a) Extended maturity periods. The terms extended maturity period and second extended maturity period refer to the 10-year intervals after the original maturity dates during which owners may retain their savings notes and continue to earn interest thereon. The term third extended maturity period refers to the final interval of 5 years and 6 months during which owners may retain notes and continue to earn interest until final maturity, which occurs 30 years after issue date. No special action is required of owners to take advantage of any extension heretofore or herein granted. The following table describes the previous and final maturities of savings notes:
Extended maturity periods.
The terms
extended maturity period
and
second extended maturity period
refer to the 10-year intervals after the original maturity dates during which owners may retain their savings notes and continue to earn interest thereon. The term
third extended maturity period
refers to the final interval of 5 years and 6 months during which owners may retain notes and continue to earn interest until final maturity, which occurs 30 years after issue date. No special action is required of owners to take advantage of any extension heretofore or herein granted. The following table describes the previous and final maturities of savings notes:
Issue dates—1st day of
Previous maturities
Previous maturity dates—1st day of
yrs.
mos.
May 1967-Oct. 1970
24
6
Nov. 1991-Apr. 1995.
Issue dates—1st day of
Additional extended maturity period
Life of notes—yrs.
yrs.
mos.
May 1967-Oct. 1970
5
6
30
Issue dates—1st day of
Final maturity dates—1st day of
May 1967-Oct. 1970
May 1997-Oct. 2000
(b) Guaranteed minimum investment yield—(1) General. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the guaranteed minimum investment yields for outstanding savings notes are as follows:
Guaranteed minimum investment yield
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the guaranteed minimum investment yields for outstanding savings notes are as follows:
(i) For savings notes in extended maturity periods prior to November 1, 1982, the guaranteed minimum investment yield was 8.5 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, effective for the period from the first semiannual interest accrual date on or after May 1, 1981, through their next extended maturity dates on or after November 1, 1982.
(ii) For savings notes that entered extended maturity periods during the period of November 1, 1982, through October 1, 1986, the guaranteed minimum investment yield was 7.5 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, for such periods, including notes that entered into an extended maturity period, as shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
Entered—1st day of
May 1968-Oct. 1970
2nd
Nov. 1982-Apr. 1985.
(iii) For savings notes that entered into extended maturity periods during the period of November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993, the guaranteed minimum investment yield is 6 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, for such periods, including notes that entered into an extended maturity period, as shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
Entered—1st day of
May 1967-Aug. 1968
3rd (final)
Nov. 1991-Feb. 1993.
(iv) For savings notes that entered or enter extended maturity periods on or after March 1, 1993, the guaranteed minimum investment yield is 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, for such periods, or the investment yield in effect at the beginning of such periods, including notes that enter into an extended maturity period, as shown below:
Issue dates—1st day of—
Extension
Entered—1st day of
Sep. 1968-Oct. 1970
3rd (final)
Mar. 1993-Apr. 1995.
(2) Eleven-year bonus. If a savings note was held for the 11-year period beginning with the first semiannual interest accrual date that occurred on or after January 1, 1980, its guaranteed minimum investment yield for such period was increased by one-half of one percent per annum, compounded semiannually.
Eleven-year bonus.
If a savings note was held for the 11-year period beginning with the first semiannual interest accrual date that occurred on or after January 1, 1980, its guaranteed minimum investment yield for such period was increased by one-half of one percent per annum, compounded semiannually.
(c) Market-based variable investment yield. In order to be eligible for the market-based variable investment yield, notes had to be held at least five years beginning with the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982. The market-based variable investment yield shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury as follows:
Market-based variable investment yield.
In order to be eligible for the market-based variable investment yield, notes had to be held at least five years beginning with the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982. The market-based variable investment yield shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury as follows:
(1) For each 6-month period, starting with the period beginning May 1, 1982, the average market yield on outstanding marketable Treasury securities with a remaining term to maturity of approximately 5 years during such period as determined. Such determination by the Secretary of the Treasury or his or her delegate shall be final and conclusive.
(2) For notes which entered an extended maturity period prior to May 1, 1989, the market-based variable investment yield from the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 to each semiannual interest accrual date occuring on or after November 1, 1987, will be 85 percent, rounded to the nearest one-fourth of one percent, of the arithmetic average of the market yield averages, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for the appropriate number of 6-month periods involved, starting with the period beginning May 1, 1982.
(3) For notes which entered an extended maturity period on or after May 1, 1989, the market-based variable investment yield from the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1989, will be 85 percent, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent, of the arithmetic average of the market yield averages, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the appropriate number of 6-month periods involved, starting with the period beginning May 1, 1982.
(d) Determination of redemption values during any extended maturity period. The redemption value of a note on a given interest accrual date during any extended maturity period will be the higher of the value produced by using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield or the value produced by using the appropriate market-based variable investment yield. The calculation of these values is described below:
Determination of redemption values during any extended maturity period.
The redemption value of a note on a given interest accrual date during any extended maturity period will be the higher of the value produced by using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield or the value produced by using the appropriate market-based variable investment yield. The calculation of these values is described below:
(1) Guaranteed minimum investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period. A note has a guaranteed minimum investment yield for each of its extended maturity periods. The applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield for the current extended maturity period and any subsequent periods are specified in paragraph (b) of this section. In order to determine the value of a note during an extended maturity period, the value of the note either at the end of the next preceding maturity period or when the guaranteed minimum investment yield last increased, 
1
 whichever occurs later, is determined using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield. This value is then used as the base upon which interest accrues during the extended maturity period at the guaranteed minimum investment yield in effect for savings bonds at the beginning of that period. The resulting semiannual values are then compared with the corresponding values determined by using the applicable market-based variable investment yields.
Guaranteed minimum investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period.
A note has a guaranteed minimum investment yield for each of its extended maturity periods. The applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield for the current extended maturity period and any subsequent periods are specified in paragraph (b) of this section. In order to determine the value of a note during an extended maturity period, the value of the note either at the end of the next preceding maturity period or when the guaranteed minimum investment yield last increased,
1
whichever occurs later, is determined using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield. This value is then used as the base upon which interest accrues during the extended maturity period at the guaranteed minimum investment yield in effect for savings bonds at the beginning of that period. The resulting semiannual values are then compared with the corresponding values determined by using the applicable market-based variable investment yields.
1 The 11-year bonus was the last increase in the guaranteed minimum investment yield (see paragraph (b)(2)). Savings notes which were eligible to receive this bonus received it on the first semiannual interest accrual date which occurred on or after January 1, 1991.
1
The 11-year bonus was the last increase in the guaranteed minimum investment yield (see paragraph (b)(2)). Savings notes which were eligible to receive this bonus received it on the first semiannual interest accrual date which occurred on or after January 1, 1991.
(2) Market-based variable investment yield and resulting values during and extended maturity period. The market-based variable investment yield from the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1987, is determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The value of a note on its first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 is used as the base upon which interest accrues during an extended maturity period at the applicable market-based variable investment yield. If redeemed, the note will receive the higher of the two values produced by using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield and the applicable market-based variable investment yield.
Market-based variable investment yield and resulting values during and extended maturity period.
The market-based variable investment yield from the first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1987, is determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. The value of a note on its first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982 is used as the base upon which interest accrues during an extended maturity period at the applicable market-based variable investment yield. If redeemed, the note will receive the higher of the two values produced by using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield and the applicable market-based variable investment yield.
(e) Market-based variable investment yields and tables of redemption values. The market-based variable investment yields for notes redeemed during each 6-month period, beginning on May 1 and November 1 of each year, are made available prior to each of those dates by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328, accompanied by tables of the redemption values of notes for the following 6 months, based on either the applicable market-based variable investment yields or guaranteed minimum investment yields.
Market-based variable investment yields and tables of redemption values.
The market-based variable investment yields for notes redeemed during each 6-month period, beginning on May 1 and November 1 of each year, are made available prior to each of those dates by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328, accompanied by tables of the redemption values of notes for the following 6 months, based on either the applicable market-based variable investment yields or guaranteed minimum investment yields.
[[57 FR 14282, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 60937, 60938, Nov. 18, 1993]]

§ 342.4   Purchase—registration.

(a) Purchase. Savings notes, in combination with Series E bonds, could be purchased from any authorized issuing agent, a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Payment for the notes could be made in the same manner as payment for Series E savings bonds. Issuing agents delivered the notes at the time of purchase, or by mail at the risk and expense of the United States, but only within the United States, its territories and possessions and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. No mail deliveries elsewhere were made.
Purchase.
Savings notes, in combination with Series E bonds, could be purchased from any authorized issuing agent, a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Payment for the notes could be made in the same manner as payment for Series E savings bonds. Issuing agents delivered the notes at the time of purchase, or by mail at the risk and expense of the United States, but only within the United States, its territories and possessions and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. No mail deliveries elsewhere were made.
(b) Registration. The following restrictions applied to original issues of savings notes:
Registration.
The following restrictions applied to original issues of savings notes:
(1) They were limited to registration in the name of a natural person (whether adult or minor), alone, or with another natural person as coowner or beneficiary, and
(2) They had to be identical in registration to the Series E bond purchased in combination therewith.

§ 342.5   Limitations.

(a) Purchases—(1) Payroll savings plans. Under a payroll savings plan, withholdings for notes could not exceed the ratio of $1.08 for the notes to $1 for the Series E bonds and could not exceed $20.25 per weekly pay period, or $40.50 per biweekly or semi-monthly pay period, or $81 per monthly pay period.
Purchases
—(1)
Payroll savings plans.
Under a payroll savings plan, withholdings for notes could not exceed the ratio of $1.08 for the notes to $1 for the Series E bonds and could not exceed $20.25 per weekly pay period, or $40.50 per biweekly or semi-monthly pay period, or $81 per monthly pay period.
(2) Others. In combination purchases of notes and Series E bonds, other than under a payroll savings plan, purchases of notes could not exceed $350 (face amount) a quarter, and in no event could the annual limitation of $1,350 (face amount) be exceeded.
Others.
In combination purchases of notes and Series E bonds, other than under a payroll savings plan, purchases of notes could not exceed $350 (face amount) a quarter, and in no event could the annual limitation of $1,350 (face amount) be exceeded.
(b) Holdings. The face amount of savings notes originally issued to any one person during any one calendar year, was limited to $1,350.
Holdings.
The face amount of savings notes originally issued to any one person during any one calendar year, was limited to $1,350.

§ 342.6   Taxation.

(a) General. For the purpose of determining taxes and tax exemptions, the increment in value represented by the difference between the purchase price and the redemption value received for a savings note is considered interest. The interest is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The notes are subject to estate, inheritance, gift, or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all other taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, or any of the possessions of the United States, or by any local taxing authority.
General.
For the purpose of determining taxes and tax exemptions, the increment in value represented by the difference between the purchase price and the redemption value received for a savings note is considered interest. The interest is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The notes are subject to estate, inheritance, gift, or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all other taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, or any of the possessions of the United States, or by any local taxing authority.
(b) Federal income tax on notes. An owner of savings notes who is a cash-basis taxpayer may use either of two methods for reporting the increase in the redemption value of the notes for Federal income tax purposes, as follows:
Federal income tax on notes.
An owner of savings notes who is a cash-basis taxpayer may use either of two methods for reporting the increase in the redemption value of the notes for Federal income tax purposes, as follows:
(1) Defer reporting of the increase to the year of final maturity, actual redemption, or other disposition, whichever is earlier; or
(2) Elect to report the increase for the year in which it accrues, in which case the election applies to all savings notes then owned and those subsequently acquired, as well as to any other similar obligations purchased on a discount basis.
If the method in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is used, the taxpayer may change to the method in paragraph (b)(2) of this section without obtaining permission from the Internal Revenue Service. However, once the election to use the method in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is made, the taxpayer may not change the method of reporting without permission from the Internal Revenue Service. For further information on Federal income taxes, the Service Center Director or District Director, Internal Revenue Service, of the taxpayer's district should be contacted.

§ 342.7   Payment or redemption.

(a) General. A savings note is redeemable any time one year or more after the issue date upon its presentation and surrender, with a duly executed request for payment, to any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch referred to in § 342.9, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or to any financial institution designated as a paying agent of savings bonds.
General.
A savings note is redeemable any time one year or more after the issue date upon its presentation and surrender, with a duly executed request for payment, to any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch referred to in § 342.9, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or to any financial institution designated as a paying agent of savings bonds.
(b) Judgment creditors. Payment of a savings note to the purchaser at a sale under a levy, or to the officer authorized to levy upon the property of the owner under appropriate process to satisfy a money judgment, could not be made until one year after the issue date of the note.
Judgment creditors.
Payment of a savings note to the purchaser at a sale under a levy, or to the officer authorized to levy upon the property of the owner under appropriate process to satisfy a money judgment, could not be made until one year after the issue date of the note.
[[57 FR 14282, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 10540, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 342.8   Governing regulations.

Savings notes are subject to the regulations of the Department of the Treasury, now or hereafter prescribed, governing United States Savings Bonds, contained in 31 CFR part 315, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular No. 530, current revision, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.

§ 342.9   Fiscal agents.

(a) Federal Reserve Banks and Branches referred to below, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury, or his or her delegate, in connection with the issue, redemption and payment of savings notes.
(b)(1) The following Federal Reserve Offices have been designated to provide savings bond services:
Servicing office
Reserve districts served
Geographic area served
Federal Reserve Bank, Buffalo Branch, P.O. Box 961, Buffalo, NY 14240
New York, Boston
CT, MA, ME, NH, NJ (northern half), NY (City & State), RI, VT, Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands.
Federal Reserve Bank, Pittsburgh Branch, P.O. Box 867, Pittsburgh, PA 15230
Cleveland, Philadelphia
DE, KY (eastern half), NJ (southern half), OH, PA, WV (northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, P.O. Box 27622, Richmond, VA 23261
Richmond, Atlanta
AL, DC, FL, LA (southern half), MD, MS (southern half), NC, SC, TN (eastern half), VA, WV (except northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 250 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55480
Minneapolis, Chicago
IA, IL (northern half), IN (northern half), MN, MT, ND, SD, WI.
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 925 Grand Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64198
Dallas, San Francisco, Kansas City, St. Louis
AK, AR, AZ, CA, CO, HI, ID, IL (southern half), IN (southern half), KS, KY (western half), LA (northern half), MO, MS (northern half), NE, NM, NV, OK, OR, TN (western half), TX, WA, WY, UT and GU.
(2) Until March 1, 1996, other Federal Reserve Offices may continue to provide some savings bond services, but such services will be phased out over the period prior to that date.
[[59 FR 10540, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 342.10   Reservations.

(a) Issue of notes. The Secretary of the Treasury reserved the right to reject any application for purchase of savings notes, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued hereunder any such notes in any case or any class or classes of cases if such action was deemed to be in the public interest. Any action in any such respect was final.
Issue of notes.
The Secretary of the Treasury reserved the right to reject any application for purchase of savings notes, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued hereunder any such notes in any case or any class or classes of cases if such action was deemed to be in the public interest. Any action in any such respect was final.
(b) Terms. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this part, or of any amendments or supplements thereto.
Terms.
The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this part, or of any amendments or supplements thereto.

PART 343—REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE OFFERING OF UNITED STATES MORTGAGE GUARANTY INSURANCE COMPANY TAX AND LOSS BONDS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 26 U.S.C. 832; 31 U.S.C. 3102.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 26 U.S.C. 832; 31 U.S.C. 3102.
[Source:62 FR 49914, Sept. 24, 1997, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
62 FR 49914, Sept. 24, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 343.0   Offering of bonds.

The Secretary of the Treasury, under the authority of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, and pursuant to paragraph 832(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, offers for sale only to companies organized and engaged in the business of writing mortgage guaranty insurance within the United States, bonds of the United States designated as Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Company Tax and Loss Bonds, hereinafter referred to as tax and loss bonds. The bonds are issued in a minimum amount of $1,000 or in any larger amount, in increments of not less than $1.00. This offering will continue until terminated by the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 343.1   General provisions.

(a) Regulations. Tax and loss bonds are subject to the general regulations with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in the Department of the Treasury Circular No. 300 (31 CFR part 306), to the extent applicable. Copies of the circular may be obtained from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Special Investments, Room 309, 200 Third St., P.O. Box 396, Parkersburg, WV 26106-0396 or downloaded from Fiscal Service's home page on the Internet at: http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/.
Regulations.
Tax and loss bonds are subject to the general regulations with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in the Department of the Treasury Circular No. 300 (31 CFR part 306), to the extent applicable. Copies of the circular may be obtained from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Special Investments, Room 309, 200 Third St., P.O. Box 396, Parkersburg, WV 26106-0396 or downloaded from Fiscal Service's home page on the Internet at:
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/.
(b) Issuance. Tax and loss bonds are issued in book-entry form on the books of the Treasury that are maintained by the Division of Special Investments. The bonds are issued with 10 or 20 year maturities as designated by the purchaser. These bonds are non-interest bearing. Any transfer by sale, exchange, assignment, pledge or otherwise, is prohibited. The bonds may be reissued as provided in § 343.4.
Issuance.
Tax and loss bonds are issued in book-entry form on the books of the Treasury that are maintained by the Division of Special Investments. The bonds are issued with 10 or 20 year maturities as designated by the purchaser. These bonds are non-interest bearing. Any transfer by sale, exchange, assignment, pledge or otherwise, is prohibited. The bonds may be reissued as provided in § 343.4.
(c) Fiscal agents. Selected Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, may be designated to perform such services requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the purchase, redemption and other transactions involving these bonds.
Fiscal agents.
Selected Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, may be designated to perform such services requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the purchase, redemption and other transactions involving these bonds.
(d) Debt limit contingency. The Department of the Treasury reserves the right to change or suspend the terms and conditions of this offering, including provisions relating to the purchase of, and redemption of, the bonds as well as notices relating hereto, at any time the Secretary determines that the issuance of obligations sufficient to conduct the orderly financing operations of the United States cannot be made without exceeding the statutory debt limit. Announcement of such changes shall be provided by such means as the Secretary deems appropriate.
Debt limit contingency.
The Department of the Treasury reserves the right to change or suspend the terms and conditions of this offering, including provisions relating to the purchase of, and redemption of, the bonds as well as notices relating hereto, at any time the Secretary determines that the issuance of obligations sufficient to conduct the orderly financing operations of the United States cannot be made without exceeding the statutory debt limit. Announcement of such changes shall be provided by such means as the Secretary deems appropriate.
(e) General redemption provisions. A bond may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity. When the bond matures, payment will be made of the principal amount due to the owner. A bond scheduled for maturity on a non-business day will be redeemed on the next business day.
General redemption provisions.
A bond may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity. When the bond matures, payment will be made of the principal amount due to the owner. A bond scheduled for maturity on a non-business day will be redeemed on the next business day.
(f) Reservations. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this circular or any related amendments or supplements. Transaction requests, including purchases or redemptions of bonds, are not acceptable if unsigned, inappropriately completed, or not timely submitted. Any of these actions shall be final. The authority of the Secretary to waive regulations under 31 CFR 306.126 applies to part 343.
Reservations.
The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this circular or any related amendments or supplements. Transaction requests, including purchases or redemptions of bonds, are not acceptable if unsigned, inappropriately completed, or not timely submitted. Any of these actions shall be final. The authority of the Secretary to waive regulations under 31 CFR 306.126 applies to part 343.
(g) Forms and additional information. The application form for subscriptions, Fedwire instructions and other information will be furnished by the Division of Special Investments upon request by writing to the Division of Special Investments or by calling (304) 480-7752. Application forms may also be downloaded from the Internet at Fiscal Service's home page at: http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/.
Forms and additional information.
The application form for subscriptions, Fedwire instructions and other information will be furnished by the Division of Special Investments upon request by writing to the Division of Special Investments or by calling (304) 480-7752. Application forms may also be downloaded from the Internet at Fiscal Service's home page at:
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/.

Subpart B—Tax and Loss Bonds


§ 343.2   Issue date and purchase.

(a) Issue date. The issue date must be a business day. The bonds will be issued as of the date of receipt of Form PD F 3871 “Application for Issue of United States Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Company Tax and Loss Bonds” and receipt of the remittance of funds for the full amount of the bond(s). Applications under this offering must be submitted to the Division of Special Investments. An application may be submitted by fax at (304) 480-7786 or (304) 480-6818, by mail, or by other carrier. Applications submitted by mail should be sent by certified or registered mail.
Issue date.
The issue date must be a business day. The bonds will be issued as of the date of receipt of Form PD F 3871 “Application for Issue of United States Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Company Tax and Loss Bonds” and receipt of the remittance of funds for the full amount of the bond(s). Applications under this offering must be submitted to the Division of Special Investments. An application may be submitted by fax at (304) 480-7786 or (304) 480-6818, by mail, or by other carrier. Applications submitted by mail should be sent by certified or registered mail.
(b) Purchase. Tax and loss bonds may only be purchased from the Division of Special Investments. The purchaser will instruct their financial institution to submit the exact amount of funds on the requested issue date to the Division of Special Investments via the Fedwire funds transfer system, with credit directed to the Treasury's General Account, according to wire instructions obtained from the Division of Special Investments (see § 343.1(g)). Full payment should be submitted by 3:00 P.M. Eastern time to ensure that settlement of the transaction occurs.
Purchase.
Tax and loss bonds may only be purchased from the Division of Special Investments. The purchaser will instruct their financial institution to submit the exact amount of funds on the requested issue date to the Division of Special Investments via the Fedwire funds transfer system, with credit directed to the Treasury's General Account, according to wire instructions obtained from the Division of Special Investments (see § 343.1(g)). Full payment should be submitted by 3:00 P.M. Eastern time to ensure that settlement of the transaction occurs.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0127)

§ 343.3   Redemption.

(a) General. Tax and loss bonds may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity, but may be redeemed in whole or in part at the owner's option at any time after three months from issue date. The Director of the Internal Revenue Service District in which the owner's principal place of business is located will be given notice of all redemptions. Partial redemptions of bonds may be requested in any whole dollar amount; however, an account balance of less than $1,000 will be redeemed in total.
General.
Tax and loss bonds may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity, but may be redeemed in whole or in part at the owner's option at any time after three months from issue date. The Director of the Internal Revenue Service District in which the owner's principal place of business is located will be given notice of all redemptions. Partial redemptions of bonds may be requested in any whole dollar amount; however, an account balance of less than $1,000 will be redeemed in total.
(b) Method of payment. Payment will be made by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) method for the owner's account at a financial institution designated by the owner. To the extent applicable, provisions of § 357.26, Payments, and provisions of 31 CFR part 370, shall govern ACH payments made under this offering. The Department of the Treasury may employ alternate payment procedures in lieu of ACH in any case or class of cases where operational considerations require such action.
Method of payment.
Payment will be made by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) method for the owner's account at a financial institution designated by the owner. To the extent applicable, provisions of § 357.26, Payments, and provisions of 31 CFR part 370, shall govern ACH payments made under this offering. The Department of the Treasury may employ alternate payment procedures in lieu of ACH in any case or class of cases where operational considerations require such action.
(c) Book-entry. Bonds will be redeemed automatically upon maturity. Payment will be made in accordance with the ACH payment instructions on file. Redemptions prior to maturity will be made upon receipt of a redemption request. Notice of redemption prior to maturity must be submitted in writing on company letterhead to the Division of Special Investments, or faxed to (304) 480-7786 or to (304) 480-6818. The notice must be received by the Division of Special Investments not less than three business days prior to the requested redemption date. It must contain the owner's name and Tax Identification Number, the requested redemption date, any changed payment routing instructions, the case number(s) to be redeemed, including original issue date(s), and the amount to be redeemed.
Book-entry.
Bonds will be redeemed automatically upon maturity. Payment will be made in accordance with the ACH payment instructions on file. Redemptions prior to maturity will be made upon receipt of a redemption request. Notice of redemption prior to maturity must be submitted in writing on company letterhead to the Division of Special Investments, or faxed to (304) 480-7786 or to (304) 480-6818. The notice must be received by the Division of Special Investments not less than three business days prior to the requested redemption date. It must contain the owner's name and Tax Identification Number, the requested redemption date, any changed payment routing instructions, the case number(s) to be redeemed, including original issue date(s), and the amount to be redeemed.
(d) Registered. To obtain redemption, a bond with the assignment for redemption properly completed and executed must be presented to the Division of Special Investments. Payment routing instructions must also be included with the bond at redemption. Upon partial redemption of a registered bond, the remaining balance will be reissued in book-entry form with the original issue and maturity date.
Registered.
To obtain redemption, a bond with the assignment for redemption properly completed and executed must be presented to the Division of Special Investments. Payment routing instructions must also be included with the bond at redemption. Upon partial redemption of a registered bond, the remaining balance will be reissued in book-entry form with the original issue and maturity date.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0127)

§ 343.4   Reissue.

(a) General. Reissue of a tax and loss bond may be made only under the conditions specified in this paragraph. A request for reissue must be made by an officer of the beneficial owner who is authorized to assign the bond for redemption. The request must be submitted to the Division of Special Investments. A bond will only be reissued in book-entry form and will bear the same issue date and maturity as the original bond.
General.
Reissue of a tax and loss bond may be made only under the conditions specified in this paragraph. A request for reissue must be made by an officer of the beneficial owner who is authorized to assign the bond for redemption. The request must be submitted to the Division of Special Investments. A bond will only be reissued in book-entry form and will bear the same issue date and maturity as the original bond.
(b) Correction of error. The reissue of a bond may be made to correct an error in the original issue upon an appropriate request, supported by satisfactory proof of the error.
Correction of error.
The reissue of a bond may be made to correct an error in the original issue upon an appropriate request, supported by satisfactory proof of the error.
(c) Change of name. An owner whose name is changed in any legal manner after the issue of the bond should submit the bond with a request for reissue, substituting the new name for the name inscribed on the bond. The signature on the request for reissue should show the new name, the legal reason which caused the change to be made and the former name. It must be supported by satisfactory proof of the change of name.
Change of name.
An owner whose name is changed in any legal manner after the issue of the bond should submit the bond with a request for reissue, substituting the new name for the name inscribed on the bond. The signature on the request for reissue should show the new name, the legal reason which caused the change to be made and the former name. It must be supported by satisfactory proof of the change of name.
(d) Legal succession. A bond registered in the name of a company which has been succeeded by another company as the result of a merger, consolidation, incorporation, reincorporation, conversion, reorganization, or which has been lawfully succeeded in any manner whereby the business or activities of the original organization are continued without substantial change, will be paid to or reissued in the name of the successor upon an appropriate request on its behalf, supported by satisfactory evidence of successorship.
Legal succession.
A bond registered in the name of a company which has been succeeded by another company as the result of a merger, consolidation, incorporation, reincorporation, conversion, reorganization, or which has been lawfully succeeded in any manner whereby the business or activities of the original organization are continued without substantial change, will be paid to or reissued in the name of the successor upon an appropriate request on its behalf, supported by satisfactory evidence of successorship.
(e) Conversion to book-entry. Although not required, any owner of tax and loss bonds held in registered form after the effective date of this regulation, may submit those bonds to the Division of Special Investments, for conversion to book-entry form.
Conversion to book-entry.
Although not required, any owner of tax and loss bonds held in registered form after the effective date of this regulation, may submit those bonds to the Division of Special Investments, for conversion to book-entry form.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0127)

§ 343.5   Taxation.

Tax and loss bonds will be exempt from all taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal by any state or any possession of the United States or of any local taxing authority.

PART 344—U.S. TREASURY SECURITIES—STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SERIES

[Authority:26 U.S.C. 141 note; 31 U.S.C. 3102, 3103, 3104, and 3121.]
Authority:
26 U.S.C. 141 note; 31 U.S.C. 3102, 3103, 3104, and 3121.
[Source:65 FR 55405, Sept. 13, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 55405, Sept. 13, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information

[Source:70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

§ 344.0   What does this part cover?

(a) What is the purpose of the SLGS securities offering? The Secretary of the Treasury (the Secretary) offers for sale non-marketable State and Local Government Series (SLGS) securities to provide issuers of tax-advantaged bonds with investments from any eligible source of funds (as defined in § 344.1) to assist issuers in complying with applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
What is the purpose of the SLGS securities offering?
The Secretary of the Treasury (the Secretary) offers for sale non-marketable State and Local Government Series (SLGS) securities to provide issuers of tax-advantaged bonds with investments from any eligible source of funds (as defined in § 344.1) to assist issuers in complying with applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(b) What types of SLGS securities are governed by this part? This part governs the following SLGS securities:
What types of SLGS securities are governed by this part?
This part governs the following SLGS securities:
(1) Time Deposit securities—may be issued as:
Time Deposit securities
—may be issued as:
(i) Certificates of indebtedness;
(ii) Notes; or
(iii) Bonds.
(2) Demand Deposit securities—may be issued as certificates of indebtedness.
Demand Deposit securities
—may be issued as certificates of indebtedness.
(c) In what denominations are SLGS securities issued? SLGS securities are issued in the following denominations:
In what denominations are SLGS securities issued?
SLGS securities are issued in the following denominations:
(1) Time Deposit securities—a minimum amount of $1,000, or in any larger whole dollar amount; and
Time Deposit securities
—a minimum amount of $1,000, or in any larger whole dollar amount; and
(2) Demand Deposit securities—a minimum amount of $1,000, or in any larger amount, in any increment.
Demand Deposit securities
—a minimum amount of $1,000, or in any larger amount, in any increment.
(d) How long is the offering in effect? The offering continues until terminated by the Secretary.
How long is the offering in effect?
The offering continues until terminated by the Secretary.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15447, Mar. 4, 2024]]

§ 344.1   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

As appropriate, the definitions of terms used in this part are those found in the relevant portions of the Internal Revenue Code and the Income Tax Regulations.
Fiscal Service's Web site refers to http://www.slgs.gov.
Fiscal Service's Web site
refers to
http://www.slgs.gov.
Business day(s) means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is open for business.
Business day(s)
means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is open for business.
Cost-free option means the use of any provision(s) in the SLGS program to exploit movements in interest rates, including, but not limited to, those designed to provide marginal flexibility to issuers in structuring their SLGS investments.
Cost-free option
means the use of any provision(s) in the SLGS program to exploit movements in interest rates, including, but not limited to, those designed to provide marginal flexibility to issuers in structuring their SLGS investments.
Current Treasury borrowing rate means the prevailing market rate, as determined by Treasury, for a Treasury security with the specified period to maturity. In the case where SLGS rates are needed for maturities currently not issued by Treasury, at our discretion, suitable proxies for Treasury securities and/or a rate setting methodology, as determined by the Secretary, may be used to derive a current Treasury borrowing rate. At any time that the Secretary establishes such proxies or a rate-setting method or determines that the methodology should be revised, we will make an announcement.
Current Treasury borrowing rate
means the prevailing market rate, as determined by Treasury, for a Treasury security with the specified period to maturity. In the case where SLGS rates are needed for maturities currently not issued by Treasury, at our discretion, suitable proxies for Treasury securities and/or a rate setting methodology, as determined by the Secretary, may be used to derive a current Treasury borrowing rate. At any time that the Secretary establishes such proxies or a rate-setting method or determines that the methodology should be revised, we will make an announcement.
Day(s) means calendar day(s).
Day(s)
means calendar day(s).
Eligible source of funds means:
Eligible source of funds
means:
(1) Any amounts that are gross proceeds of an issue of tax-advantaged bonds or are reasonably expected to become gross proceeds of such an issue of tax-advantaged bonds;
(2) Any amounts that formerly were gross proceeds of a tax-advantaged bond issue, but no longer are treated as gross proceeds of such issue as a result of the operation of the universal cap on the maximum amount treated as gross proceeds under 26 CFR 1.148-6(b)(2);
(3) Amounts held or to be held together with gross proceeds of one or more tax-advantaged bond issues in a refunding escrow, defeasance escrow, parity debt service reserve fund, or commingled fund (as defined in 26 CFR 1.148-1(b));
(4) Proceeds of a bond issue that is not an issue of tax-advantaged bonds but that refunds, or is refunded by, an issue of tax-advantaged bonds; or
(5) Any other amounts that are subject to yield limitations under the rules applicable to tax-advantaged bonds under the Internal Revenue Code (see title 26 of the U.S. Code and 26 CFR chapter I).
Governmental purpose, under this part, means the issuer's expected use of the invested funds, including but not limited to, financing a construction project, repaying a prior issue of bonds, or funding a debt service reserve. Such use must be consistent with the purposes of the Income Tax Regulations in 26 CFR part 1 under section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code. Generating gain on the proceeds of a bond issue through the use of a cost-free option in purchasing and redeeming SLGS is not a permitted governmental purpose.
Governmental purpose,
under this part, means the issuer's expected use of the invested funds, including but not limited to, financing a construction project, repaying a prior issue of bonds, or funding a debt service reserve. Such use must be consistent with the purposes of the Income Tax Regulations in 26 CFR part 1 under section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code. Generating gain on the proceeds of a bond issue through the use of a cost-free option in purchasing and redeeming SLGS is not a permitted governmental purpose.
Issuer refers to the government body or other entity that issues tax-advantaged bonds, or to a conduit borrower.
Issuer
refers to the government body or other entity that issues tax-advantaged bonds, or to a conduit borrower.
Marketable security, with reference to the types of securities that issuers are permitted to purchase with an eligible source of funds, means any security other than a SLGS security. Examples of marketable securities include Treasury securities (other than SLGS securities) and Federal agency securities.
Marketable security,
with reference to the types of securities that issuers are permitted to purchase with an eligible source of funds, means any security other than a SLGS security. Examples of marketable securities include Treasury securities (other than SLGS securities) and Federal agency securities.
SLGS rate means the current Treasury borrowing rate, less one basis point, as released daily by Treasury in a SLGS rate table. If the current Treasury borrowing rate, together with the one basis point adjustment, results in a negative rate, such corresponding SLGS rate will be set at zero.
SLGS rate
means the current Treasury borrowing rate, less one basis point, as released daily by Treasury in a SLGS rate table. If the current Treasury borrowing rate, together with the one basis point adjustment, results in a negative rate, such corresponding SLGS rate will be set at zero.
SLGS rate table means a compilation of SLGS rates available for a given day.
SLGS rate table
means a compilation of SLGS rates available for a given day.
Tax-advantaged bond means tax-advantaged bond as defined in 26 CFR 1.150-1(b).
Tax-advantaged bond
means tax-advantaged bond as defined in 26 CFR 1.150-1(b).
“We,” “us,” or “the Secretary” refers to the Secretary and the Secretary's delegates at the Department of the Treasury (Treasury), Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service). The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates.
“We,” “us,” or “the Secretary”
refers to the Secretary and the Secretary's delegates at the Department of the Treasury (Treasury), Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service). The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates.
Yield on an investment means “yield” as computed under 26 CFR 1.148-5.
Yield
on an investment means “yield” as computed under 26 CFR 1.148-5.
You or your refers to a SLGS program user or a potential SLGS program user.
You
or
your
refers to a SLGS program user or a potential SLGS program user.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 33635, June 7, 2012; 89 FR 15447, Mar. 4, 2024]]

§ 344.2   What general provisions apply to SLGS securities?

(a) What other regulations apply to SLGS securities? SLGS securities are subject to:
What other regulations apply to SLGS securities?
SLGS securities are subject to:
(1) The electronic transactions and funds transfers provisions for United States securities, part 370 of this subchapter, “Electronic Transactions and Funds Transfers Related to U.S. Securities'; and
(2) The appendix to subpart E to part 306 of this subchapter, for rules regarding computation of interest.
(b) Where are SLGS securities held? SLGS securities are issued in book-entry form on the books of Fiscal Service.
Where are SLGS securities held?
SLGS securities are issued in book-entry form on the books of Fiscal Service.
(c) Besides Fiscal Service, do any other entities administer SLGS securities? The Secretary may designate selected Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, to perform services relating to SLGS securities.
Besides Fiscal Service, do any other entities administer SLGS securities?
The Secretary may designate selected Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, to perform services relating to SLGS securities.
(d) Can SLGS securities be transferred? No. SLGS securities issued as any one type, i.e., Time Deposit or Demand Deposit, cannot be transferred for other securities of that type or any other type. Transfer of securities by sale, exchange, assignment, pledge, or otherwise is not permitted.
Can SLGS securities be transferred?
No. SLGS securities issued as any one type,
i.e.,
Time Deposit or Demand Deposit, cannot be transferred for other securities of that type or any other type. Transfer of securities by sale, exchange, assignment, pledge, or otherwise is not permitted.
(e) What certifications must the issuer or its agent provide?—(1) Agent certification. When a commercial bank or other agent submits a subscription, or performs any other transaction, on behalf of the issuer, it must certify that it is acting under the issuer's specific authorization. Ordinarily, evidence of such authority is not required.
What certifications must the issuer or its agent provide?
—(1)
Agent certification.
When a commercial bank or other agent submits a subscription, or performs any other transaction, on behalf of the issuer, it must certify that it is acting under the issuer's specific authorization. Ordinarily, evidence of such authority is not required.
(2) Yield certifications—
Yield certifications
—
(i) Purchase of SLGS securities. Upon submitting a subscription, or performing any other transaction for a SLGS security, a subscriber must certify that:
Purchase of SLGS securities.
Upon submitting a subscription, or performing any other transaction for a SLGS security, a subscriber must certify that:
(A) Marketable securities to SLGS securities. If the issuer is purchasing a SLGS security with any amount received from the sale or redemption (at the option of the holder) before maturity of any marketable security, the yield on such SLGS security does not exceed the yield at which such marketable security was sold or redeemed; and
Marketable securities to SLGS securities.
If the issuer is purchasing a SLGS security with any amount received from the sale or redemption (at the option of the holder) before maturity of any marketable security, the yield on such SLGS security does not exceed the yield at which such marketable security was sold or redeemed; and
(B) Time deposit securities to SLGS securities. If the issuer is purchasing a SLGS security with any amount received from the redemption before maturity of a Time Deposit security (other than a zero interest Time Deposit security), the yield on the SLGS security being purchased does not exceed the yield that was used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds for such redeemed Time Deposit security.
Time deposit securities to SLGS securities.
If the issuer is purchasing a SLGS security with any amount received from the redemption before maturity of a Time Deposit security (other than a zero interest Time Deposit security), the yield on the SLGS security being purchased does not exceed the yield that was used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds for such redeemed Time Deposit security.
(ii) Early redemption of SLGS securities. Upon submission of a request for redemption before maturity of a Time Deposit security (other than a zero interest Time Deposit security) subscribed for on or after August 15, 2005, the subscriber must certify that no amount received from the redemption will be invested at a yield that exceeds the yield that is used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds for such redeemed Time Deposit security.
Early redemption of SLGS securities.
Upon submission of a request for redemption before maturity of a Time Deposit security (other than a zero interest Time Deposit security) subscribed for on or after August 15, 2005, the subscriber must certify that no amount received from the redemption will be invested at a yield that exceeds the yield that is used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds for such redeemed Time Deposit security.
(3) Duration certification. For each subscription to purchase a Time Deposit SLGS security, the subscriber must certify that the term of the SLGS security subscribed for is no longer than is reasonably necessary to accomplish the issuer's governmental purpose for its purchase of the SLGS security.
Duration certification.
For each subscription to purchase a Time Deposit SLGS security, the subscriber must certify that the term of the SLGS security subscribed for is no longer than is reasonably necessary to accomplish the issuer's governmental purpose for its purchase of the SLGS security.
(4) Eligibility certification. For each subscription to purchase a SLGS security, the subscriber must certify that if, at any point while SLGS securities are outstanding, the issuer becomes ineligible to purchase SLGS securities or the funds used to purchase SLGS securities are no longer an eligible source of funds, the issuer or agent thereof must, as soon as practicable, notify Treasury of such ineligibility. Such notification will be deemed to be a request for redemption of those outstanding Demand Deposit securities that are affected by the ineligibility.
Eligibility certification.
For each subscription to purchase a SLGS security, the subscriber must certify that if, at any point while SLGS securities are outstanding, the issuer becomes ineligible to purchase SLGS securities or the funds used to purchase SLGS securities are no longer an eligible source of funds, the issuer or agent thereof must, as soon as practicable, notify Treasury of such ineligibility. Such notification will be deemed to be a request for redemption of those outstanding Demand Deposit securities that are affected by the ineligibility.
(f) What are some practices involving SLGS securities that are not permitted?—(1) Impermissible transactions. (i) To use the SLGS program to create a cost-free option (while the examples in paragraph (f)(2) of this section may specifically use marketable securities for illustration, creating a cost-free option via any means is prohibited);
What are some practices involving SLGS securities that are not permitted?
—(1)
Impermissible transactions.
(i) To use the SLGS program to create a cost-free option (while the examples in paragraph (f)(2) of this section may specifically use marketable securities for illustration, creating a cost-free option via any means is prohibited);
(ii) To purchase a SLGS security with any amount received from the sale or redemption (at the option of the holder) before maturity of any marketable security, if the yield on such SLGS security exceeds the yield at which such marketable security is sold or redeemed;
(iii) To invest any amount received from the redemption before maturity of a Time Deposit security (other than a Zero Percent Time Deposit security) at a yield that exceeds the yield that is used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds for such Time Deposit security; or
(iv) To purchase a SLGS security with a maturity that is longer than is reasonably necessary to accomplish the issuer's governmental purpose for its purchase of the SLGS security or to purchase a SLGS security with an intention to redeem such SLGS security earlier than is reasonably necessary to accomplish the issuer's governmental purpose for its purchase of the SLGS security.
(2) Examples—(i) Simultaneous purchase of marketable and SLGS securities. In order to fund an escrow for an advance refunding, the issuer simultaneously enters into a purchase contract for marketable securities and subscribes for SLGS securities, such that either purchase is sufficient to pay the cash flows on the outstanding bonds to be refunded, but together, the purchases are greatly in excess of the amount necessary to pay the cash flows. The issuer plans that, if interest rates decline during the period between the date of starting a SLGS subscription and the requested date of issuance of SLGS securities, the issuer will enter into an offsetting agreement to sell the marketable securities and use the bond proceeds to purchase SLGS securities to fund the escrow. If, however, interest rates do not decline in that period, the issuer plans to use the bond proceeds to purchase the marketable securities to fund the escrow and cancel the SLGS securities subscription. This practice violates the prohibition on cancellation under § 344.5(c) or § 344.8(c), and no exception or waiver would be granted under this part because the ability to cancel in these circumstances would result in the SLGS program being used to create a cost-free option. In addition, this practice is prohibited under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.
Examples
—(i)
Simultaneous purchase of marketable and SLGS securities.
In order to fund an escrow for an advance refunding, the issuer simultaneously enters into a purchase contract for marketable securities and subscribes for SLGS securities, such that either purchase is sufficient to pay the cash flows on the outstanding bonds to be refunded, but together, the purchases are greatly in excess of the amount necessary to pay the cash flows. The issuer plans that, if interest rates decline during the period between the date of starting a SLGS subscription and the requested date of issuance of SLGS securities, the issuer will enter into an offsetting agreement to sell the marketable securities and use the bond proceeds to purchase SLGS securities to fund the escrow. If, however, interest rates do not decline in that period, the issuer plans to use the bond proceeds to purchase the marketable securities to fund the escrow and cancel the SLGS securities subscription. This practice violates the prohibition on cancellation under § 344.5(c) or § 344.8(c), and no exception or waiver would be granted under this part because the ability to cancel in these circumstances would result in the SLGS program being used to create a cost-free option. In addition, this practice is prohibited under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) Sale of marketable securities conditioned on interest rates. The existing escrow for an advance refunding contains marketable securities which produce a negative arbitrage. In order to reduce or eliminate this negative arbitrage, the issuer subscribes for SLGS securities at a yield higher than the yield on the existing escrow, but less than the permitted yield. At the same time, the issuer agrees to sell the marketable securities in the existing escrow to a third party and use the proceeds to purchase SLGS securities if interest rates decline between the date of subscribing for SLGS securities and the requested date of issuance of SLGS securities. The marketable securities would be sold at a yield which is less than the yield on the SLGS securities purchased. The issuer and the third party further agree that if interest rates increase during this period, the issuer will cancel the SLGS securities subscription. This practice violates the prohibition on cancellation under § 344.5(c) or § 344.8(c), and no exception or waiver would be granted under this part because the ability to cancel in these circumstances would result in the SLGS program being used to create a cost-free option. In addition, this practice is prohibited under paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
Sale of marketable securities conditioned on interest rates.
The existing escrow for an advance refunding contains marketable securities which produce a negative arbitrage. In order to reduce or eliminate this negative arbitrage, the issuer subscribes for SLGS securities at a yield higher than the yield on the existing escrow, but less than the permitted yield. At the same time, the issuer agrees to sell the marketable securities in the existing escrow to a third party and use the proceeds to purchase SLGS securities if interest rates decline between the date of subscribing for SLGS securities and the requested date of issuance of SLGS securities. The marketable securities would be sold at a yield which is less than the yield on the SLGS securities purchased. The issuer and the third party further agree that if interest rates increase during this period, the issuer will cancel the SLGS securities subscription. This practice violates the prohibition on cancellation under § 344.5(c) or § 344.8(c), and no exception or waiver would be granted under this part because the ability to cancel in these circumstances would result in the SLGS program being used to create a cost-free option. In addition, this practice is prohibited under paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(iii) Sale of marketable securities not conditioned on interest rates. The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, except that in this case, the agreement entered into by the issuer with a third party to sell the marketable securities in order to obtain funds to purchase SLGS securities is not conditioned upon changes in interest rates on Treasury securities. This practice violates the yield gain prohibition in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section and is prohibited.
Sale of marketable securities not conditioned on interest rates.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, except that in this case, the agreement entered into by the issuer with a third party to sell the marketable securities in order to obtain funds to purchase SLGS securities is not conditioned upon changes in interest rates on Treasury securities. This practice violates the yield gain prohibition in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section and is prohibited.
(iv) Simultaneous subscription for SLGS securities and sale of option to purchase marketable securities. The issuer holds a portfolio of marketable securities in an account that produces negative arbitrage. To reduce or eliminate this negative arbitrage, the issuer subscribes for SLGS securities for purchase in 45 days. At the same time, the issuer sells an option to purchase the portfolio of marketable securities. If interest rates increase, the holder of the option will not exercise its option and the issuer will cancel the SLGS securities subscription. On the other hand, if interest rates decline, the option holder will exercise the option and the issuer will use the proceeds to purchase SLGS securities. This practice violates the prohibition on cancellation under § 344.5(c) or § 344.8(c), and no exception or waiver would be granted under this part because the ability to cancel in these circumstances would result in the SLGS program being used to create a cost-free option. In addition, this practice is prohibited under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.
Simultaneous subscription for SLGS securities and sale of option to purchase marketable securities.
The issuer holds a portfolio of marketable securities in an account that produces negative arbitrage. To reduce or eliminate this negative arbitrage, the issuer subscribes for SLGS securities for purchase in 45 days. At the same time, the issuer sells an option to purchase the portfolio of marketable securities. If interest rates increase, the holder of the option will not exercise its option and the issuer will cancel the SLGS securities subscription. On the other hand, if interest rates decline, the option holder will exercise the option and the issuer will use the proceeds to purchase SLGS securities. This practice violates the prohibition on cancellation under § 344.5(c) or § 344.8(c), and no exception or waiver would be granted under this part because the ability to cancel in these circumstances would result in the SLGS program being used to create a cost-free option. In addition, this practice is prohibited under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.
(v) Early redemption of time deposit security and subsequent purchase of marketable security. On February 6, 2006, an issuer purchases a Time Deposit security using an eligible source of funds from a debt service reserve fund. The Time Deposit security has a principal amount of $7 million, an interest rate of 3.63 percent, and a maturity date of February 6, 2009. On March 1, 2007, the issuer submits a request to redeem the Time Deposit security on March 15, 2007. The yield used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds is 3.21 percent. On March 5, 2007, the issuer subscribes for the purchase, on March 15, 2007, of a second Time Deposit security. The issuer pays for the second Time Deposit security on March 15, 2007, with the redemption proceeds of the first Time Deposit security. The second Time Deposit security has an interest rate of 2.77 percent and a maturity date of April 16, 2007. On April 9, 2007, the issuer enters into a contract to purchase, on April 16, 2007, a ten-year, marketable Treasury security using the principal and interest to be received at the maturity of the second Time Deposit security. The marketable Treasury security has a yield of 4.02 percent. This transaction satisfies the yield limitation in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section because:
Early redemption of time deposit security and subsequent purchase of marketable security.
On February 6, 2006, an issuer purchases a Time Deposit security using an eligible source of funds from a debt service reserve fund. The Time Deposit security has a principal amount of $7 million, an interest rate of 3.63 percent, and a maturity date of February 6, 2009. On March 1, 2007, the issuer submits a request to redeem the Time Deposit security on March 15, 2007. The yield used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds is 3.21 percent. On March 5, 2007, the issuer subscribes for the purchase, on March 15, 2007, of a second Time Deposit security. The issuer pays for the second Time Deposit security on March 15, 2007, with the redemption proceeds of the first Time Deposit security. The second Time Deposit security has an interest rate of 2.77 percent and a maturity date of April 16, 2007. On April 9, 2007, the issuer enters into a contract to purchase, on April 16, 2007, a ten-year, marketable Treasury security using the principal and interest to be received at the maturity of the second Time Deposit security. The marketable Treasury security has a yield of 4.02 percent. This transaction satisfies the yield limitation in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section because:
(A) The yield on the second Time Deposit security does not exceed the yield that is used to determine the amount of redemption proceeds for the first Time Deposit security; and
(B) The second Time Deposit security is not redeemed before maturity and therefore the re-investment of the principal and interest received on the second Time Deposit security is not subject to the yield limitation in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section. This transaction constitutes a permissible use of the SLGS program.
(vi) Early redemption of time deposit security and simultaneous purchase of marketable security. The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section, except that the issuer subscribes for the second Time Deposit security on March 1, 2007, and enters into the contract to purchase the marketable Treasury security on March 1, 2007. This transaction, if permitted, would enable the issuer to redeem the first Time Deposit security at a yield that is held constant for 12 hours based on the “current Treasury borrowing rate” for March 1, 2007, and to re-invest the redemption proceeds based on a market yield that may fluctuate during that 12-hour period. The use of the SLGS program in this manner would create a cost-free option. Accordingly, this transaction is impermissible under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.
Early redemption of time deposit security and simultaneous purchase of marketable security.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section, except that the issuer subscribes for the second Time Deposit security on March 1, 2007, and enters into the contract to purchase the marketable Treasury security on March 1, 2007. This transaction, if permitted, would enable the issuer to redeem the first Time Deposit security at a yield that is held constant for 12 hours based on the “current Treasury borrowing rate” for March 1, 2007, and to re-invest the redemption proceeds based on a market yield that may fluctuate during that 12-hour period. The use of the SLGS program in this manner would create a cost-free option. Accordingly, this transaction is impermissible under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.
(vii) Purchase of SLGS security with maturity longer than reasonably necessary. An issuer may purchase SLGS securities to facilitate compliance with arbitrage yield restrictions for investments of various types of proceeds of tax-advantaged bonds, including investments in refunding escrow funds, bond debt service reserve funds, or project construction funds, respectively. The determination of whether a maturity for a SLGS security is longer than is reasonably necessary depends on the issuer's governmental purpose for the issuance. Thus, the maturities of SLGS securities invested in a refunding escrow fund are reasonably necessary if they are no longer than those necessary to accomplish the defeasance of the underlying refunded bonds until the applicable redemption date or retirement date of the refunded bonds. Maturities of SLGS securities invested in a project construction fund are reasonably necessary if they are no longer than the reasonably expected construction period for the financed project, and early redemptions of such securities are reasonably necessary if they are reasonably related to construction draws for the financed project. Maturities of SLGS securities invested in a debt service reserve fund are reasonably necessary if they are no longer than the earlier of the permitted term of investments in that reserve fund under the bond documents or the term of the secured bonds. Early redemptions of SLGS securities with reasonably necessary maturities are permissible for the above bona fide business reasons, including changes in market interest rates. By contrast, the purchase of SLGS securities with maturities that are longer than the reasonably necessary maturities described above and associated early redemptions of those SLGS securities to obtain the funds within periods that would correspond to an issuer's bona fide governmental purpose for a SLGS investment constitute impermissible practices under paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. Thus, for example, if an issuer purchases SLGS securities to fund a refunding escrow to be used to defease and call refunded bonds at the first call date in five years, the issuer's purchase of SLGS securities with maturities beyond that five-year period and corresponding early redemptions of those SLGS securities within that five-year period constitute an impermissible use of the SLGS program.
Purchase of SLGS security with maturity longer than reasonably necessary.
An issuer may purchase SLGS securities to facilitate compliance with arbitrage yield restrictions for investments of various types of proceeds of tax-advantaged bonds, including investments in refunding escrow funds, bond debt service reserve funds, or project construction funds, respectively. The determination of whether a maturity for a SLGS security is longer than is reasonably necessary depends on the issuer's governmental purpose for the issuance. Thus, the maturities of SLGS securities invested in a refunding escrow fund are reasonably necessary if they are no longer than those necessary to accomplish the defeasance of the underlying refunded bonds until the applicable redemption date or retirement date of the refunded bonds. Maturities of SLGS securities invested in a project construction fund are reasonably necessary if they are no longer than the reasonably expected construction period for the financed project, and early redemptions of such securities are reasonably necessary if they are reasonably related to construction draws for the financed project. Maturities of SLGS securities invested in a debt service reserve fund are reasonably necessary if they are no longer than the earlier of the permitted term of investments in that reserve fund under the bond documents or the term of the secured bonds. Early redemptions of SLGS securities with reasonably necessary maturities are permissible for the above bona fide business reasons, including changes in market interest rates. By contrast, the purchase of SLGS securities with maturities that are longer than the reasonably necessary maturities described above and associated early redemptions of those SLGS securities to obtain the funds within periods that would correspond to an issuer's bona fide governmental purpose for a SLGS investment constitute impermissible practices under paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. Thus, for example, if an issuer purchases SLGS securities to fund a refunding escrow to be used to defease and call refunded bonds at the first call date in five years, the issuer's purchase of SLGS securities with maturities beyond that five-year period and corresponding early redemptions of those SLGS securities within that five-year period constitute an impermissible use of the SLGS program.
(g) When and how do I pay for SLGS securities? You must submit full payment for each subscription to Fiscal Service no later than 4 p.m., Eastern time, on the issue date. Submit payments by the Fedwire funds transfer system with credit directed to the Treasury's General Account. Fiscal Service's American Bankers Association (ABA) Routing Number can be found on Fiscal Service's website under the SLGS frequently asked questions (FAQs).
When and how do I pay for SLGS securities?
You must submit full payment for each subscription to Fiscal Service no later than 4 p.m., Eastern time, on the issue date. Submit payments by the Fedwire funds transfer system with credit directed to the Treasury's General Account. Fiscal Service's American Bankers Association (ABA) Routing Number can be found on Fiscal Service's website under the SLGS frequently asked questions (FAQs).
(h) What happens if I need to make an untimely change or do not settle on a subscription? An untimely change to a subscription can only be made in accordance with § 344.2(n) of this part. The penalty imposed for failure to make settlement on a subscription that you submit will be to render you ineligible to subscribe for SLGS securities for six months beginning on the date the subscription is withdrawn, or the proposed issue date, whichever occurs first.
What happens if I need to make an untimely change or do not settle on a subscription?
An untimely change to a subscription can only be made in accordance with § 344.2(n) of this part. The penalty imposed for failure to make settlement on a subscription that you submit will be to render you ineligible to subscribe for SLGS securities for six months beginning on the date the subscription is withdrawn, or the proposed issue date, whichever occurs first.
(1) Upon whom is the penalty imposed? If you are the issuer, the penalty is imposed on you unless you provide the Taxpayer Identification Number of the conduit borrower that is the actual party failing to make settlement of a subscription. If you provide the Taxpayer Identification Number for the conduit borrower, the six-month penalty will be imposed on the conduit borrower.
Upon whom is the penalty imposed?
If you are the issuer, the penalty is imposed on you unless you provide the Taxpayer Identification Number of the conduit borrower that is the actual party failing to make settlement of a subscription. If you provide the Taxpayer Identification Number for the conduit borrower, the six-month penalty will be imposed on the conduit borrower.
(2) What occurs if Treasury exercises the option to waive the penalty? If you settle after the proposed issue date and we determine that settlement is acceptable on an exception basis, we will waive, under § 344.2(n), the six-month penalty under paragraph (h) of this section. You shall be charged a late payment assessment. The late payment assessment equals the amount of interest that would have accrued on the SLGS securities from the proposed issue date to the date of settlement plus an administrative fee of $100 per subscription, or such other amount as we may publish in the Federal Register. We will not issue SLGS securities until we receive the late payment assessment, which is due on demand.
What occurs if Treasury exercises the option to waive the penalty?
If you settle after the proposed issue date and we determine that settlement is acceptable on an exception basis, we will waive, under § 344.2(n), the six-month penalty under paragraph (h) of this section. You shall be charged a late payment assessment. The late payment assessment equals the amount of interest that would have accrued on the SLGS securities from the proposed issue date to the date of settlement plus an administrative fee of $100 per subscription, or such other amount as we may publish in the
Federal Register.
We will not issue SLGS securities until we receive the late payment assessment, which is due on demand.
(i) What happens at maturity? Upon the maturity of a security, we will pay the owner the principal amount and interest due. A security scheduled for maturity on a non-business day will be redeemed on the next business day.
What happens at maturity?
Upon the maturity of a security, we will pay the owner the principal amount and interest due. A security scheduled for maturity on a non-business day will be redeemed on the next business day.
(j) How will I receive payment? We will make payment by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) method for the owner's account at a financial institution as designated by the owner. We may use substitute payment procedures, instead of ACH, if we consider it to be necessary. Any such action is final.
How will I receive payment?
We will make payment by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) method for the owner's account at a financial institution as designated by the owner. We may use substitute payment procedures, instead of ACH, if we consider it to be necessary. Any such action is final.
(k) How do I contact Fiscal Service? Fiscal Service's contact information is posted on Fiscal Service's Web site.
How do I contact Fiscal Service?
Fiscal Service's contact information is posted on Fiscal Service's Web site.
(l) Will the offering be changed during a debt limit or disaster contingency? We reserve the right to change or suspend the terms and conditions of the offering (including provisions relating to subscriptions for, and issuance of, SLGS securities; interest payments; early redemptions; and rollovers) at any time the Secretary determines that the issuance of obligations sufficient to conduct the orderly financing operations of the United States cannot be made without exceeding the statutory debt limit, or that a disaster situation exists. We will announce such changes by any means that the Secretary deems appropriate.
Will the offering be changed during a debt limit or disaster contingency?
We reserve the right to change or suspend the terms and conditions of the offering (including provisions relating to subscriptions for, and issuance of, SLGS securities; interest payments; early redemptions; and rollovers) at any time the Secretary determines that the issuance of obligations sufficient to conduct the orderly financing operations of the United States cannot be made without exceeding the statutory debt limit, or that a disaster situation exists. We will announce such changes by any means that the Secretary deems appropriate.
(m) What are some of the rights that Treasury reserves in administering the SLGS program? We may decide, in our sole discretion, to take any of the following actions. Such actions are final. Specifically, Treasury reserves the right:
What are some of the rights that Treasury reserves in administering the SLGS program?
We may decide, in our sole discretion, to take any of the following actions. Such actions are final. Specifically, Treasury reserves the right:
(1) To reject any SLGSafe Application for Internet Access;
(2) To reject any electronic message or other message or request, including requests for subscription and redemption, that is inappropriately completed or untimely submitted;
(3) To refuse to issue any SLGS securities in any case or class of cases;
(4) To revoke the issuance of any SLGS securities and to declare the subscriber or the issuer ineligible thereafter to subscribe for securities under the offering if the Secretary deems that such action is in the public interest and any security is issued on the basis of an improper certification or other misrepresentation (other than as the result of an inadvertent error) or there is an impermissible transaction under § 344.2(f); or
(5) To review any transaction for compliance with this part, including requiring a subscriber or the issuer to provide additional information, and to determine an appropriate remedy under the circumstances.
(n) Are there any situations in which Treasury may waive these regulations? We reserve the right, at our discretion, to waive or modify any provision of these regulations in any case or class of cases. We may do so if such action is not inconsistent with law and will not subject the United States to substantial expense or liability.
Are there any situations in which Treasury may waive these regulations?
We reserve the right, at our discretion, to waive or modify any provision of these regulations in any case or class of cases. We may do so if such action is not inconsistent with law and will not subject the United States to substantial expense or liability.
(o) Are SLGS securities callable by Treasury? No. Treasury cannot call a SLGS security for redemption before maturity.
Are SLGS securities callable by Treasury?
No. Treasury cannot call a SLGS security for redemption before maturity.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15447, Mar. 4, 2024]]

SLGSafe ® Service


§ 344.3   What provisions apply to the SLGSafe Service?

(a) What is the SLGSafe Service? SLGSafe is a secure Internet site on the World Wide Web through which subscribers submit SLGS securities transactions. SLGSafe Internet transactions constitute electronic messages under 31 CFR part 370.
What is the SLGSafe Service?
SLGSafe is a secure Internet site on the World Wide Web through which subscribers submit SLGS securities transactions. SLGSafe Internet transactions constitute electronic messages under 31 CFR part 370.
(b) Is SLGSafe use mandatory? Yes. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) or (f)(4) of this section, you must submit all transactions through SLGSafe.
Is SLGSafe use mandatory?
Yes. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) or (f)(4) of this section, you must submit all transactions through SLGSafe.
(c) What terms and conditions apply to SLGSafe? The terms and conditions contained in the following documents, which may be downloaded from Fiscal Service's Web site and which may change from time to time, apply to SLGSafe transactions:
What terms and conditions apply to SLGSafe?
The terms and conditions contained in the following documents, which may be downloaded from Fiscal Service's Web site and which may change from time to time, apply to SLGSafe transactions:
(1) SLGSafe Application for Internet Access and SLGSafe User Acknowledgment; and
(2) SLGSafe User's Manual.
(d) Who can apply for SLGSafe access? If you are an owner or a potential owner of SLGS securities, or act as a trustee or other agent of the owner, you can apply to Fiscal Service for SLGSafe access. Other potential users of SLGSafe include, but are not limited to, underwriters, financial advisors, and bond counsel.
Who can apply for SLGSafe access?
If you are an owner or a potential owner of SLGS securities, or act as a trustee or other agent of the owner, you can apply to Fiscal Service for SLGSafe access. Other potential users of SLGSafe include, but are not limited to, underwriters, financial advisors, and bond counsel.
(e) How do I apply for SLGSafe access? Submit to Fiscal Service a completed SLGSafe Application for internet Access, which is found on Fiscal Service's website.
How do I apply for SLGSafe access?
Submit to Fiscal Service a completed SLGSafe Application for internet Access, which is found on Fiscal Service's website.
(f) What are the conditions of SLGSafe use? If you are designated as an authorized user, on a SLGSafe application that we've approved, you must:
What are the conditions of SLGSafe use?
If you are designated as an authorized user, on a SLGSafe application that we've approved, you must:
(1) Assume the sole responsibility and the entire risk of use and operation of your electronic connection;
(2) Agree that we may act on any electronic message to the same extent as if we had received a written instruction bearing the signature of your duly authorized officer;
(3) Submit electronic messages and other transaction requests exclusively through SLGSafe, except to the extent you establish to the satisfaction of Fiscal Service that good cause exists for you to submit such subscriptions and requests by other means; and
(4) Agree to submit transactions manually if we notify you that due to problems with hardware, software, data transmission, or any other reason, we are unable to send or receive electronic messages through SLGSafe.
(g) When is the SLGSafe window open? All SLGSafe subscriptions, requests for early redemption of Time Deposit securities, and requests for redemption of Demand Deposit securities must be received by Fiscal Service on business days no earlier than 10 a.m. and no later than 10 p.m., Eastern time. The official time is the date and time as shown on Fiscal Service's application server. Except as otherwise provided in §§ 344.5(d) and 344.8(d), all other functions may be performed during the extended SLGSafe hours, from 8 a.m. until 10 p.m., Eastern time.
When is the SLGSafe window open?
All SLGSafe subscriptions, requests for early redemption of Time Deposit securities, and requests for redemption of Demand Deposit securities must be received by Fiscal Service on business days no earlier than 10 a.m. and no later than 10 p.m., Eastern time. The official time is the date and time as shown on Fiscal Service's application server. Except as otherwise provided in §§ 344.5(d) and 344.8(d), all other functions may be performed during the extended SLGSafe hours, from 8 a.m. until 10 p.m., Eastern time.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]]

Subpart B—Time Deposit Securities

[Source:70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

§ 344.4   What are Time Deposit securities?

Time Deposit securities are issued as certificates of indebtedness, notes, or bonds.
(a) What are the maturity periods? The issuer must fix the maturity periods for Time Deposit securities, which are issued as follows:
What are the maturity periods?
The issuer must fix the maturity periods for Time Deposit securities, which are issued as follows:
(1) Certificates of indebtedness that do not bear interest. For certificates of indebtedness that do not bear interest, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than fifteen days and not more than one year.
Certificates of indebtedness that do not bear interest.
For certificates of indebtedness that do not bear interest, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than fifteen days and not more than one year.
(2) Certificates of indebtedness that bear interest. For certificates of indebtedness that bear interest, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than thirty days and not more than one year.
Certificates of indebtedness that bear interest.
For certificates of indebtedness that bear interest, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than thirty days and not more than one year.
(3) Notes. For notes, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than one year and one day, and not more than ten years.
Notes.
For notes, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than one year and one day, and not more than ten years.
(4) Bonds. For bonds, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than ten years and one day, and not more than forty years.
Bonds.
For bonds, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than ten years and one day, and not more than forty years.
(b) How do I select the SLGS rate? For each security, the issuer shall designate an interest rate that does not exceed the maximum interest rate shown in the daily SLGS rate table as defined in § 344.1.
How do I select the SLGS rate?
For each security, the issuer shall designate an interest rate that does not exceed the maximum interest rate shown in the daily SLGS rate table as defined in § 344.1.
(1) When is the SLGS rate table released? We release the SLGS rate table to the public by 10 a.m. Eastern time each business day or as soon as practicable thereafter. If the SLGS rate table is not available by 11 a.m. Eastern time on any given business day, the SLGS rate table for the preceding business day applies.
When is the SLGS rate table released?
We release the SLGS rate table to the public by 10 a.m. Eastern time each business day or as soon as practicable thereafter. If the SLGS rate table is not available by 11 a.m. Eastern time on any given business day, the SLGS rate table for the preceding business day applies.
(2) How do I lock-in a SLGS rate? The applicable daily SLGS rate table for a SLGSafe subscription is the one in effect on the business day that you start the subscription process. This table is shown on Fiscal Service's Application server.
How do I lock-in a SLGS rate?
The applicable daily SLGS rate table for a SLGSafe subscription is the one in effect on the business day that you start the subscription process. This table is shown on Fiscal Service's Application server.
(3) Where can I find the SLGS rate table? The SLGS rate table can be obtained at Fiscal Service's Web site.
Where can I find the SLGS rate table?
The SLGS rate table can be obtained at Fiscal Service's Web site.
(c) How are interest computation and payment dates determined? Interest on a certificate of indebtedness is computed on an annual basis and is paid at maturity with the principal. Interest on a note or bond is paid semi-annually. The issuer specifies the first interest payment date, which must be at least thirty days and less than or equal to one year from the date of issue. The final interest payment date must coincide with the maturity date of the security. Interest for other than a full interest period is computed on the basis of a 365-day or 366-day year (for certificates of indebtedness) and on the basis of the exact number of days in the half-year (for notes and bonds). See the appendix to subpart E to part 306 of this subchapter for rules regarding computation of interest.
How are interest computation and payment dates determined?
Interest on a certificate of indebtedness is computed on an annual basis and is paid at maturity with the principal. Interest on a note or bond is paid semi-annually. The issuer specifies the first interest payment date, which must be at least thirty days and less than or equal to one year from the date of issue. The final interest payment date must coincide with the maturity date of the security. Interest for other than a full interest period is computed on the basis of a 365-day or 366-day year (for certificates of indebtedness) and on the basis of the exact number of days in the half-year (for notes and bonds). See the appendix to subpart E to part 306 of this subchapter for rules regarding computation of interest.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]]

§ 344.5   What other provisions apply to subscriptions for Time Deposit securities?

(a) When is my subscription due? The subscriber must set the issue date for the securities in the subscription. The issue date must be a business day. The issue date cannot be more than 60 days after the date we receive the subscription. If the subscription is for $10 million or less, we must receive a subscription at least 5 days before the issue date. If the subscription is for over $10 million, we must receive the subscription at least 7 days before the issue date.
When is my subscription due?
The subscriber must set the issue date for the securities in the subscription. The issue date must be a business day. The issue date cannot be more than 60 days after the date we receive the subscription. If the subscription is for $10 million or less, we must receive a subscription at least 5 days before the issue date. If the subscription is for over $10 million, we must receive the subscription at least 7 days before the issue date.
Example 1 to paragraph (a): If SLGS securities totaling $10 million or less will be issued on May 16th, we must receive the subscription no later than May 11th. If SLGS securities totaling more than $10 million will be issued on May 16th, we must receive the subscription no later than May 9th. In all cases, if SLGS securities will be issued on May 16th, we will not accept the subscription before March 17th.
Example 1 to paragraph (a):
If SLGS securities totaling $10 million or less will be issued on May 16th, we must receive the subscription no later than May 11th. If SLGS securities totaling more than $10 million will be issued on May 16th, we must receive the subscription no later than May 9th. In all cases, if SLGS securities will be issued on May 16th, we will not accept the subscription before March 17th.
(b) How do I start the subscription process? A subscriber starts the subscription process by entering into SLGSafe the following information:
How do I start the subscription process?
A subscriber starts the subscription process by entering into SLGSafe the following information:
(1) The issue date;
(2) The total principal amount;
(3) The issuer's name and Taxpayer Identification Number;
(4) A description of the tax-advantaged bond issue;
(5) Separately itemized securities to be purchased, specifying principal amount, maturity date, interest rate, and first interest payment date (in the case of notes and bonds) for each; and
(6) The certifications required by § 344.2(e).
(c) Under what circumstances can I cancel a subscription? You cannot cancel a subscription unless you establish, to the satisfaction of Treasury, that the cancellation is required for reasons unrelated to the use of the SLGS program to create a cost-free option.
Under what circumstances can I cancel a subscription?
You cannot cancel a subscription unless you establish, to the satisfaction of Treasury, that the cancellation is required for reasons unrelated to the use of the SLGS program to create a cost-free option.
(d) How do I change a subscription? You can change a subscription on or before 3 p.m. Eastern time, on the issue date. Changes to a subscription are acceptable with the following exceptions:
How do I change a subscription?
You can change a subscription on or before 3 p.m. Eastern time, on the issue date. Changes to a subscription are acceptable with the following exceptions:
(1) You cannot change the issue date; provided, however, you may change the issue date up to 7 days after the original issue date if you establish to the satisfaction of Treasury that such change is required as a result of circumstances that were unforeseen at the time of the subscription and are beyond the issuer's control (for example, a natural disaster);
(2) You cannot change the principal amount originally specified for any security in the subscription by more than ten percent;
(3) You cannot change an interest rate to exceed the maximum interest rate in the SLGS rate table that was in effect for a security of comparable maturity on the business day that you began the subscription process; and
(4) You cannot change the maturity date originally specified for any security in the subscription by more than 30 days for certificates of indebtedness, 6 months for notes, and 1 year for bonds.
(e) How do I complete the subscription process? The completed subscription must:
How do I complete the subscription process?
The completed subscription must:
(1) Be dated and submitted electronically by an official authorized to make the purchase;
(2) Separately itemize securities specifying principal amount, maturity date, interest rate, and first interest payment date (in the case of notes and bonds) for each;
(3) Describe the bond issue. If the tax-advantaged bond issue referenced in paragraph (b)(4) of this section is, or will be, registered or disclosed in the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board's (MSRB) Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA®) system, describe the issue exactly as designated in the “issue description” field of EMMA®, or successor system;
(4) Include the issuer's address;
(5) Include information on the financial institution that will transmit the funds for the purchase of the securities and information on the financial institution that will receive security principal and interest payments;
(6) Not be more than ten percent above or below the aggregate principal amount originally specified in the subscription and not be more than ten percent above or below the originally subscribed for amount for each individual security;
(7) Not deviate from the original subscribed for maturity date specified for any security in the subscription by more than 30 days for certificates of indebtedness, 6 months for notes, and 1 year for bonds;
(8) Include the information required under paragraph (b) of this section, if not already provided; and
(9) Include the certifications required by § 344.2(e).
(f) When must I complete the subscription? We must receive a completed subscription on or before 3 p.m. Eastern time on the issue date.
When must I complete the subscription?
We must receive a completed subscription on or before 3 p.m. Eastern time on the issue date.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]]

§ 344.6   How do I redeem a Time Deposit security before maturity?

(a) What is the minimum time a security must be held? (1) Zero percent certificates of indebtedness of 16 to 29 days. A zero percent certificate of indebtedness of 16 to 29 days can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 15 days after the issue date.
What is the minimum time a security must be held?
(1) Zero percent certificates of indebtedness of 16 to 29 days. A zero percent certificate of indebtedness of 16 to 29 days can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 15 days after the issue date.
(2) Certificates of indebtedness of 30 days or more. A certificate of indebtedness of 30 days or more can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 25 days after the issue date.
Certificates of indebtedness of 30 days or more.
A certificate of indebtedness of 30 days or more can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 25 days after the issue date.
(3) Notes or bonds. A note or bond can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 30 days after the issue date. Any request for redemption received within 14 days of the issue date will be rejected.
Notes or bonds.
A note or bond can be redeemed, at the owner's option, no earlier than 30 days after the issue date. Any request for redemption received within 14 days of the issue date will be rejected.
(b) Can I request partial redemption of a security balance? You may request partial redemptions in any whole dollar amount; however, a security balance of less than $1,000 must be redeemed in total.
Can I request partial redemption of a security balance?
You may request partial redemptions in any whole dollar amount; however, a security balance of less than $1,000 must be redeemed in total.
(c) Do I have to submit a request for early redemption? Yes. An official authorized to redeem the securities before maturity must submit an electronic request in SLGSafe. The request must show the Taxpayer Identification Number of the issuer, the security number, and the dollar amount of the securities to be redeemed. Upon submission of a request for redemption before maturity of a security subscribed for on or after August 15, 2005, the request must include a yield certification under § 344.2(e)(2)(ii). Fiscal Service must receive the request no less than 14 days and no more than 60 days before the requested redemption date. You cannot submit a request for early redemption for a security which has not yet been issued and you cannot cancel a request once it has been submitted.
Do I have to submit a request for early redemption?
Yes. An official authorized to redeem the securities before maturity must submit an electronic request in SLGSafe. The request must show the Taxpayer Identification Number of the issuer, the security number, and the dollar amount of the securities to be redeemed. Upon submission of a request for redemption before maturity of a security subscribed for on or after August 15, 2005, the request must include a yield certification under § 344.2(e)(2)(ii). Fiscal Service must receive the request no less than 14 days and no more than 60 days before the requested redemption date. You cannot submit a request for early redemption for a security which has not yet been issued and you cannot cancel a request once it has been submitted.
(d) How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions on or after October 28, 1996? For securities subscribed for on or after October 28, 1996, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:
How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions on or after October 28, 1996?
For securities subscribed for on or after October 28, 1996, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:
(1) Interest. If a security is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, Treasury pays interest for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.
Interest.
If a security is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, Treasury pays interest for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.
(2) Redemption value. The remaining interest and principal payments are discounted by the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining term to maturity of the security redeemed. This may result in a premium or discount to the issuer depending on whether the current Treasury borrowing rate is unchanged, lower, or higher than the stated interest rate of the early-redeemed SLGS securities. There is no market charge for the redemption of zero interest Time Deposit securities subscribed for on or after October 28, 1996. Redemption proceeds in the case of a zero-interest security are a return of the principal invested. The formulas for calculating the redemption value under this paragraph, including examples of the determination of premiums and discounts, are set forth in appendix B of this part.
Redemption value.
The remaining interest and principal payments are discounted by the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining term to maturity of the security redeemed. This may result in a premium or discount to the issuer depending on whether the current Treasury borrowing rate is unchanged, lower, or higher than the stated interest rate of the early-redeemed SLGS securities. There is no market charge for the redemption of zero interest Time Deposit securities subscribed for on or after October 28, 1996. Redemption proceeds in the case of a zero-interest security are a return of the principal invested. The formulas for calculating the redemption value under this paragraph, including examples of the determination of premiums and discounts, are set forth in appendix B of this part.
(e) How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions from September 1, 1989, through October 27, 1996? For securities subscribed for from September 1, 1989, through October 27, 1996, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:
How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions from September 1, 1989, through October 27, 1996?
For securities subscribed for from September 1, 1989, through October 27, 1996, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:
(1) Interest. If a security is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, Treasury pays interest for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.
Interest.
If a security is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, Treasury pays interest for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.
(2) Market charge. An amount shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds if the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining period to original maturity exceeds the rate of interest originally fixed for such security. The amount shall be the present value of the future increased borrowing cost to the Treasury. The annual increased borrowing cost for each interest period is determined by multiplying the principal by the difference between the two rates. For notes and bonds, the increased borrowing cost for each remaining interest period to original maturity is determined by dividing the annual cost by two. Present value is determined by using the current Treasury borrowing rate as the discount factor. When you request a redemption date that is less than thirty days before the original maturity date, we will apply the rate of a one month security as listed on the SLGS rate table issued on the day you make a redemption request. The market charge under this paragraph can be computed by using the formulas in appendix A of this part.
Market charge.
An amount shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds if the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining period to original maturity exceeds the rate of interest originally fixed for such security. The amount shall be the present value of the future increased borrowing cost to the Treasury. The annual increased borrowing cost for each interest period is determined by multiplying the principal by the difference between the two rates. For notes and bonds, the increased borrowing cost for each remaining interest period to original maturity is determined by dividing the annual cost by two. Present value is determined by using the current Treasury borrowing rate as the discount factor. When you request a redemption date that is less than thirty days before the original maturity date, we will apply the rate of a one month security as listed on the SLGS rate table issued on the day you make a redemption request. The market charge under this paragraph can be computed by using the formulas in appendix A of this part.
(f) How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions from December 28, 1976, through August 31, 1989? For securities subscribed for from December 28, 1976, through August 31, 1989, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:
How do I calculate the amount of redemption proceeds for subscriptions from December 28, 1976, through August 31, 1989?
For securities subscribed for from December 28, 1976, through August 31, 1989, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows:
(1) Interest. Interest for the entire period the security was outstanding shall be recalculated if the original interest rate of the security is higher than the interest rate that would have been set at the time of the initial subscription had the term of the security been for the shorter period. If this results in an overpayment of interest, we will deduct from the redemption proceeds the aggregate amount of such overpayments, plus interest, compounded semi-annually thereon, from the date of each overpayment to the date of redemption. The rate used in calculating the interest on the overpayment will be one-eighth of one percent above the maximum rate that would have applied to the initial subscription had the term of the security been for the shorter period. If a bond is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, no interest is paid for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.
Interest.
Interest for the entire period the security was outstanding shall be recalculated if the original interest rate of the security is higher than the interest rate that would have been set at the time of the initial subscription had the term of the security been for the shorter period. If this results in an overpayment of interest, we will deduct from the redemption proceeds the aggregate amount of such overpayments, plus interest, compounded semi-annually thereon, from the date of each overpayment to the date of redemption. The rate used in calculating the interest on the overpayment will be one-eighth of one percent above the maximum rate that would have applied to the initial subscription had the term of the security been for the shorter period. If a bond is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, no interest is paid for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.
(2) Market charge. An amount shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds in all cases where the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining period to original maturity of the security prematurely redeemed exceeds the rate of interest originally fixed for such security. You can compute the market charge under this paragraph by using the formulas in appendix A of this part.
Market charge.
An amount shall be deducted from the redemption proceeds in all cases where the current Treasury borrowing rate for the remaining period to original maturity of the security prematurely redeemed exceeds the rate of interest originally fixed for such security. You can compute the market charge under this paragraph by using the formulas in appendix A of this part.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]]

Subpart C—Demand Deposit Securities

[Source:70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

§ 344.7   What are Demand Deposit securities?

Demand Deposit securities are one-day certificates of indebtedness that are automatically rolled over each day until you request redemption.
(a) How is the rate for Demand Deposit securities determined? Each security shall bear a rate of interest based on an adjustment of the average yield for 13-week Treasury bills at the most recent auction. A new annualized effective Demand Deposit rate and daily factor for the Demand Deposit rate are effective on the first business day following the regular auction of 13-week Treasury bills and are shown in the SLGS rate table. Interest is accrued and added to the principal daily. Interest is computed on the balance of the principal, plus interest accrued through the preceding day.
How is the rate for Demand Deposit securities determined?
Each security shall bear a rate of interest based on an adjustment of the average yield for 13-week Treasury bills at the most recent auction. A new annualized effective Demand Deposit rate and daily factor for the Demand Deposit rate are effective on the first business day following the regular auction of 13-week Treasury bills and are shown in the SLGS rate table. Interest is accrued and added to the principal daily. Interest is computed on the balance of the principal, plus interest accrued through the preceding day.
(1) How is the interest rate calculated? (i) First, you calculate the annualized effective Demand Deposit rate in decimals, designated “I” in Equation 1, as follows:
How is the interest rate calculated?
(i) First, you calculate the annualized effective Demand Deposit rate in decimals, designated “I” in Equation 1, as follows:
(Equation 1)
Where:
I = Annualized effective Demand Deposit rate in decimals. If the rate is determined to be negative, such rate will be reset to zero.
P = Average auction price for the most recently auctioned 13-week Treasury bill, per hundred, to six decimals.
Y = 365 (if the year following issue date of the 13-week Treasury bill does not contain a leap year day) or 366 (if the year following issue date of the 13-week Treasury bill does contain a leap year day).
DTM = The number of days from date of issue to maturity for the most recently auctioned 13-week Treasury bill.
MTR = Estimated marginal tax rate, in decimals, of purchasers of tax-exempt bonds.
TAC = Treasury administrative costs, in decimals.
(ii) Then, you calculate the daily factor for the Demand Deposit rate as follows:
DDR
= (1 +
I
)
1/Y
−1
(Equation 2)
(2) Where can I find additional information? Information on the estimated average marginal tax rate and Treasury administrative costs for administering Demand Deposit securities, both to be determined by Treasury from time to time, will be published in the Federal Register.
Where can I find additional information?
Information on the estimated average marginal tax rate and Treasury administrative costs for administering Demand Deposit securities, both to be determined by Treasury from time to time, will be published in the
Federal Register.
(b) What happens to Demand Deposit securities during a debt limit contingency? At any time the Secretary determines that issuance of obligations sufficient to conduct the orderly financing operations of the United States cannot be made without exceeding the statutory debt limit, we may invest any unredeemed Demand Deposit securities in special 90-day certificates of indebtedness.
What happens to Demand Deposit securities during a debt limit contingency?
At any time the Secretary determines that issuance of obligations sufficient to conduct the orderly financing operations of the United States cannot be made without exceeding the statutory debt limit, we may invest any unredeemed Demand Deposit securities in special 90-day certificates of indebtedness.
(1) Funds left invested in Demand Deposit securities remain subject to the normal terms and conditions for such securities as set forth in this part.
(2) Funds invested in 90-day certificates of indebtedness earn simple interest equal to the daily factor in effect at the time Demand Deposit security issuance is suspended, multiplied by the number of days outstanding. Ninety-day certificates of indebtedness are subject to the same request for redemption notification requirements as those for Demand Deposit securities and will be redeemed at par value plus accrued interest. If a 90-day certificate of indebtedness reaches maturity during a debt limit contingency, we will automatically roll it into a new 90-day certificate of indebtedness, along with accrued interest, that earns simple interest equal to the daily factor in effect at the time that the new 90-day certificate of indebtedness is issued, multiplied by the number of days outstanding. When regular Treasury borrowing operations resume, the 90-day certificates of indebtedness, along with accrued interest, will be reinvested in Demand Deposit securities.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 33635, June 7, 2012; 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]]

§ 344.8   What other provisions apply to subscriptions for Demand Deposit securities?

(a) When is my subscription due? The subscriber must set the issue date in the subscription. You cannot change the issue date to require issuance earlier or later than the issue date originally specified; provided, however, you may change the issue date up to 7 days after the original issue date if you establish to the satisfaction of Treasury that such change is required as a result of circumstances that were unforeseen at the time of the subscription and are beyond the issuer's control (for example, a natural disaster). The issue date must be a business day. The issue date cannot be more than 60 days after the date we receive the subscription. If the subscription is for $10 million or less, we must receive the subscription at least 5 days before the issue date. If the subscription is for more than $10 million, we must receive the subscription at least 7 days before the issue date.
When is my subscription due?
The subscriber must set the issue date in the subscription. You cannot change the issue date to require issuance earlier or later than the issue date originally specified; provided, however, you may change the issue date up to 7 days after the original issue date if you establish to the satisfaction of Treasury that such change is required as a result of circumstances that were unforeseen at the time of the subscription and are beyond the issuer's control (for example, a natural disaster). The issue date must be a business day. The issue date cannot be more than 60 days after the date we receive the subscription. If the subscription is for $10 million or less, we must receive the subscription at least 5 days before the issue date. If the subscription is for more than $10 million, we must receive the subscription at least 7 days before the issue date.
(b) How do I start the subscription process? A subscriber starts the subscription process by entering into SLGSafe the following information:
How do I start the subscription process?
A subscriber starts the subscription process by entering into SLGSafe the following information:
(1) The issue date;
(2) The total principal amount;
(3) The issuer's name and Taxpayer Identification Number;
(4) A description of the tax-advantaged bond issue; and
(5) The certifications required by § 344.2(e)(1), if the subscription is submitted by an agent of the issuer.
(c) Under what circumstances can I cancel a subscription? You cannot cancel a subscription unless you establish, to the satisfaction of Treasury, that the cancellation is required for reasons unrelated to the use of the SLGS program to create a cost-free option.
Under what circumstances can I cancel a subscription?
You cannot cancel a subscription unless you establish, to the satisfaction of Treasury, that the cancellation is required for reasons unrelated to the use of the SLGS program to create a cost-free option.
(d) How do I change a subscription? You can change a subscription on or before 3 p.m., Eastern time, on the issue date. You may change the aggregate principal amount specified in the subscription by no more than ten percent, above or below the amount originally specified in the subscription.
How do I change a subscription?
You can change a subscription on or before 3 p.m., Eastern time, on the issue date. You may change the aggregate principal amount specified in the subscription by no more than ten percent, above or below the amount originally specified in the subscription.
(e) How do I complete the subscription process? The completed subscription must:
How do I complete the subscription process?
The completed subscription must:
(1) Be dated and submitted electronically by an official authorized to make the purchase;
(2) Describe the bond issue. If the tax-advantaged bond issue referenced in paragraph (b)(4) of this section is, or will be, registered or disclosed in the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board's (MSRB) Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA®) system, describe the issue exactly as designated in the “issue description” field of EMMA®, or successor system;
(3) Include the issuer's address;
(4) Include the information on the financial institution that will transmit the funds for the purchase of the securities;
(5) Not be more than ten percent above or below the aggregate principal amount originally specified in the subscription;
(6) Include the information required under paragraph (b) of this section, if not already provided; and
(7) Include the certifications required by § 344.2(e)(1) (agent certification), (e)(2)(i) (yield certification), and (e)(4) (eligibility certification).
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15450, Mar. 4, 2024]]

§ 344.9   How do I redeem a Demand Deposit security?

(a) When must I notify Treasury to redeem a security? Demand Deposit securities can be redeemed at the owner's option, if we receive a request for redemption not less than:
When must I notify Treasury to redeem a security?
Demand Deposit securities can be redeemed at the owner's option, if we receive a request for redemption not less than:
(1) One business day before the requested redemption date for total redemptions by an owner of $10 million or less;
(2) Three business days before the requested redemption date for total redemptions by an owner of more than $10 million but less than $500 million; and
(3) Five business days before the requested redemption date for total redemptions by an owner of $500 million or more.
(b) Can I request partial redemption of a security balance? You may request partial redemptions in any amount. If your account balance is less than $1,000, it must be redeemed in total.
Can I request partial redemption of a security balance?
You may request partial redemptions in any amount. If your account balance is less than $1,000, it must be redeemed in total.
(c) Do I have to submit a request for redemption? Yes. An official authorized to redeem the securities must submit an electronic request through SLGSafe. The request must show the Taxpayer Identification Number of the issuer, the security number, and the dollar amount of the securities to be redeemed. Fiscal Service must receive the request by 3 p.m., Eastern time on the required day. You cannot cancel the request.
Do I have to submit a request for redemption?
Yes. An official authorized to redeem the securities must submit an electronic request through SLGSafe. The request must show the Taxpayer Identification Number of the issuer, the security number, and the dollar amount of the securities to be redeemed. Fiscal Service must receive the request by 3 p.m., Eastern time on the required day. You cannot cancel the request.
[[70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15450, Mar. 4, 2024]]

Appendix A to Part 344—Early Redemption Market Charge Formulas and Examples for Subscriptions From December 28, 1976, Through October 27, 1996

(a) The amount of the market charge for bonds and notes subscribed for before October 28, 1996 can be determined by the following formula:
(b) The application of this formula can be illustrated by the following example:
(1) Assume that a $600,000 note is issued on July 1, 1985, to mature on July 1, 1995. Interest is payable at a rate of 8% on January 1 and July 1.
(2) Assume that the note is redeemed on February 1, 1989, and that the current borrowing rate for Treasury at that time for the remaining period of 6 years and 150 days is 11%.
(3) The increased annual borrowing cost is $18,000. ($600,000)x(11%-8%)
(4) The market charge is computed as follows:
(c) The amount of the market charge for certificates of indebtedness subscribed for before October 28, 1996 can be determined by the following formula:
(d) The application of this formula can be illustrated by the following example:
(1) Assume that a $50,000 certificate of indebtedness is issued on March 1, 1987, to mature on November 1, 1987. Interest is payable at a rate of 10%.
(2) Assume that the certificate of indebtedness is redeemed on July 1, 1987, and that the current borrowing cost to Treasury for the 123-day period from July 1, 1987, to November 1, 1987, is 11.8%.
(3) The increased annual borrowing cost is $900. ($50,000) × (11.8%−10%)
(4) The market charge is computed as follows:

Appendix B to Part 344—Formula for Determining Redemption Value for Securities Subscribed for and Early-Redeemed On or After October 28, 1996

(a) This formula results in a premium or discount to the issuer depending on whether the current Treasury borrowing rate at the time of early redemption is lower or higher than the stated interest rate of the early-redeemed SLGS security. The total redemption value for bonds and notes can be determined by the following two steps. First, calculate accrued interest payable in accordance with § 344.6(d)(1) using the following formula:
Second, calculate the redemption value per § 344.6(d)(2) using the following formula:
(b) The application of this formula can be illustrated by the following examples:
(1) The first example is for a redemption at a premium.
(i) Assume that an $800,000 2-year note is issued on December 10, 1996, to mature on December 10, 1998. Interest is payable at a rate of 7% on June 10 and December 10.
(ii) Assume that the note is redeemed on October 21, 1997, and that the current borrowing rate for Treasury at that time for the remaining period of 1 year and 50 days is 6.25%.
(iii) The redemption value is computed as follows. First, the accrued interest payable is calculated as:
Then, the redemption value is calculated as:
(2) The second example is for a redemption at a discount and it uses the same assumptions as the first example, except the current Treasury borrowing cost is assumed to be 8.00%:
(i) Assume that an $800,000 2-year note is issued on December 10, 1996, to mature on December 10, 1998. Interest is payable at a rate of 7% on June 10 and December 10.
(ii) Assume that the note is redeemed on October 21, 1997, and that the current borrowing rate for Treasury at that time for the remaining period of 1 year and 50 days is 8.00%.
(iii) The redemption value is computed as follows.
First, the accrued interest payable is calculated as:
Then, the redemption value is calculated as:
(c) The total redemption value for certificates of indebtedness can be determined by the following two steps. First, calculate accrued interest payable in accordance with § 344.6(d)(1) using the following formula:
Second, calculate the redemption value per § 344.6(d)(2) using the following equation:
(d) The application of this formula can be illustrated by the following examples.
(1) First, for a redemption at a premium:
(i) Assume that a $300,000 security is issued on December 5, 1996, to mature in 151 days on May 5, 1997. Interest at a rate of 5% is payable at maturity.
(ii) Assume that the security is redeemed on April 9, 1997, and that the current borrowing rate for Treasury at that time for the remaining period of 26 days is 4.00%.
(iii) The redemption value is computed as follows.
First, the accrued interest payable is calculated as:
Then, the redemption value is calculated as:
(2) Secondly, for a redemption at a discount:
(i) Assume that a $300,000 security is issued on December 5, 1996, to mature in 151 days on May 5, 1997. Interest at a rate of 5% is payable at maturity.
(ii) Assume that the security is redeemed on April 9, 1997, and that the current borrowing rate for Treasury at that time for the remaining period of 26 days is 6.25%.
(iii) The redemption value is computed as follows.
First, the accrued interest payable is calculated as:
Then, the redemption value is calculated as:

PART 345—REGULATIONS GOVERNING 5 PERCENT TREASURY CERTIFICATES OF INDEBTEDNESS—R.E.A. SERIES

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 754 and 754b; 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 754 and 754b; 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:38 FR 35306, Dec. 27, 1973, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
38 FR 35306, Dec. 27, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

§ 345.0   Offering of certificates.

The Secretary of the Treasury, under the authority of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, offers to borrowers from the Rural Electrification Administration and Rural Telephone Bank, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 5 Percent Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness—R.E.A. Series. This offering will continue until terminated by the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 345.1   Description of certificates.

(a) General. The certificates of indebtedness will be issued in book-entry form on the books of the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226. They may not be transferred by sale, exchange, assignment or pledge, or otherwise.
General.
The certificates of indebtedness will be issued in book-entry form on the books of the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226. They may not be transferred by sale, exchange, assignment or pledge, or otherwise.
(b) Terms and rates of interest. The certificates, bearing interest at the rate of 5 percent per annum, will be issued in multiples of $1,000 and will mature one year from issue date. Interest on the certificates will be computed on an annual basis and, unless redeemed prior to maturity, will be payable six months from issue date and at maturity. Interest may be paid to an owner by having the amount thereof credited by a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, acting as fiscal agent of the United States, to the reserve account of a member bank servicing such owner and for the latter's account. Such action will be taken at the owner's option. If not exercised, payment of interest will be made by Treasury check.
Terms and rates of interest.
The certificates, bearing interest at the rate of 5 percent per annum, will be issued in multiples of $1,000 and will mature one year from issue date. Interest on the certificates will be computed on an annual basis and, unless redeemed prior to maturity, will be payable six months from issue date and at maturity. Interest may be paid to an owner by having the amount thereof credited by a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, acting as fiscal agent of the United States, to the reserve account of a member bank servicing such owner and for the latter's account. Such action will be taken at the owner's option. If not exercised, payment of interest will be made by Treasury check.
[[38 FR 35306, Dec. 27, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 29846, July 16, 1975]]

§ 345.2   Subscription for purchase.

The recipient of a 5 percent loan from the Rural Electrification Administration or Rural Telephone Bank may subscribe for certificates under this offering, up to the amount of the unexpended portion of the loan, by submitting a subscription, together with the remittance, to the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch of the district in which the subscriber is located. The subscription form must show the amount of certificates desired, and give the title of the designated official of the subscriber authorized to redeem them.
[[40 FR 29846, July 16, 1975]]

§ 345.3   Issue date and payment.

The issue date of a certificate shall be the date on which the subscription form, and funds in full payment therefor, are received by the office described in § 345.2. A confirmation of the issuance, in the form of a written advice, which shall specify the amount and describe the certificates by title and maturity date, shall be issued to the subscriber.

§ 345.4   Redemption/reinvestment.

(a) At maturity. A certificate may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity except when the amount of the unexpended portion of the loan from the Rural Electrification Administration or Rural Telephone Bank is less than the face amount of the certificate. Unless the Treasury has received from the owner, at least one week prior to the maturity date of a certificate, a written request for payment at maturity, it shall automatically redeem the same at maturity, and reinvest in the owner's name the principal amount in a new certificate having the same description in all material respects as the one redeemed. No such automatic reinvestment shall be made, however, in excess of the amount of the unexpended portion of the loan from the Rural Electrification Administration or the Rural Telephone Bank.
At maturity.
A certificate may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity except when the amount of the unexpended portion of the loan from the Rural Electrification Administration or Rural Telephone Bank is less than the face amount of the certificate. Unless the Treasury has received from the owner, at least one week prior to the maturity date of a certificate, a written request for payment at maturity, it shall automatically redeem the same at maturity, and reinvest in the owner's name the principal amount in a new certificate having the same description in all material respects as the one redeemed. No such automatic reinvestment shall be made, however, in excess of the amount of the unexpended portion of the loan from the Rural Electrification Administration or the Rural Telephone Bank.
(b) Prior to maturity. A certificate may be redeemed prior to maturity at par and accrued interest at the owner's option on one week's notice in writing after one month from the issue date. A certificate issued upon reinvestment, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, shall not be subject to the one-month holding period. A notice to redeem a certificate prior to its maturity date must be given by the official authorized to redeem it, as shown in the subscription for purchase, to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Securities Operations, Washington, DC 20226, by letter or wire.
Prior to maturity.
A certificate may be redeemed prior to maturity at par and accrued interest at the owner's option on one week's notice in writing after one month from the issue date. A certificate issued upon reinvestment, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, shall not be subject to the one-month holding period. A notice to redeem a certificate prior to its maturity date must be given by the official authorized to redeem it, as shown in the subscription for purchase, to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Securities Operations, Washington, DC 20226, by letter or wire.

§ 345.5   Taxation.

The income derived from the certificates is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. The certificates are subject to estate, inheritance, gift or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State or any of the possessions of the United States, or by any local taxing authority.
[[40 FR 29846, July 16, 1975]]

§ 345.6   General provisions.

(a) Regulations. Five Percent Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness—R.E.A. Series shall be subject to the general regulations with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in the Department of the Treasury Circular No. 300, current revision (31 CFR part 306), to the extent applicable. Copies of the circular may be obtained from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20226, or a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
Regulations.
Five Percent Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness—R.E.A. Series shall be subject to the general regulations with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in the Department of the Treasury Circular No. 300, current revision (31 CFR part 306), to the extent applicable. Copies of the circular may be obtained from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20226, or a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
(b) Reservations. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to reject any application for the purchase of certificates hereunder, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued any such certificates in any case or any class or classes of cases if he deems such action to be in the public interest, and his action in any such respect shall be final. The Secretary of the Treasury may also at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of these regulations, or of any amendments or supplements thereto.
Reservations.
The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to reject any application for the purchase of certificates hereunder, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued any such certificates in any case or any class or classes of cases if he deems such action to be in the public interest, and his action in any such respect shall be final. The Secretary of the Treasury may also at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of these regulations, or of any amendments or supplements thereto.
[[38 FR 35306, Dec. 27, 1973. Redesignated at 40 FR 29846, July 16, 1975]]

PART 346—REGULATIONS GOVERNING UNITED STATES INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT BONDS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3106 et seq., 3125, 3126.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3106
et seq.,
3125, 3126.
[Source:40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, unless otherwise noted.

§ 346.0   Offering of bonds.

The Secretary of the Treasury, under the authority of the Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, and pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, offers for sale, beginning January 1, 1975, bonds of the United States, designated as United States Individual Retirement Bonds. The bonds will be available for investment only to individuals eligible to make deductions on their Federal income tax returns for retirement savings, as provided in section 2002 of the latter Act. This offering of bonds will terminate on April 30, 1982.
[[40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, as amended at 47 FR 18596, Apr. 30, 1982]]

§ 346.1   Description of bonds.

(a) Investment yield (interest). United States Individual Retirement Bonds, hereinafter sometimes referred to as Individual Retirement Bonds, will be issued at par. The investment yields (interest) are as follows:
Investment yield (interest).
United States Individual Retirement Bonds, hereinafter sometimes referred to as Individual Retirement Bonds, will be issued at par. The investment yields (interest) are as follows:
(1) Bonds with issue dates of January 1, 1975, through July 1, 1979—6 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table of Redemption Values in the appendix).
(2) Bonds with issue dates of August 1, 1979, through October 1, 1980—6.5. percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table A in the appendix).
(3) Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1980, through September 1, 1981—8 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table B).
(4) Bonds with issue dates of October 1, 1981, or thereafter—9 percent per annum, compounded semiannually (see Table C).
Interest will be paid only upon redemption of the bonds. The accrual of interest will continue until the bonds are redeemed or have reached maturity, whichever is earlier, in accordance with these regulations.
(b) Term. The maturity date of any bond issued under this circular shall be the first day of the month in which the registered owner thereof has attained the age of 70
1/2 years, or five years after the date of his death, but no later than the first day of the month in which he would have attained the age of 70
1/2 years, if he had lived. Unless sooner redeemed in accordance with these regulations, the investment yield on a bond will cease on the interest accrual date coinciding with, or, where no such coincidence occurs, the interest accrual date next preceding:
Term.
The maturity date of any bond issued under this circular shall be the first day of the month in which the registered owner thereof has attained the age of 70
1/2
years, or five years after the date of his death, but no later than the first day of the month in which he would have attained the age of 70
1/2
years, if he had lived. Unless sooner redeemed in accordance with these regulations, the investment yield on a bond will cease on the interest accrual date coinciding with, or, where no such coincidence occurs, the interest accrual date next preceding:
(1) The first day of the seventh (7th) month following the 70th anniversary of the birth of the person in whose name it is registered, or
(2) The first day of the sixtieth (60th) month following the date of death of the person in whose name it is registered, except that such date shall be no later than the date on which he would have attained the age of 70
1/2 years, had he lived.
1/2
years, had he lived.
(c) Denominations—issue date. Individual Retirement Bonds will be available only in registered form and in denominations of $50, $75, $100 and $500. At the time of issue, the issuing agent will enter in the upper right-hand portion of the bond the issue date (which shall be the first day of the month and year in which payment of the purchase price is received by an authorized issuing agent), and will imprint the agent's validating stamp in the lower right-hand portion. The issue date, as distinguished from the date in the agent's validating stamp, will determine the date from which interest will begin to accrue on the bond. An Individual Retirement Bond shall be valid only if an authorized issuing agent receives payment therefor, duly inscribes, dates, stamps, and delivers it.
Denominations—issue date.
Individual Retirement Bonds will be available only in registered form and in denominations of $50, $75, $100 and $500. At the time of issue, the issuing agent will enter in the upper right-hand portion of the bond the
issue date
(which shall be the first day of the month and year in which payment of the purchase price is received by an authorized issuing agent), and will imprint the agent's validating stamp in the lower right-hand portion. The issue date, as distinguished from the date in the agent's validating stamp, will determine the date from which interest will begin to accrue on the bond. An Individual Retirement Bond shall be valid only if an authorized issuing agent receives payment therefor, duly inscribes, dates, stamps, and delivers it.
[[40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 37520, July 21, 1977; 46 FR 60577, Dec. 11, 1981]]

§ 346.2   Registration.

(a) General. The registration of Individual Retirement Bonds is limited to the names of natural persons in their own right, whether adults or minors, in either single ownership or beneficiary form. A bond registered in the beneficiary form will be inscribed substantially as follows (for example): “John A. Doe payable on death to (or P.O.D.) Richard B. Roe.” No more than one beneficiary may be designated on a bond.
General.
The registration of Individual Retirement Bonds is limited to the names of natural persons in their own right, whether adults or minors, in either single ownership or beneficiary form. A bond registered in the beneficiary form will be inscribed substantially as follows (for example): “John A. Doe payable on death to (
or
P.O.D.) Richard B. Roe.” No more than one beneficiary may be designated on a bond.
(b) Inscription. The inscription on the face of each bond will show the name, address, and date of birth of the registered owner. The name of the beneficiary, if one is to be designated, will also be shown in the inscription.
Inscription.
The inscription on the face of each bond will show the name, address, and date of birth of the registered owner. The name of the beneficiary, if one is to be designated, will also be shown in the inscription.
[[40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, as amended at 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006]]

§ 346.3   Purchase of bonds.

(a) Agencies. Individual Retirement Bonds may be purchased over-the-counter or by mail from Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226. Customers of commercial banks and trust companies may be able to arrange for the purchase of the bonds through such institutions, but only the Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, and the Department of the Treasury itself, are authorized to issue the securities. The date of receipt of the application and payment by such issuing agencies will govern the dating of the bonds issued.
Agencies.
Individual Retirement Bonds may be purchased over-the-counter or by mail from Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226. Customers of commercial banks and trust companies may be able to arrange for the purchase of the bonds through such institutions, but only the Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, and the Department of the Treasury itself, are authorized to issue the securities. The date of receipt of the application and payment by such issuing agencies will govern the dating of the bonds issued.
(b) Applications. Applications for the purchase of Individual Retirement Bonds should be made on Form PD 4345, accompanied by a remittance to cover the purchase price. Personal checks will be accepted, subject to collection. Checks, or other forms of exchange, should be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank or the U.S. Treasury, as the case may be. Checks payable by endorsement are not acceptable.
Applications.
Applications for the purchase of Individual Retirement Bonds should be made on Form PD 4345, accompanied by a remittance to cover the purchase price. Personal checks will be accepted, subject to collection. Checks, or other forms of exchange, should be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank or the U.S. Treasury, as the case may be. Checks payable by endorsement are not acceptable.
(c) Delivery. Delivery of bonds will be made in person, or by mail at the risk and expense of the United States at the address given by the purchaser, but only within the United States, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zone. No mail deliveries elsewhere will be made. If the registered owner temporarily resides abroad, the bonds will be delivered to such address in the United States as the purchaser directs.
Delivery.
Delivery of bonds will be made in person, or by mail at the risk and expense of the United States at the address given by the purchaser, but only within the United States, its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zone. No mail deliveries elsewhere will be made. If the registered owner temporarily resides abroad, the bonds will be delivered to such address in the United States as the purchaser directs.

§ 346.4   Proof of purchase.

At the time an Individual Retirement Bond is issued, the issuing agent will furnish therewith to the purchaser a copy of Form PD 4345 for the purchaser's personal records. The form will show the name and address of the registered owner, his date of birth, social security account number, the number of bonds issued, a description thereof by issue date, serial numbers, denominations, and registration.

§ 346.5   Limitation on holdings.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of Individual Retirement Bonds which may be registered in any one individual's name is limited to the amount for which an annual deduction may be taken under either section 219 or 220 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
1
 These limitations are as follows:
1
These limitations are as follows:
1 Note: Under the Internal Revenue Code, bonds issued during any given year or within 45 days thereafter may be deducted in that year.
1
Note:
Under the Internal Revenue Code, bonds issued during any given year or within 45 days thereafter may be deducted in that year.
(1) In the case of an individual electing to deduct his or her bond purchase under section 219, the face amount of bonds purchased for tax deduction in any given year may not exceed 15 percent of the individual's earned income for that year or $1,500, whichever is less.
(2) In the case of an individual electing to deduct his or her bond purchases under section 220, the total face amount of bonds purchased for tax deduction in any given year in the name of the individual and in the name of his or her nonworking spouse, may not exceed 15 percent of the working spouse's earned income for that year or $1,750, whichever is less. 
2
2
2 Note: Code section 220 requires, in effect, that the total IRA contributions in each spouse's name to be deducted in any one year be in equal amounts. While it is permissible for an eligible married couple to utilize several different forms of IRA investments within the same year, this means that couples investing solely in bonds must purchase equal amounts of bonds in each spouse's name.
2
Note:
Code section 220 requires, in effect, that the total IRA contributions in each spouse's name to be deducted in any one year be in equal amounts. While it is permissible for an eligible married couple to utilize several different forms of IRA investments within the same year, this means that couples investing solely in bonds must purchase equal amounts of bonds in each spouse's name.
(b) The above limitations do not apply to rollover bond purchases, as described in sections 402(a)(5), 403(a)(4), or 408(d)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(26 U.S.C. 220 and 31 U.S.C. 757)
[[42 FR 37520, July 21, 1977]]

§ 346.6   Nontransferability.

United States Individual Retirement Bonds are not transferable, and may not be sold, discounted or pledged as collateral for a loan or as security for the performance of an obligation, or for any other purpose.

§ 346.7   Judicial proceedings.

No judicial determination will be recognized which would give effect to an attempted voluntary transfer inter vivos of an Individual Retirement Bond. Otherwise, a claim against a registered owner will be recognized when established by valid judicial proceedings, but in no case will payment be made to the purchaser at a sale under a levy or to the officer authorized to levy upon the property of the owner under appropriate process to satisfy a money judgment unless or until the bond has become eligible for authorized redemption pursuant to these regulations. Neither the Department of the Treasury nor any of its agencies will accept notices of adverse claims or of pending judicial proceedings or undertake to protect the interests of litigants who do not have possession of the bond.

§ 346.8   Payment or redemption during lifetime of owner.

(a) During first 12 months of issue date. An Individual Retirement Bond is redeemable at any time during the first twelve (12) months of its issue date. No interest will be paid on any bond so redeemed.
During first 12 months of issue date.
An Individual Retirement Bond is redeemable at any time during the first twelve (12) months of its issue date. No interest will be paid on any bond so redeemed.
(b) Prior to age 59
1/2—(1) With penalty. Unless redeemed within twelve months of its issue, or except as provided under paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section, if an Individual Retirement Bond is cashed by its owner before he attains age 59
1/2, he must include on his Federal income tax return for the year of redemption the value of the bond. In addition, there is an additional income tax equal to 10 percent of the value of the bond imposed by section 409(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
Prior to age 59
1/2
—(1)
With penalty.
Unless redeemed within twelve months of its issue, or except as provided under paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section, if an Individual Retirement Bond is cashed by its owner before he attains age 59
1/2
, he must include on his Federal income tax return for the year of redemption the value of the bond. In addition, there is an additional income tax equal to 10 percent of the value of the bond imposed by section 409(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
(2) In case of disability. An Individual Retirement Bond will be paid at its then current redemption value upon a registered owner's request (or by a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf) prior to his attainment of age 59
1/2 years upon submission of a physician's statement or any similar evidence showing that the owner has become disabled to such an extent that he is unable to engage in any substantial, gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to be of long-continued and indefinite duration. The following are examples of impairments which would ordinarily be considered as preventing substantial, gainful activity:
In case of disability.
An Individual Retirement Bond will be paid at its then current redemption value upon a registered owner's request (or by a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf) prior to his attainment of age 59
1/2
years upon submission of a physician's statement or any similar evidence showing that the owner has become disabled to such an extent that he is unable to engage in any substantial, gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to be of long-continued and indefinite duration. The following are examples of impairments which would ordinarily be considered as preventing substantial, gainful activity:
(i) Loss of use of two limbs.
(ii) Certain progressive diseases which have resulted in the physical loss or atrophy of a limb, such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis, or Buerger's disease.
(iii) Disease of the heart, lungs, or blood vessels which have resulted in major loss of heart or lung reserve as evidenced by X-ray, electrocardiogram, or other objective findings, so that despite medical treatment breathlessness, pain, or fatigue is produced on slight exertion, such as walking several blocks, using public transportation, or doing small chores.
(iv) Cancer which is inoperable and progressive.
(v) Damage to the brain or brain abnormality which has resulted in severe loss of judgment, intellect, orientation, or memory.
(vi) Mental diseases (e.g., psychosis or severe psychoneurosis) requiring continued institutionalization or constant supervision of the individual.
(vii) Loss or diminution of vision to the extent that the effected individual has a central visual acuity of not better than 20/200 in the better eye after best correction, or has a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual fields subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
(viii) Permanent and total loss of speech.
(ix) Total deafness uncorrectible by a hearing aid.
In any case coming under the provisions hereof, the evidence referred to above must be submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101, for approval before any bonds may be paid. If, after review of the evidence, the Secretary of the Treasury is satisfied that the owner's disability has been established a letter will be furnished authorizing payment of his Individual Retirement Bonds. This letter must be presented each time any of the owner's bonds are submitted for payment to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Department of the Treasury.
(c) Prior to age 70
1/2—(1) General. An Individual Retirement Bond will be redeemable at its current redemption value upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), provided he is 59
1/2 years of age or older. The owner's age will be determined from the date of birth shown on the face of the bond, provided, however, that the Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right in any case or class of cases to require proof, in the form of a duly certified copy of his birth certificate, that the owner has attained the age of 59
1/2 years. If such evidence is unavailable, one of the following documents may be furnished in lieu thereof:
Prior to age 70
1/2
—(1)
General.
An Individual Retirement Bond will be redeemable at its current redemption value upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), provided he is 59
1/2
years of age or older. The owner's age will be determined from the date of birth shown on the face of the bond, provided, however, that the Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right in any case or class of cases to require proof, in the form of a duly certified copy of his birth certificate, that the owner has attained the age of 59
1/2
years. If such evidence is unavailable, one of the following documents may be furnished in lieu thereof:
(i) Church records of birth or baptism
(ii) Hospital birth record or certificate
(iii) Physician's or midwife's birth record
(iv) Certification of Bible or other family records
(v) Military, naturalization or immigration records
(vi) Other evidence of probative value.
Similar documentary evidence will also be required to support any claim made by an owner that the date of birth shown on his bond is incorrect.
(2) For change of investment. Under section 409(b)(3)(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, if an Individual Retirement Plan Bond is cashed at any time before the end of the taxable year in which the owner attains age 70
1/2, and the entire redemption proceeds are transferred to an individual retirement account, an individual annuity, an employees' trust, or annuity plan, as described in sections 408(a), 408(b), 401(a) and 403(a), respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code, on or before the 60th day after receipt of such proceeds, they shall be excluded from gross income and the transfer shall be treated as a rollover contribution described in section 408(d)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
For change of investment.
Under section 409(b)(3)(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, if an Individual Retirement Plan Bond is cashed at any time before the end of the taxable year in which the owner attains age 70
1/2
, and the entire redemption proceeds are transferred to an individual retirement account, an individual annuity, an employees' trust, or annuity plan, as described in sections 408(a), 408(b), 401(a) and 403(a), respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code, on or before the 60th day after receipt of such proceeds, they shall be excluded from gross income and the transfer shall be treated as a rollover contribution described in section 408(d)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(d) Requests for payment—(1) By owner. When redemption of any Individual Retirement Bond is desired by the registered owner, it should be presented, with the request for payment on the back of the bond signed and duly certified, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226. If payment is requested on account of disability, the letter described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section should accompany the bond. 
3
Requests for payment
—(1)
By owner.
When redemption of any Individual Retirement Bond is desired by the registered owner, it should be presented, with the request for payment on the back of the bond signed and duly certified, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226. If payment is requested on account of disability, the letter described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section should accompany the bond.
3
3 In any case in which a legal representative has not been appointed for the estate of a registered owner who has attained the age of 59
1/2 years, or who has become disabled, a person seeking payment of a bond on the owner's behalf should furnish a complete statement of the circumstances to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Securities Operations, Washington, DC 20226. Appropriate instructions will then be furnished.
3
In any case in which a legal representative has not been appointed for the estate of a registered owner who has attained the age of 59
1/2
years, or who has become disabled, a person seeking payment of a bond on the owner's behalf should furnish a complete statement of the circumstances to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Securities Operations, Washington, DC 20226. Appropriate instructions will then be furnished.
(2) By person other than owner. When redemption of any Individual Retirement Bond is desired by the legal guardian, committee, conservator, or similar representative of the owner's estate, it should be presented, with the request signed as described below, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Department of the Treasury. If payment is requested on account of disability, the letter described in paragraph (b) (2) of this section should accompany the bond. 
3 The request for payment, in either case, should be signed by the representative in his fiduciary capacity before an authorized certifying officer, and must be supported by a certificate or a certified copy of the letters of appointment from the court making the appointment, under seal, or other proof of qualification if the appointment was not made by a court. Except in the case of corporate fiduciaries, such evidence should state that the appointment is in full force and should be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment.
By person other than owner.
When redemption of any Individual Retirement Bond is desired by the legal guardian, committee, conservator, or similar representative of the owner's estate, it should be presented, with the request signed as described below, to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Department of the Treasury. If payment is requested on account of disability, the letter described in paragraph (b) (2) of this section should accompany the bond.
3
The request for payment, in either case, should be signed by the representative in his fiduciary capacity before an authorized certifying officer, and must be supported by a certificate or a certified copy of the letters of appointment from the court making the appointment, under seal, or other proof of qualification if the appointment was not made by a court. Except in the case of corporate fiduciaries, such evidence should state that the appointment is in full force and should be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment.
(e) Partial redemption. An Individual Retirement Bond in a denomination greater than $50 (face value), which is otherwise eligible for redemption, may be redeemed in part, at current redemption value, upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), but only in amounts corresponding to authorized denominations. In any case in which partial redemption is desired, before the request for payment is signed, the phrase “to the extent of $__ (face value) and reissue of the remainder” should be appended to the request. Upon partial redemption of the bond, the remainder will be reissued as of the original issue date. No partial redemption of a bond will be made after the death of the owner in whose name it is registered.
Partial redemption.
An Individual Retirement Bond in a denomination greater than $50 (face value), which is otherwise eligible for redemption, may be redeemed in part, at current redemption value, upon the request of the registered owner (or a person recognized as entitled to act on his behalf), but only in amounts corresponding to authorized denominations. In any case in which partial redemption is desired, before the request for payment is signed, the phrase “to the extent of $__ (face value) and reissue of the remainder” should be appended to the request. Upon partial redemption of the bond, the remainder will be reissued as of the original issue date. No partial redemption of a bond will be made after the death of the owner in whose name it is registered.
(26 U.S.C. 220 and 31 U.S.C. 757)
[[40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 37520, July 21, 1977]]

§ 346.9   Payment or redemption after death of owner.

(a) Order of precedence where owner not survived by beneficiary. If the registered owner of an Individual Retirement Bond dies before it has been presented and surrendered for payment, and there is no beneficiary shown thereon, or if the designated beneficiary predeceased the owner, the bond shall be paid in the following order of precedence:
Order of precedence where owner not survived by beneficiary.
If the registered owner of an Individual Retirement Bond dies before it has been presented and surrendered for payment, and there is no beneficiary shown thereon, or if the designated beneficiary predeceased the owner, the bond shall be paid in the following order of precedence:
(1) To the duly appointed executor or administrator of the estate of the owner, who should sign the request for payment on the back of the bond in his representative capacity before an authorized certifying officer, such request to be supported by a court certificate or a certified copy of his letters of appointment, under seal of the court, which should show that the appointment is in full force and effect, and be dated within six months of its presentation;
(2) If no legal representative of the deceased registered owner's estate has been or will be appointed, to the widow or widower of the owner;
(3) If none of the above, to the child or children of the owner and the descendants of deceased children by representation;
(4) If none of the above, to the parents of the owner, or the survivor of them;
(5) If none of the above, to other next-of-kin of the owner, as determined by the laws of the domicile of such owner at the time of his death.
In any case coming under the provisions of this paragraph, a duly certified copy of the registered owner's death certificate will ordinarily be required. Proof of death of the beneficiary, if any, will be required where he predeceased the owner. Payment of bonds under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be made by a Federal Reserve Bank or by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226. Payment of bonds under paragraphs (a) (2) through (5) of this section will be made upon receipt of applications on Form PD 3565-1, together with the bonds and supporting evidence, by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
(b) Order of precedence where beneficiary survived owner. If the registered owner of an Individual Retirement Bond dies before it has been presented and surrendered for payment, and the beneficiary shown thereon survived the owner, the bond shall be paid in the following order of precedence:
Order of precedence where beneficiary survived owner.
If the registered owner of an Individual Retirement Bond dies before it has been presented and surrendered for payment, and the beneficiary shown thereon survived the owner, the bond shall be paid in the following order of precedence:
(1) To the designated beneficiary upon his presentation and surrender of the bond with the request for payment signed and duly certified;
(2) If the designated beneficiary survived the registered owner but failed to present the bond for payment during his own lifetime, payment will be made in the order of precedence specified in paragraphs (a) (1) through (5) of this section to the legal representative, surviving spouse, children, parents, or next-of-kin of such beneficiary, and in the manner provided therein.
In any case coming under the provisions of this subsection, a duly certified copy of the registered owner's death certificate will ordinarily be required. Proof of death of the beneficiary will also be required where he survived the owner but failed to present the bond for payment during his own lifetime. Payment of a bond to a designated beneficiary will be made by a Federal Reserve Bank or by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226.
(c) Ownership of redemption proceeds. The orders of precedence set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, except in cases where redemption is made for the account of a registered owner, are for the Department's convenience in discharging its obligation on an Individual Retirement Bond. The discharge of the obligation in accordance therewith shall be final so far as the Department is concerned, but those provisions do not otherwise purport to determine ownership of the redemption proceeds of a bond.
Ownership of redemption proceeds.
The orders of precedence set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, except in cases where redemption is made for the account of a registered owner, are for the Department's convenience in discharging its obligation on an Individual Retirement Bond. The discharge of the obligation in accordance therewith shall be final so far as the Department is concerned, but those provisions do not otherwise purport to determine ownership of the redemption proceeds of a bond.
(26 U.S.C. 220 and 31 U.S.C. 757)
[[40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 37520, July 21, 1977]]

§ 346.10   Reissue.

(a) Addition or change of beneficiary. An Individual Retirement Bond will be reissued to add a beneficiary in the case of a single ownership bond, or to eliminate or substitute a beneficiary in the case of a bond registered in beneficiary form upon the owner's request on Form PD 3564. No consent will be required to support any reissue transaction from a beneficiary whose name is to be removed from the registration of an Individual Retirement Bond. If the registered owner dies after the bond has been presented and surrendered for reissue, upon receipt of notice thereof by the agency to which the request for reissue was submitted, such request shall be treated as ineffective, provided the notice of death is received by the Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101, to which the request was sent, in sufficient time to withhold delivery, by mail or otherwise, of the reissued bond.
Addition or change of beneficiary.
An Individual Retirement Bond will be reissued to add a beneficiary in the case of a single ownership bond, or to eliminate or substitute a beneficiary in the case of a bond registered in beneficiary form upon the owner's request on Form PD 3564. No consent will be required to support any reissue transaction from a beneficiary whose name is to be removed from the registration of an Individual Retirement Bond. If the registered owner dies after the bond has been presented and surrendered for reissue, upon receipt of notice thereof by the agency to which the request for reissue was submitted, such request shall be treated as ineffective, provided the notice of death is received by the Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101, to which the request was sent, in sufficient time to withhold delivery, by mail or otherwise, of the reissued bond.
(b) Error in issue—change of name. Reissue of an Individual Retirement Bond will be made where an error in issue has occurred, as well as in cases where the owner's name has been changed by marriage, divorce, annulment, order of court, or in any other legal manner upon an appropriate request. Information as to the procedure to be followed in securing such reissue may be obtained from a Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
Error in issue—change of name.
Reissue of an Individual Retirement Bond will be made where an error in issue has occurred, as well as in cases where the owner's name has been changed by marriage, divorce, annulment, order of court, or in any other legal manner upon an appropriate request. Information as to the procedure to be followed in securing such reissue may be obtained from a Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
(26 U.S.C. 220 and 31 U.S.C. 757)
[[40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 37520, July 21, 1977]]

§ 346.11   Use of power of attorney.

No designation of an attorney, agent, or other representative to request payment or reissue on behalf of the owner, beneficiary, or other person entitled under § 346.9, other than as provided in these regulations, will be recognized.

§ 346.12   Lost, stolen, or destroyed bonds.

If an Individual Retirement Bond is lost, stolen, or destroyed, relief will be granted upon identification of the bond and proof of its loss, theft, or destruction. A description of the bond by denomination, serial number, issue date and registration should be furnished at the time the report of loss, theft, or destruction is made. Such reports should be sent to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101. Full instructions for obtaining substitute bonds, or payment, in appropriate cases, will then be given.
(26 U.S.C. 220 and 31 U.S.C. 757)
[[40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 37520, July 21, 1977]]

§ 346.13   Taxation.

The tax treatment provided under section 409 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, shall apply to all Individual Retirement Bonds. The bonds are subject to estate, inheritance, or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest thereof by any State, municipality, or any local taxing authority. Inquiry concerning the application of any Federal tax to these bonds should be directed to the District Director of Internal Revenue for the district in which the taxpayer resides.

§ 346.14   Certifying officers.

Officers authorized to certify requests for payment or for any other transaction involving Individual Retirement Bonds include:
(a) Post offices. Any postmaster, acting postmaster, or inspector-in-charge, or other post office official or clerk designated for that purpose. A post office official or clerk, other than a postmaster, acting postmaster, or inspector-in-charge, should certify in the name of the postmaster or acting postmaster, followed by his own signature and official title. Signatures of these officers should be authenticated by a legible imprint of the post office dating stamp.
Post offices.
Any postmaster, acting postmaster, or inspector-in-charge, or other post office official or clerk designated for that purpose. A post office official or clerk, other than a postmaster, acting postmaster, or inspector-in-charge, should certify in the name of the postmaster or acting postmaster, followed by his own signature and official title. Signatures of these officers should be authenticated by a legible imprint of the post office dating stamp.
(b) Banks and trust companies. Any officer of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or of a bank or trust company chartered under the laws of the United States or those of any State, Commonwealth, or Territory of the United States, as well as any employees of such bank or trust company expressly authorized to act for that purpose, who should sign over the title “Designated Employee.” Certifications by any of these officers or designated employees should be authenticated by either a legible imprint of the corporate seal, or, where the institution is an authorized issuing agent for United States Savings Bonds, Series E, by a legible imprint of its dating stamp.
Banks and trust companies.
Any officer of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or of a bank or trust company chartered under the laws of the United States or those of any State, Commonwealth, or Territory of the United States, as well as any employees of such bank or trust company expressly authorized to act for that purpose, who should sign over the title “Designated Employee.” Certifications by any of these officers or designated employees should be authenticated by either a legible imprint of the corporate seal, or, where the institution is an authorized issuing agent for United States Savings Bonds, Series E, by a legible imprint of its dating stamp.
(c) Issuing agents of Series E savings bonds. Any officer of a corporation or any other organization which is an authorized issuing agent for United States Savings Bonds, Series E. All certifications by such officers must be authenticated by a legible imprint of the issuing agent's dating stamp.
Issuing agents of Series E savings bonds.
Any officer of a corporation or any other organization which is an authorized issuing agent for United States Savings Bonds, Series E. All certifications by such officers must be authenticated by a legible imprint of the issuing agent's dating stamp.
(d) Foreign countries. In a foreign country requests may be signed in the presence of and be certified by any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the manager or other officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate seal or is certified to the Department of the Treasury. If such an officer is not available, requests may be signed in the presence of and be certified by a notary or other officer authorized to administer oaths, but his official character and jurisdiction should be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his office.
Foreign countries.
In a foreign country requests may be signed in the presence of and be certified by any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the manager or other officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate seal or is certified to the Department of the Treasury. If such an officer is not available, requests may be signed in the presence of and be certified by a notary or other officer authorized to administer oaths, but his official character and jurisdiction should be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his office.
(e) Special provisions. The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, or his delegate, or any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for certification in any particular case or class of cases where none of the officers authorized above is readily accessible.
Special provisions.
The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, or his delegate, or any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for certification in any particular case or class of cases where none of the officers authorized above is readily accessible.

§ 346.15   General provisions.

(a) Regulations. All Individual Retirement Bonds shall be subject to the general regulations prescribed by the Secretary with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in Department of the Treasury Circular No. 300, current revision, to the extent applicable. Copies of the general regulations may be obtained upon request from any Federal Reserve Bank or the Department of the Treasury.
Regulations.
All Individual Retirement Bonds shall be subject to the general regulations prescribed by the Secretary with respect to United States securities, which are set forth in Department of the Treasury Circular No. 300, current revision, to the extent applicable. Copies of the general regulations may be obtained upon request from any Federal Reserve Bank or the Department of the Treasury.
(b) Reservation as to issue of bonds. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to reject any application for the purchase of Individual Retirement Bonds, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued any such bonds in any case or any class or classes of cases if he deems such action to be in the public interest, and his action in any such respect shall be final.
Reservation as to issue of bonds.
The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to reject any application for the purchase of Individual Retirement Bonds, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued any such bonds in any case or any class or classes of cases if he deems such action to be in the public interest, and his action in any such respect shall be final.
(c) Additional requirements. In any case or any class of cases arising under this circular, the Secretary of the Treasury may require such additional evidence as may in his judgment be necessary, and may require a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, where he may consider such bond necessary for the protection of the United States.
Additional requirements.
In any case or any class of cases arising under this circular, the Secretary of the Treasury may require such additional evidence as may in his judgment be necessary, and may require a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, where he may consider such bond necessary for the protection of the United States.
(d) Waiver of requirements. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, in his discretion, to waive or modify any provision or provisions of this circular in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States, or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not impair any existing rights, and he is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
Waiver of requirements.
The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right, in his discretion, to waive or modify any provision or provisions of this circular in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States, or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not impair any existing rights, and he is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
(e) Fiscal agents. Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the issue, delivery, redemption, reissue, and payment of Individual Retirement Bonds.
Fiscal agents.
Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the issue, delivery, redemption, reissue, and payment of Individual Retirement Bonds.
(f) Reservation as to terms of circular. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this circular, or any amendments or supplements thereto.
Reservation as to terms of circular.
The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, supplement or amend the terms of this circular, or any amendments or supplements thereto.

Appendix to Part 346—Tables

Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 6 Percent per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning January 1, 1975
Note: This table shows how Individual Retirement Bonds bearing issue dates on or after January 1, 1975, by denomination, increase in redemption value during the successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values provide an investment yield of approximately 6 pct/annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. No increase in redemption value is shown, however, until 1 year after issue date since no interest may be paid on bonds redeemed before that time. The period to maturity is fixed in accordance with the provisions of § 346.1(b) of this circular.
Note:
This table shows how Individual Retirement Bonds bearing issue dates on or after January 1, 1975, by denomination, increase in redemption value during the successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values provide an investment yield of approximately 6 pct/annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. No increase in redemption value is shown, however, until 1 year after issue date since no interest may be paid on bonds redeemed before that time. The period to maturity is fixed in accordance with the provisions of § 346.1(b) of this circular.
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50.00
$75.00
$100.00
$500.00
1st
$50.00
$75.00
$100.00
$500.00
1 to 1
1
⁄
2
53.05
79.57
106.10
530.50
1
1
⁄
2
to 2
54.64
81.95
109.28
546.40
2 to 2
1
⁄
2
56.28
84.41
112.56
562.80
2
1
⁄
2
to 3
57.96
86.95
115.92
579.60
3 to 3
1
⁄
2
59.70
89.55
119.40
597.00
3
1
⁄
2
to 4
61.49
92.24
122.98
614.90
4 to 4
1
⁄
2
63.34
95.01
126.68
633.40
4
1
⁄
2
to 5
65.24
97.86
130.48
652.40
5 to 5
1
⁄
2
67.20
100.79
134.40
672.00
5
1
⁄
2
to 6
69.21
103.82
138.42
692.10
6 to 6
1
⁄
2
71.29
106.93
142.58
712.90
6
1
⁄
2
to 7
73.43
110.14
146.86
734.30
7 to 7
1
⁄
2
75.63
113.44
151.26
756.30
7
1
⁄
2
to 8
77.90
116.85
155.80
779.00
8 to 8
1
⁄
2
80.24
120.35
160.48
802.40
8
1
⁄
2
to 9
82.64
123.96
165.28
826.40
9 to 9
1
⁄
2
85.12
127.68
170.24
851.20
9
1
⁄
2
to 10
87.68
131.51
175.36
876.80
10 to 10
1
⁄
2
90.31
135.46
180.62
903.10
10
1
⁄
2
to 11
93.01
139.52
186.02
930.10
11 to 11
1
⁄
2
95.81
143.71
191.62
958.10
11
1
⁄
2
to 12
98.68
148.02
197.36
986.80
12 to 12
1
⁄
2
101.64
152.46
203.28
1,016.40
12
1
⁄
2
to 13
104.69
157.03
209.38
1,046.90
13 to 13
1
⁄
2
107.83
161.74
215.66
1,078.30
13
1
⁄
2
to 14
111.06
166.60
222.12
1,110.60
14 to 14
1
⁄
2
114.40
171.59
228.80
1,144.00
14
1
⁄
2
to 15
117.83
176.74
235.66
1,178.30
15 to 15
1
⁄
2
121.36
182.04
242.72
1,213.60
15
1
⁄
2
to 16
125.00
187.51
250.00
1,250.00
16 to 16
1
⁄
2
128.75
193.13
257.50
1,287.50
16
1
⁄
2
to 17
132.62
198.93
265.24
1,326.20
17 to 17
1
⁄
2
136.60
204.89
273.20
1,366.00
17
1
⁄
2
to 18
140.69
211.04
281.38
1,406.90
18 to 18
1
⁄
2
144.91
217.37
289.82
1,449.10
18
1
⁄
2
to 19
149.26
223.89
298.52
1,492.60
19 to 19
1
⁄
2
153.74
230.61
307.48
1,537.40
19
1
⁄
2
to 20
158.35
237.53
316.70
1,583.50
20 to 20
1
⁄
2
163.10
244.65
326.20
1,631.00
Table A—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 6.50 Percent per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning Aug. 1, 1979
Note: This table shows how Individual Retirement Bonds bearing issue dates on or after August 1, 1979, by denomination, increase in redemption value during the successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values provide an investment yield of approximately 6.50 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. No increase in redemption value is shown, however, until 1 year after issue date since no interest may be paid on bonds redeemed before that time. The period to maturity is fixed in accordance with the provisions of § 346.1(b) of this circular.
Note:
This table shows how Individual Retirement Bonds bearing issue dates on or after August 1, 1979, by denomination, increase in redemption value during the successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values provide an investment yield of approximately 6.50 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. No increase in redemption value is shown, however, until 1 year after issue date since no interest may be paid on bonds redeemed before that time. The period to maturity is fixed in accordance with the provisions of § 346.1(b) of this circular.
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50
$75
$100
$500
1st
$50.00
$75.00
$100.00
$500.00
1 to 1
1
⁄
2
53.30
79.95
106.60
533.00
1
1
⁄
2
to 2
55.04
82.56
110.08
550.40
2 to 2
1
⁄
2
56.82
85.23
113.64
568.20
2
1
⁄
2
to 3
58.68
88.02
117.36
586.80
3 to 3
1
⁄
2
60.58
90.87
121.16
605.80
3
1
⁄
2
to 4
62.54
93.81
125.08
625.40
4 to 4
1
⁄
2
64.58
96.87
129.16
645.80
4
1
⁄
2
to 5
66.68
100.02
133.36
666.80
5 to 5
1
⁄
2
68.84
103.26
137.68
688.40
5
1
⁄
2
to 6
71.08
106.62
142.16
710.80
6 to 6
1
⁄
2
73.40
110.10
146.80
734.00
6
1
⁄
2
to 7
75.78
113.67
151.56
757.80
7 to 7
1
⁄
2
78.24
117.36
156.48
782.40
7
1
⁄
2
to 8
80.78
121.17
161.56
807.80
8 to 8
1
⁄
2
83.40
125.10
166.80
834.00
8
1
⁄
2
to 9
86.12
129.18
172.24
861.20
9 to 9
1
⁄
2
88.92
133.38
177.84
889.20
9
1
⁄
2
to 10
91.80
137.70
183.60
918.00
10 to 10
1
⁄
2
94.80
142.20
189.60
948.00
10
1
⁄
2
to 11
97.88
146.82
195.76
978.80
11 to 11
1
⁄
2
101.06
151.59
202.12
1,010.60
11
1
⁄
2
to 12
104.34
156.51
208.68
1,043.40
12 to 12
1
⁄
2
107.72
161.58
215.44
1,077.20
12
1
⁄
2
to 13
111.22
166.83
222.44
1,112.20
13 to 13
1
⁄
2
114.84
172.26
229.68
1,148.40
13
1
⁄
2
to 14
118.58
177.87
237.16
1,185.80
14 to 14
1
⁄
2
122.44
183.66
244.88
1,224.40
14
1
⁄
2
to 15
126.42
189.63
252.84
1,264.20
15 to 15
1
⁄
2
130.52
195.78
261.04
1,305.20
15
1
⁄
2
to 16
134.76
202.14
269.52
1,347.60
16 to 16
1
⁄
2
139.14
208.71
278.28
1,391.40
16
1
⁄
2
to 17
143.66
215.49
287.32
1,436.60
17 to 17
1
⁄
2
148.34
222.51
296.68
1,483.40
17
1
⁄
2
to 18
153.16
229.74
306.32
1,531.60
18 to 18
1
⁄
2
158.12
237.18
316.24
1,581.20
18
1
⁄
2
to 19
163.26
244.89
326.52
1,632.60
19 to 19
1
⁄
2
168.58
252.87
337.16
1,685.80
19
1
⁄
2
to 20
174.06
261.09
348.12
1,740.60
20 to 20
1
⁄
2
179.72
269.58
359.44
1,797.20
Table B—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 8.00 Percent Per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning November 1, 1980
Note: This table shows how Individual Retirement Bonds bearing issue dates on or after November 1, 1980, by denomination, increase in redemption value during the successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values provide an investment yield of approximately 8.00 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. No increase in redemption value is shown, however, until 1 year after issue date since no interest may be paid on bonds redeemed before that time. The period to maturity is fixed in accordance with the provisions of § 346.1(b) of this circular.
Note:
This table shows how Individual Retirement Bonds bearing issue dates on or after November 1, 1980, by denomination, increase in redemption value during the successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values provide an investment yield of approximately 8.00 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. No increase in redemption value is shown, however, until 1 year after issue date since no interest may be paid on bonds redeemed before that time. The period to maturity is fixed in accordance with the provisions of § 346.1(b) of this circular.
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50.00
$75.00
$100.00
$500.00
First half year
$50.00
$75.00
$100.00
$500.00
1.0 to 1.5
54.08
81.12
108.16
540.80
1.5 to 2.0
56.24
84.36
112.48
562.40
2.0 to 2.5
58.50
87.75
117.00
585.00
2.5 to 3.0
60.84
91.26
121.68
608.40
3.0 to 3.5
63.26
94.89
126.52
632.60
3.5 to 4.0
65.80
98.70
131.60
658.00
4.0 to 4.5
68.42
102.63
136.84
684.20
4.5 to 5.0
71.16
106.74
142.32
711.60
5.0 to 5.5
74.02
111.03
148.04
740.20
5.5 to 6.0
76.98
115.47
153.96
769.80
6.0 to 6.5
80.06
120.09
160.12
800.60
6.5 to 7.0
83.26
124.89
166.52
832.60
7.0 to 7.5
86.58
129.87
173.16
865.80
7.5 to 8.0
90.04
135.06
180.08
900.40
8.0 to 8.5
93.64
140.46
187.28
936.40
8.5 to 9.0
97.40
146.10
194.80
974.00
9.0 to 9.5
101.30
151.95
202.60
1,013.00
9.5 to 10.0
105.34
158.01
210.68
1,053.40
10.0 to 10.5
109.56
164.34
219.12
1,095.60
10.5 to 11.0
113.94
170.91
227.88
1,139.40
11.0 to 11.5
118.50
177.75
237.00
1,185.00
11.5 to 12.0
123.24
184.86
246.48
1,232.40
12.0 to 12.5
128.16
192.24
256.32
1,281.60
12.5 to 13.0
133.30
199.95
266.60
1,333.00
13.0 to 13.5
138.62
207.93
277.24
1,386.20
13.5 to 14.0
144.16
216.24
288.32
1,441.60
14.0 to 14.5
149.94
224.91
299.88
1,499.40
14.5 to 15.0
155.94
233.91
311.88
1,559.40
15.0 to 15.5
162.16
243.24
324.32
1,621.60
15.5 to 16.0
168.66
252.99
337.32
1,686.60
16.0 to 16.5
175.40
263.10
350.80
1,754.00
16.5 to 17.0
182.42
273.63
364.84
1,824.20
17.0 to 17.5
189.72
284.58
379.44
1,897.20
17.5 to 18.0
197.30
295.95
394.60
1,973.00
18.0 to 18.5
205.20
307.80
410.40
2,052.00
18.5 to 19.0
213.40
320.10
426.80
2,134.00
19.0 to 19.5
221.94
332.91
443.88
2,219.40
19.5 to 20.0
230.82
346.23
461.64
2,308.20
20.0 to 20.5
240.06
360.09
480.12
2,400.60
Table C—Table of Redemption Values Providing an Investment Yield of 9.00 Percent Per Annum for Bonds Bearing Issue Dates Beginning October 1, 1981
Note: This table shows how Individual Retirement Bonds bearing issue dates on or after October 1, 1981, by denomination, increase in redemption value during the successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values provide an investment yield of approximately 9.00 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. No increase in redemption value is shown, however, until 1 year after issue date since no interest may be paid on bonds redeemed before that time. The period to maturity is fixed in acordance with the provisions of § 346.1(b) of this circular.
Note:
This table shows how Individual Retirement Bonds bearing issue dates on or after October 1, 1981, by denomination, increase in redemption value during the successive half-year periods following issue. The redemption values provide an investment yield of approximately 9.00 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, on the purchase price from issue date to the beginning of each half-year period. No increase in redemption value is shown, however, until 1 year after issue date since no interest may be paid on bonds redeemed before that time. The period to maturity is fixed in acordance with the provisions of § 346.1(b) of this circular.
Period after issue date (years)
Issue price
Redemption values during each half-year period (values increase on first day of period shown)
$50.00
$75.00
$100.00
$500.00
First half
$50.00
$75.00
$100.00
$500.00
1.0 to 1.5
54.60
81.90
109.20
546.00
1.5 to 2.0
57.06
85.59
114.12
570.60
2.0 to 2.5
59.62
89.43
119.24
596.20
2.5 to 3.0
62.30
93.45
124.60
623.00
3.0 to 3.5
65.12
97.68
130.24
651.20
3.5 to 4.0
68.04
102.06
136.08
680.40
4.0 to 4.5
71.10
106.65
142.20
711.00
4.5 to 5.0
74.30
111.45
148.60
743.00
5.0 to 5.5
77.64
116.46
155.28
776.40
5.5 to 6.0
81.14
121.71
162.28
811.40
6.0 to 6.5
84.80
127.20
169.60
848.00
6.5 to 7.0
88.60
132.90
177.20
886.00
7.0 to 7.5
92.60
138.90
185.20
926.00
7.5 to 8.0
96.76
145.14
193.52
967.60
8.0 to 8.5
101.12
151.68
202.24
1,011.20
8.5 to 9.0
105.66
158.49
211.32
1,056.60
9.0 to 9.5
110.42
165.63
220.84
1,104.20
9.5 to 10.0
115.40
173.10
230.80
1,154.00
10.0 to 10.5
120.58
180.87
241.16
1,205.80
10.5 to 11.0
126.02
189.03
252.04
1,260.20
11.0 to 11.5
131.68
197.52
263.36
1,316.80
11.5 to 12.0
137.60
206.40
275.20
1,376.00
12.0 to 12.5
143.80
215.70
287.60
1,438.00
12.5 to 13.0
150.28
225.42
300.56
1,502.80
13.0 to 13.5
157.04
235.56
314.08
1,570.40
13.5 to 14.0
164.10
246.15
328.20
1,641.00
14.0 to 14.5
171.48
257.22
342.96
1,714.80
14.5 to 15.0
179.20
268.80
358.40
1,792.00
15.0 to 15.5
187.26
280.89
374.52
1,872.60
15.5 to 16.0
195.70
293.55
391.40
1,957.00
16.0 to 16.5
204.50
306.75
409.00
2,045.00
16.5 to 17.0
213.70
320.55
427.40
2,137.00
17.0 to 17.5
223.32
334.98
446.64
2,233.20
17.5 to 18.0
233.36
350.04
466.72
2,333.60
18.0 to 18.5
243.86
365.79
487.72
2,438.60
18.5 to 19.0
254.84
382.26
509.68
2,548.40
19.0 to 19.5
266.32
399.48
532.64
2,663.20
19.5 to 20.0
278.30
417.45
556.60
2,783.00
20.0 to 20.5
290.82
436.23
581.64
2,908.20
(26 U.S.C. 220, and 31 U.S.C. 757; 40 Stat. 288, 48 Stat. 343, as amended; 31 U.S.C. 752, 7546; 5 U.S.C. 301)
[[40 FR 4240, Jan. 28, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 37521, July 21, 1977; 45 FR 53397, Aug. 11, 1980; 45 FR 55178, Aug. 19, 1980; 46 FR 60577, Dec. 11, 1981]]

PART 347—REGULATIONS GOVERNING RETIREMENT SAVINGS BONDS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 90; 31 U.S.C. 3105.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 90; 31 U.S.C. 3105.
[Source:79 FR 74024, Dec. 15, 2014, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
79 FR 74024, Dec. 15, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 347.0   Offering of securities.

The Secretary of the Treasury (the Secretary), under the authority of Title 31, Chapter 31, offers retirement savings bonds to the IRA custodian for Treasury's retirement savings program and to the Auto-IRA custodians for certain state Auto-IRA programs. The nonmarketable bonds are issued to and held by the custodians, on behalf of participants, in Treasury's program and state programs. This offering will continue until terminated by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. Treasury's Fiscal Assistant Secretary is authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary on all matters contained in these regulations. The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary, is delegated the responsibility to administer this part through the Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service).
[[82 FR 6245, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.1   Applicability.

The regulations in this part apply to retirement savings bonds issued, on behalf of participants, to the IRA custodian for Treasury's retirement savings program and to the Auto-IRA custodians for state Auto-IRA programs.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.2   Official agencies.

(a) Fiscal Service is responsible for administering Treasury's retirement savings program and for issuing the retirement savings bonds to the IRA custodian for Treasury's retirement savings program and to the Auto-IRA custodians for certain state Auto-IRA programs. The states are responsible for administering their Auto-IRA retirement savings programs, including the designation of Auto-IRA custodians to perform all operational responsibilities associated with the retirement savings bonds issued by Fiscal Service.
(b) Communications concerning transactions relating to an individual's IRA should be addressed to the appropriate custodian.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.3   Definitions.

(a) Auto-IRA means an individual retirement account for or opened on behalf of a participant in a state retirement savings program (whether or not the program provides for automatic enrollment).
Auto-IRA
means an individual retirement account for or opened on behalf of a participant in a state retirement savings program (whether or not the program provides for automatic enrollment).
(b) State Auto-IRA program means a state Auto-IRA retirement savings program.
State Auto-IRA program
means a state Auto-IRA retirement savings program.
(c) IRA means an individual retirement account.
IRA
means an individual retirement account.
(d) Custodian means a trustee or custodian of a Roth IRA or traditional IRA.
Custodian
means a trustee or custodian of a Roth IRA or traditional IRA.
(e) State means any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or certain of their political subdivisions.
State
means any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or certain of their political subdivisions.
(f) Auto-IRA custodian means an entity designated by a state (including, for the purpose of these regulations, political subdivisions of states) to act as the trustee or custodian for Auto-IRAs, in the form of Roth IRAs or traditional IRAs, for or opened on behalf of participants in a state Auto-IRA program.
Auto-IRA custodian
means an entity designated by a state (including, for the purpose of these regulations, political subdivisions of states) to act as the trustee or custodian for Auto-IRAs, in the form of Roth IRAs or traditional IRAs, for or opened on behalf of participants in a state Auto-IRA program.
(g) Retirement savings bond, as used in this part, means an interest-bearing electronic United States savings bond issued to an Auto-IRA or IRA custodian.
Retirement savings bond,
as used in this part, means an interest-bearing electronic United States savings bond issued to an Auto-IRA or IRA custodian.
(h) IRA custodian means an entity designated by Fiscal Service to act as a custodian for Roth IRAs opened by or on behalf of participants in Treasury's retirement savings program.
IRA custodian
means an entity designated by Fiscal Service to act as a custodian for Roth IRAs opened by or on behalf of participants in Treasury's retirement savings program.
(i) Individual means a person eligible to have an IRA in Treasury's retirement savings program or in a state Auto-IRA program.
Individual
means a person eligible to have an IRA in Treasury's retirement savings program or in a state Auto-IRA program.
(j) Participant means an individual who has an IRA in Treasury's retirement savings program or in a state Auto-IRA program.
Participant
means an individual who has an IRA in Treasury's retirement savings program or in a state Auto-IRA program.
(k) Roth IRA means an individual retirement account defined under 26 U.S.C. 408A.
Roth IRA
means an individual retirement account defined under 26 U.S.C. 408A.
(l) Treasury means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
(m) Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
[[79 FR 74024, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

Subpart B—Treasury's Retirement Savings Program


§ 347.10   Authorized form of registration.

(a) Retirement savings bonds are issued to the IRA custodian for Treasury's retirement savings program. No other registrations under this subpart are permitted.
(b) In the event Fiscal Service designates a successor IRA custodian, Fiscal Service may reissue retirement savings bonds held by the predecessor custodian to the successor custodian.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.11   Crediting of retirement savings bond.

Each retirement savings bond issued to the IRA custodian must be credited to a single Roth IRA established through Treasury's retirement savings program with the custodian.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.12   Annual additions to retirement savings bond.

The amount that initially may be contributed or added to a retirement savings bond in a calendar year by the IRA custodian on behalf of any participant is limited by the applicable annual contribution limits provided under the Internal Revenue Code and regulations. The total value of a retirement savings bond that may be held by the IRA custodian in an IRA on behalf of any participant shall not exceed $15,000.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.13   Individual additions to retirement savings bond.

Fiscal Service is authorized to establish minimum amounts for initial and additional contributions to a retirement savings bond under this subpart.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.14   Payment (redemption).

Payment of retirement savings bonds will be made to the IRA custodian upon the custodian's submission of a request for redemption to Fiscal Service. The custodian shall request the redemption of all retirement savings bonds at their respective maturity. The custodian shall request the full or partial redemption of a bond held on behalf of a participant upon the request of the participant or other authorized person entitled to amounts in the IRA. Retirement savings bond redemptions will be rounded to the nearest one cent.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.15   Computation of interest.

Retirement savings bonds under this subpart earn interest at the same annual percentage rate as securities issued to the Government Securities Investment Fund (G Fund) in the Thrift Savings Plan for federal employees. The Secretary calculates the G Fund interest rate pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8438(e)(2). The retirement savings bond interest rate compounds daily at 1/360 of the annual percentage rate. Retirement savings bonds will cease to accrue interest on the date of their maturity.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

§ 347.16   Maturity.

The maturity date for retirement savings bonds is indeterminate and may be different for each bond issued, but shall not exceed the sum of an original maturity period of 20 years and an extended maturity period of 10 years. A retirement savings bond purchased by the IRA custodian on behalf of a participant will mature at the earlier of 30 years from the date the bond is first issued to the custodian on behalf of the participant or when its value reaches $15,000.
[[82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]]

Subpart C—Auto-IRA Programs

[Source:82 FR 6247, Jan. 19, 2017, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
82 FR 6247, Jan. 19, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

§ 347.30   Plan requirements for State Auto-IRA programs.

(a) Authorized form of registration. Retirement savings bonds are issued to Auto-IRA custodians for state Auto-IRA programs. No other registrations under this subpart are permitted.
Authorized form of registration.
Retirement savings bonds are issued to Auto-IRA custodians for state Auto-IRA programs. No other registrations under this subpart are permitted.
(b) Documentation. A state Auto-IRA program must provide documentation to Fiscal Service annually, in a form and manner acceptable to Fiscal Service, addressing the following topics:
Documentation.
A state Auto-IRA program must provide documentation to Fiscal Service annually, in a form and manner acceptable to Fiscal Service, addressing the following topics:
(1) Administration—servicing of the retirement savings bonds, such as account maintenance, recordkeeping, and establishment of procedures for automatic payroll direct deposit contributions (or other funding means permitted under state Auto-IRA programs);
Administration
—servicing of the retirement savings bonds, such as account maintenance, recordkeeping, and establishment of procedures for automatic payroll direct deposit contributions (or other funding means permitted under state Auto-IRA programs);
(2) Account monitoring—tracking and, when applicable, redeeming and reallocating retirement savings bond holdings (which may include investment diversification strategies) no later than when a retirement savings bond that may be held by the Auto-IRA custodian on behalf of a participant in a state Auto-IRA program reaches the $15,000 maximum dollar threshold or 30 years, whichever occurs first;
Account monitoring
—tracking and, when applicable, redeeming and reallocating retirement savings bond holdings (which may include investment diversification strategies) no later than when a retirement savings bond that may be held by the Auto-IRA custodian on behalf of a participant in a state Auto-IRA program reaches the $15,000 maximum dollar threshold or 30 years, whichever occurs first;
(3) Ability to transfer—addressing how the state Auto-IRA program enables participants, at their discretion, to redeem their retirement savings bonds prior to maturity and transfer their retirement savings bond proceeds to another investment available in the State Auto-IRA program or to another provider, without imposing unreasonable restrictions on voluntary investment diversification (which might occur through a transfer within or outside of a state Auto-IRA program);
Ability to transfer
—addressing how the state Auto-IRA program enables participants, at their discretion, to redeem their retirement savings bonds prior to maturity and transfer their retirement savings bond proceeds to another investment available in the State Auto-IRA program or to another provider, without imposing unreasonable restrictions on voluntary investment diversification (which might occur through a transfer within or outside of a state Auto-IRA program);
(4) Withdrawals—addressing how the state Auto-IRA program enables participants, at their discretion, to make reasonable withdrawals from their Auto-IRAs;
Withdrawals
—addressing how the state Auto-IRA program enables participants, at their discretion, to make reasonable withdrawals from their Auto-IRAs;
(5) Consumer protection—addressing consumer protections in the program, including disclosures provided to participants;
Consumer protection
—addressing consumer protections in the program, including disclosures provided to participants;
(6) Costs of administration—describing any fees or other costs or expenses passed on to or otherwise borne by participants under the state Auto-IRA program (e.g., no more than reasonable administrative, custodial, asset management, or other fees, costs, or expenses);
Costs of administration
—describing any fees or other costs or expenses passed on to or otherwise borne by participants under the state Auto-IRA program (e.g., no more than reasonable administrative, custodial, asset management, or other fees, costs, or expenses);
(7) Oversight—addressing state Auto-IRA program oversight of Auto-IRA custodians and describing any protections in place for participants' funds invested in retirement savings bonds, including information relating to the protection of participants' funds in the event that the Auto-IRA custodian files for bankruptcy or otherwise experiences financial stress;
Oversight
—addressing state Auto-IRA program oversight of Auto-IRA custodians and describing any protections in place for participants' funds invested in retirement savings bonds, including information relating to the protection of participants' funds in the event that the Auto-IRA custodian files for bankruptcy or otherwise experiences financial stress;
(8) Pooling—prohibiting the inclusion of retirement savings bonds as a component of another investment or asset category (such as a mutual fund or target-date fund);
Pooling
—prohibiting the inclusion of retirement savings bonds as a component of another investment or asset category (such as a mutual fund or target-date fund);
(9) Default investment—obtaining, if applicable, Fiscal Service's further consent before any use of retirement savings bonds as a default, sole, or mandatory investment, even if temporary;
Default investment
—obtaining, if applicable, Fiscal Service's further consent before any use of retirement savings bonds as a default, sole, or mandatory investment, even if temporary;
(10) Consumer education—describing plans to provide financial education to participants; and
Consumer education
—describing plans to provide financial education to participants; and
(11) Certification—requiring a statement signed by an authorized senior official certifying that the documentation provided to Fiscal Service is accurate and complete, and that procedures are in place to timely notify Fiscal Service of any material changes in the future.
Certification
—requiring a statement signed by an authorized senior official certifying that the documentation provided to Fiscal Service is accurate and complete, and that procedures are in place to timely notify Fiscal Service of any material changes in the future.
(c) Successor custodian. In the event a state Auto-IRA program designates a successor Auto-IRA custodian, that program may request that Fiscal Service reissue the retirement savings bonds held by the predecessor custodian to the successor custodian.
Successor custodian.
In the event a state Auto-IRA program designates a successor Auto-IRA custodian, that program may request that Fiscal Service reissue the retirement savings bonds held by the predecessor custodian to the successor custodian.

§ 347.31   Crediting of retirement savings bond.

Each retirement savings bond issued to an Auto-IRA custodian must be credited to an IRA under the state Auto-IRA program with the custodian.

§ 347.32   Annual additions to retirement savings bond.

The amount that initially may be contributed or added to a retirement savings bond in a calendar year by an Auto-IRA custodian on behalf of any participant is limited by the applicable annual contribution limits provided under the Internal Revenue Code and regulations. The total value of a retirement savings bond that may be held by an Auto-IRA custodian in an IRA on behalf of any participant shall not exceed $15,000 for each state Auto-IRA program.

§ 347.33   Individual additions to retirement savings bond.

Fiscal Service is authorized to establish minimum amounts for initial and additional contributions to a retirement savings bond under this subpart.

§ 347.34   Payment (redemption).

The issuance and redemption of a retirement savings bond is conditioned on an Auto-IRA custodian certifying compliance with these regulations and with any additional program instructions identified by Fiscal Service that pertain to that bond.
(a) Payment upon maturity. Payment of retirement savings bonds will be made to an Auto-IRA custodian upon the custodian's submission of a request for redemption to Fiscal Service. The custodian shall request the redemption of all retirement savings bonds at their respective maturity. The custodian shall request the full or partial redemption of a bond held on behalf of a participant upon the request of the participant or other authorized person entitled to amounts in the IRA. Retirement savings bond redemptions will be rounded to the nearest one cent.
Payment upon maturity.
Payment of retirement savings bonds will be made to an Auto-IRA custodian upon the custodian's submission of a request for redemption to Fiscal Service. The custodian shall request the redemption of all retirement savings bonds at their respective maturity. The custodian shall request the full or partial redemption of a bond held on behalf of a participant upon the request of the participant or other authorized person entitled to amounts in the IRA. Retirement savings bond redemptions will be rounded to the nearest one cent.
(b) Payment upon call. Final interest on any called bonds will be paid with the principal (amount contributed minus withdrawals taken) at redemption and rounded to the nearest one cent.
Payment upon call.
Final interest on any called bonds will be paid with the principal (amount contributed minus withdrawals taken) at redemption and rounded to the nearest one cent.

§ 347.35   Computation of interest.

Retirement savings bonds under this subpart earn interest at the same annual percentage rate as securities issued to the Government Securities Investment Fund (G Fund) in the Thrift Savings Plan for federal employees. The Secretary calculates the G Fund interest rate pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8438(e)(2). The retirement savings bond interest rate compounds daily at 1/360 of the annual percentage rate. Retirement savings bonds will cease to accrue interest on the date of their maturity or call.

§ 347.36   Maturity.

The maturity date for retirement savings bonds is indeterminate and may be different for each bond issued, but shall not exceed the sum of an original maturity period of 20 years and an extended maturity period of 10 years. A retirement savings bond purchased by the Auto-IRA custodian on behalf of a participant will mature at the earlier of 30 years from the date the bond is first issued to the custodian on behalf of the participant or when its value reaches $15,000.

§ 347.37   Reservation of rights.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service may decide, in his or her sole discretion, to take any of the following actions with respect to the retirement savings bonds offered under this subpart. Such actions are final. Specifically, the Commissioner reserves the right under this subpart:
(a) As a condition of Fiscal Service's issuance of retirement savings bonds to an Auto-IRA custodian under a state Auto-IRA program, to require a state Auto-IRA program to provide information to Fiscal Service concerning the state Auto-IRA program and retirement savings bonds offered under this subpart, including a certification by a senior official to the completeness and accuracy of the information requested;
(b) To refuse to issue retirement savings bonds to an Auto-IRA custodian in any particular case or class of cases;
(c) To suspend or cease offering retirement savings bonds to an Auto-IRA custodian;
(d) To call for redemption of any outstanding retirement savings bond; or
(e) To determine any appropriate remedy under this subpart.

Subpart D—Miscellaneous Provisions for Retirement Savings Bonds

[Source:82 FR 6248, Jan. 19, 2017, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
82 FR 6248, Jan. 19, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

§ 347.40   Waiver of regulations.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service may waive or modify any provision or provisions of the regulations in this part. He or she may do so in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship:
(a) If such action would not be inconsistent with law or equity;
(b) If it does not impair any material existing rights; and
(c) If he or she is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 347.41   Additional requirements; bond of indemnity.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service may require:
(a) Such additional evidence to support a requested action as he or she may consider necessary or advisable; or
(b) A bond of indemnity, with or without surety, in any case in which he or she may consider such a bond necessary for the protection of the interests of the United States.

§ 347.42   Supplements, amendments, or revisions.

The Secretary may at any time, or from time to time, prescribe additional, supplemental, amendatory, or revised rules and regulations governing retirement savings bonds.

PART 348—REGULATIONS GOVERNING DEPOSITARY COMPENSATION SECURITIES

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3121; 5 U.S.C. 301.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3121; 5 U.S.C. 301.
[Source:68 FR 41267, July 11, 2003, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
68 FR 41267, July 11, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

§ 348.0   Offering of securities.

The Secretary of the Treasury (the Secretary) under authority of Title 31, Chapter 31, offers, at par, Depositary Compensation Securities (securities) to financial agents of the Department of the Treasury. The securities are offered to financial agents of the Department of the Treasury designated under federal law (including, but not limited to: 12 U.S.C. 90, 265-266, 1464(k), and 1789a; 31 U.S.C. 3303) which have executed a Depositary, Financial Agency, and Collateral Agreement satisfactory to the Secretary, and are authorized to provide essential banking services to the Department of the Treasury. The securities will be issued in an amount not to exceed, in any case, the amount for which the financial agents are authorized. The securities are non-marketable Treasury securities that will be utilized to compensate financial agents, in whole or in part, for services performed on behalf of the Department of the Treasury. The financial agents will be compensated from the interest earned on the securities. This offering will continue until terminated by the Secretary. The Fiscal Assistant Secretary is authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary upon all matters contained in these regulations.

§ 348.1   Description of securities.

(a) General. The securities will be issued in book-entry form on the books of the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV.
General.
The securities will be issued in book-entry form on the books of the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV.
(b) Terms and rate of interest. The securities will be issued as notes or bonds, depending on their maturity, under such terms and at such rates as determined and announced by the Secretary. The Secretary will set a given rate of interest that will apply to all securities issued while the rate is in effect. The interest will be payable on a monthly basis. The securities will be issued in a minimum of $1,000 each.
Terms and rate of interest.
The securities will be issued as notes or bonds, depending on their maturity, under such terms and at such rates as determined and announced by the Secretary. The Secretary will set a given rate of interest that will apply to all securities issued while the rate is in effect. The interest will be payable on a monthly basis. The securities will be issued in a minimum of $1,000 each.
(c) Nontransferability. The securities are not transferable, but they will be acceptable to secure compensating balances with financial agents (as described in § 348.0) and may not be used for any other purpose.
Nontransferability.
The securities are not transferable, but they will be acceptable to secure compensating balances with financial agents (as described in § 348.0) and may not be used for any other purpose.

§ 348.2   Redemption/call/reinvestment.

(a) Redemption by financial agents. The securities may be redeemed prior to maturity by financial agents only under such terms and conditions as set forth in agreements between the financial agents and the Department of the Treasury, Financial Management Service, Washington, DC.
Redemption by financial agents.
The securities may be redeemed prior to maturity by financial agents only under such terms and conditions as set forth in agreements between the financial agents and the Department of the Treasury, Financial Management Service, Washington, DC.
(b) Call by the Treasury. The securities are subject to call before maturity. The Secretary will announce such call by any means the Secretary deems appropriate.
Call by the Treasury.
The securities are subject to call before maturity. The Secretary will announce such call by any means the Secretary deems appropriate.
(c) Reinvestment at maturity. The securities shall be automatically redeemed at maturity and the principal amount reinvested in new securities having the same description in all material respects as the ones redeemed, except that the Secretary shall have the authority to modify the rate of interest for the re-issued securities. The securities shall be automatically redeemed and re-invested unless the agent certifies in writing, to the Treasury, Financial Management Service, Washington, DC, that it declines automatic reinvestment within seven calendar days prior to maturity date.
Reinvestment at maturity.
The securities shall be automatically redeemed at maturity and the principal amount reinvested in new securities having the same description in all material respects as the ones redeemed, except that the Secretary shall have the authority to modify the rate of interest for the re-issued securities. The securities shall be automatically redeemed and re-invested unless the agent certifies in writing, to the Treasury, Financial Management Service, Washington, DC, that it declines automatic reinvestment within seven calendar days prior to maturity date.

§ 348.3   Reservations.

The Secretary reserves the right to reject any application for the purchase of securities hereunder, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued any such securities in any case if the Secretary deems such action to be in the public interest, and the Secretary's action in any such respect shall be final. The Secretary may also at any time, supplement or amend the terms of these regulations, or of any amendments or supplements thereto.

PART 351—OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES EE

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3105.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3105.
[Source:68 FR 24796, May 8, 2003, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
68 FR 24796, May 8, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 351.0   What does this part cover?

This part is the offering of United States Savings Bonds of Series EE (referred to as Series EE bonds or bonds) for sale to the people of the United States by the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary). Series EE bonds have been offered since 1980. The current offer was effective May 1, 2005, and will continue until terminated by the Secretary.
[[68 FR 24796, May 8, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 17288, Apr. 5, 2005]]

§ 351.1   What regulations govern Series EE savings bonds?

(a) The regulations in 31 CFR part 353 apply to definitive (paper) Series EE savings bonds that have not been converted to book-entry bonds through New Treasury Direct.
(b) The regulations in 31 CFR part 363 apply to:
(1) Book-entry Series EE savings bonds that were originally issued as book-entry bonds in New Treasury Direct; and
(2) Definitive Series EE savings bonds that have been converted to book-entry bonds through New Treasury Direct.
(c) The regulations in 31 CFR part 370 apply to transactions for the purchase of savings bonds issued through the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, but do not apply to transactions purchased through issuing agents generally.
(d) We expressly disclaim any representations or warranties regarding Series EE savings bonds that in any way conflict with these regulations and other applicable law.
[[68 FR 24796, May 8, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005]]

§ 351.2   How do I contact Fiscal Service?

You may contact Fiscal Service by e-mail at savbonds@bpd.treas.gov, or by writing to the following address: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328. Our website address is www.savingsbonds.gov.
savbonds@bpd.treas.gov
, or by writing to the following address: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328. Our website address is
www.savingsbonds.gov.

§ 351.3   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

Accrual date is the first day of any month on which earnings on a Series EE bond accrue. The redemption value of a bond does not change between these accrual dates.
Accrual date
is the first day of any month on which earnings on a Series EE bond accrue. The redemption value of a bond does not change between these accrual dates.
Automated Clearing House (ACH) means a funds transfer system governed by the Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA). NACHA provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participating financial institutions.
Automated Clearing House (ACH)
means a funds transfer system governed by the Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA). NACHA provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participating financial institutions.
Bank account means your account at a United States depository financial institution (whether a bank or other financial institution) to which you have directed that ACH debits and payments be made.
Bank account
means your account at a United States depository financial institution (whether a bank or other financial institution) to which you have directed that ACH debits and payments be made.
Beneficiary refers to the second individual named in the registration of a security held in definitive form registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe.” In the New Treasury Direct system, beneficiary refers to the second individual named in the registration of a security registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In these examples, Joseph Doe is the beneficiary.
Beneficiary
refers to the second individual named in the registration of a security held in definitive form registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe.” In the New Treasury Direct system, beneficiary refers to the second individual named in the registration of a security registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In these examples, Joseph Doe is the beneficiary.
Book-entry bond means a Series EE savings bond maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Book-entry bond
means a Series EE savings bond maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Converted bond means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Converted bond
means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Coowner means either the first or the second individual named in the registration of a definitive Series EE savings bond registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 or Joseph Doe.” In this example, John Doe and Joseph Doe are coowners.
Coowner
means either the first or the second individual named in the registration of a definitive Series EE savings bond registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 or Joseph Doe.” In this example, John Doe and Joseph Doe are coowners.
Definitive bond means a Series EE savings bond issued in paper form.
Definitive bond
means a Series EE savings bond issued in paper form.
Extended maturity period, second extended maturity period, and extended maturity refer to periods after the original maturity dates of the bonds during which owners may retain them and continue to earn interest.
Extended maturity period, second extended maturity period,
and
extended maturity
refer to periods after the original maturity dates of the bonds during which owners may retain them and continue to earn interest.
Face amount refers to the nominal amount of a Series EE savings bond. The face amount of a definitive Series EE bond is imprinted on the front of the bond. The face amount of a book-entry Series EE bond is the amount of the original investment. (See principal amount.)
Face amount
refers to the nominal amount of a Series EE savings bond. The face amount of a definitive Series EE bond is imprinted on the front of the bond. The face amount of a book-entry Series EE bond is the amount of the original investment. (See principal amount.)
Fiduciary means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for another. Fiduciary does not include an attorney-in-fact.
Fiduciary
means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for another. Fiduciary does not include an attorney-in-fact.
Final maturity refers to the date that a bond ceases to earn interest.
Final maturity
refers to the date that a bond ceases to earn interest.
Individual means a natural person. Individual does not mean an organization, representative, or fiduciary.
Individual
means a natural person. Individual does not mean an organization, representative, or fiduciary.
Inscription means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
Inscription
means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
Interest, as used in this part, is the difference between the principal amount and the redemption value of the bond.
Interest,
as used in this part, is the difference between the principal amount and the redemption value of the bond.
Issue date is the first day of the month in which an authorized issuing agent receives payment of the issue price of the bond.
Issue date
is the first day of the month in which an authorized issuing agent receives payment of the issue price of the bond.
Issuing agent means an organization that has been qualified under 31 CFR part 317, and any other entity that is otherwise authorized to issue bonds.
Issuing agent
means an organization that has been qualified under 31 CFR part 317, and any other entity that is otherwise authorized to issue bonds.
New Treasury Direct system (New Treasury Direct) is an online account system in which you may hold and conduct transactions in eligible book-entry Treasury securities.
New Treasury Direct system (New Treasury Direct)
is an online account system in which you may hold and conduct transactions in eligible book-entry Treasury securities.
Original maturity period or original maturity refers to the initial maturity period of a bond prior to any extensions of maturity; this period varies from 8 to 20 years, depending on the issue date of the bond.
Original maturity period
or
original maturity
refers to the initial maturity period of a bond prior to any extensions of maturity; this period varies from 8 to 20 years, depending on the issue date of the bond.
Owner is either a single owner, the first individual named in the registration of a bond held in the owner with beneficiary form of registration, or the primary owner of a book-entry bond held in the primary owner with secondary owner form of registration.
Owner
is either a single owner, the first individual named in the registration of a bond held in the owner with beneficiary form of registration, or the primary owner of a book-entry bond held in the primary owner with secondary owner form of registration.
Par means the face amount of a Series EE savings bond.
Par
means the face amount of a Series EE savings bond.
Paying agent means a financial institution that has been qualified under 31 CFR part 321.
Paying agent
means a financial institution that has been qualified under 31 CFR part 321.
Person means an entity including an individual, trust, estate, corporation, government entity, association, partnership, and any other similar organization. Person does not mean a Federal Reserve Bank.
Person
means an entity including an individual, trust, estate, corporation, government entity, association, partnership, and any other similar organization. Person does not mean a Federal Reserve Bank.
Primary owner means the first individual named in the registration of a book-entry bond held in New Treasury Direct registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, John Doe is the primary owner.
Primary owner
means the first individual named in the registration of a book-entry bond held in New Treasury Direct registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, John Doe is the primary owner.
Principal amount means the amount of the original investment. Principal amount does not include any interest earned.
Principal amount
means the amount of the original investment. Principal amount does not include any interest earned.
Redemption of a book-entry Series EE savings bond refers to payment of principal and accrued interest on the bond at final maturity, or, at the option of the owner, prior to final maturity. The owner of a book-entry savings bond held in New Treasury Direct may redeem all principal and interest or a portion of the principal and the proportionate amount of interest.
Redemption of a book-entry Series EE savings bond
refers to payment of principal and accrued interest on the bond at final maturity, or, at the option of the owner, prior to final maturity. The owner of a book-entry savings bond held in New Treasury Direct may redeem all principal and interest or a portion of the principal and the proportionate amount of interest.
Redemption of a definitive Series EE savings bond refers to the payment of principal and accrued interest when the owner presents the bond for payment.
Redemption of a definitive Series EE savings bond
refers to the payment of principal and accrued interest when the owner presents the bond for payment.
Redemption value means principal plus accrued interest of a Series EE savings bond, as of the date of potential or actual redemption. In the case of a book-entry Series EE savings bond, it also refers to a portion of the principal amount plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest of a bond, as of the date of potential or actual redemption.
Redemption value
means principal plus accrued interest of a Series EE savings bond, as of the date of potential or actual redemption. In the case of a book-entry Series EE savings bond, it also refers to a portion of the principal amount plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest of a bond, as of the date of potential or actual redemption.
Registration means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
Registration
means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
Secondary owner means the second individual named in the registration of a book-entry bond held in New Treasury Direct registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, Joseph Doe is the secondary owner.
Secondary owner
means the second individual named in the registration of a book-entry bond held in New Treasury Direct registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, Joseph Doe is the secondary owner.
Semiannual rate periods or semiannual earnings periods are the six-month periods beginning on the issue date and on each semiannual anniversary of the issue date to final maturity.
Semiannual rate periods
or
semiannual earnings periods
are the six-month periods beginning on the issue date and on each semiannual anniversary of the issue date to final maturity.
Series EE savings bond is an accrual-type savings bond, offered at a discount, either in definitive (paper) form or in book-entry form, that pays interest on the principal based on rates determined by Treasury.
Series EE savings bond
is an accrual-type savings bond, offered at a discount, either in definitive (paper) form or in book-entry form, that pays interest on the principal based on rates determined by Treasury.
Single owner means the person named in the registration of a savings bond without a coowner, beneficiary or secondary owner.
Single owner
means the person named in the registration of a savings bond without a coowner, beneficiary or secondary owner.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN) means the identifying number required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service; for example, an individual's social security account number (SSN) or an employer identification number (EIN). A SSN is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789. An EIN is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN)
means the identifying number required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service; for example, an individual's social security account number (SSN) or an employer identification number (EIN). A SSN is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789. An EIN is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers.
We, us, or our refers to the agency, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term extends to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent we designate to act on behalf of the United States.
We, us,
or
our
refers to the agency, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term extends to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent we designate to act on behalf of the United States.
You or your refers to an owner of a Series EE savings bond.
You
or
your
refers to an owner of a Series EE savings bond.
[[68 FR 24796, May 8, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005; 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006]]

§ 351.4   In what form are Series EE savings bonds issued?

Series EE savings bonds are issued in book-entry form. Effective January 1, 2012, Treasury discontinued the issuance of definitive Series EE savings bonds.
[[76 FR 66855, Oct. 28, 2011]]

Subpart B—Maturities, Redemption Values, and Investment Yields of Series EE Savings Bonds


General Provisions


§ 351.5   What is the maturity period of a Series EE savings bond?

Series EE savings bonds have a total maturity period of 30 years from the issue date, consisting of an original maturity period and one or two periods of extended maturity, which vary depending on the issue date of the bond. The interest on an outstanding bond ceases to accrue 30 years after its issue date.

§ 351.6   When may I redeem my Series EE savings bond?

(a) Bonds with issue dates on or before January 1, 2003. You may redeem your Series EE savings bond at any time beginning six months after its issue date.
Bonds with issue dates on or before January 1, 2003.
You may redeem your Series EE savings bond at any time beginning six months after its issue date.
(b) Bonds with issue dates on or after February 1, 2003. You may redeem your Series EE savings bond at any time beginning twelve months after its issue date.
Bonds with issue dates on or after February 1, 2003.
You may redeem your Series EE savings bond at any time beginning twelve months after its issue date.

§ 351.7   May Series EE savings bonds be called for redemption prior to final maturity?

The Secretary of the Treasury may not call Series EE bonds for redemption prior to final maturity.

§ 351.8   When is interest payable on Series EE savings bonds?

Interest on a bond accrues and becomes part of the redemption value. Interest earnings are payable upon redemption.

§ 351.9   When will I receive the redemption value of my Series EE savings bonds?

(a) You will be paid the redemption value of your definitive bond when you surrender the bond for payment as provided in these regulations and in 31 CFR part 353.
(b) You will be paid the redemption value of your book-entry bond when it reaches final maturity, if you have not redeemed the bond previously.

§ 351.10   What do I need to know about market yields, or market bid yields, to understand redemption value calculations in this subpart?

We use market yields, or market bid yields, derived from Treasury bills, notes, and bonds, to create a yield curve based on the most actively traded Treasury securities. This curve relates the yield on a security to its time to maturity. Yields at particular points on the curve are referred to as “constant maturity yields” and are determined by the Treasury from this daily yield curve. Six-month and 5-year Treasury securities rates are derived from these yield curves.

§ 351.11   What do I need to know about the short-term savings bond rate, to understand redemption value calculations in this subpart?

We determine this rate by compiling 6-month Treasury securities rates as of the close of business for each day of the previous three months and calculating the monthly average for each month, rounding each monthly average to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. We then determine the short-term savings bond rate by taking 85 percent of the three-month average and rounding the result to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. For bonds entitled to interest accruals at the short-term savings bond rate, that rate applies to the bond's first full semiannual interest accrual period following each announcement of the rate.

§ 351.12   What do I need to know about the long-term savings bond rate, to understand redemption value calculations in this subpart?

We determine this rate by compiling 5-year Treasury securities rates as of the close of business for each day of the previous six months and calculating the monthly average for each month, rounding each monthly average to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. We then determine the long-term savings bond rate by taking 85 percent of the 6-month average and rounding the result to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. For bonds entitled to interest accruals at the long-term savings bond rate, that rate applies to the bond's first full semiannual interest accrual period following each announcement of the rate.

§ 351.13   What do I need to know about the savings bond rate to understand redemption value calculations in this subpart?

We determine the savings bond rate by compiling 5-year Treasury securities yields as of the close of business for each day of the previous six months and calculating the monthly average to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. We then determine the savings bonds rate by taking 90 percent of the 6-month average and rounding the result to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent.

§ 351.14   When are rate announcements that apply to Series EE savings bonds announced?

(a) The Secretary will furnish rates that apply to Series EE savings bonds in announcements published each May 1 and November 1.
(b) If the regularly scheduled date for the announcement is a day when we are not open for business, then the Secretary will make the announcement on the next business day. However, the effective date of the rate remains the first day of the month of the announcement.
(c) The Secretary may announce rates at any other time.

§ 351.15   Is the determination of the Secretary on rates and values final?

The Secretary's determination of rates of return and savings bond redemption values is final and conclusive.

§ 351.16   What do I need to know about the base denomination for redemption value calculations?

We base all calculations of interest on a unit with a principal amount of $12.50. We use this unit value to determine the value of bonds in higher denominations. The effect of rounding off the value of the $12.50 unit increases at higher denominations. This can work to your slight advantage or disadvantage, depending on whether the value is rounded up or down.
Example.
The following hypothetical example illustrates the calculation: A rate of 3.25% will result in a newly purchased $12.50 unit increasing in value after six months to $12.70, when rounded to the nearest cent. Therefore, a $5,000 definitive Series EE bond (with a principal amount of $2,500) will be worth $2,540 after six months ([$2,500 divided by $12.50] × $12.70 = $2,540.) In contrast, if applied directly to a $2,500 principal amount, the rate would render a value of $2,540.63 after six months, a difference of 63 cents. (This example does not account for any interest penalty that might apply if you redeem a bond less than five years after its issue date.)

§§ 351.17-351.18   [Reserved]


Series EE Savings Bonds with Issue Dates Prior to May 1, 1995


§ 351.19   What are maturity periods of Series EE savings bonds with issue dates prior to May 1, 1995?

Bonds with issue dates from January 1, 1980, through May 1, 1995 have an original maturity period and two extended maturity periods, as shown by the following table:
Issue dates—1st day of
Original term
(in years)
First extended term
(in years)
Second extended term
(in years)
Final maturity dates
Jan. 1980-Oct. 1980
11
10
9
Jan. 2010-Oct. 2010.
Nov. 1980-Apr. 1981
9
10
11
Nov. 2010-Apr. 2011.
May 1981-Oct. 1982
8
10
12
May 2011-Oct. 2012.
Nov. 1982-Oct. 1986
10
10
10
Nov. 2012-Oct. 2016.
Nov. 1986-Feb. 1993
12
10
8
Nov. 2016-Feb. 2023.
Mar. 1993-Apr. 1995
18
10
2
Mar. 2023-Apr. 2025.

§ 351.20   What is the investment yield (interest) during the original maturity period of Series EE savings bonds with issue dates from January 1, 1980, through April 1, 1995?

The redemption value of a bond on a given interest accrual date during original maturity will be the higher of the value produced using the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield or the value produced using the appropriate market-based variable investment yield.
(a) Guaranteed minimum investment yield—(1) Bonds bearing issue dates prior to November 1, 1982. You may obtain the guaranteed minimum investment yields on bonds bearing issue dates prior to November 1, 1982, by downloading from our website at www.savingsbonds.gov, contacting us by email at savbonds@bpd.treas.gov, or by writing us at the following address: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328.
Guaranteed minimum investment yield
—(1)
Bonds bearing issue dates prior to November 1, 1982.
You may obtain the guaranteed minimum investment yields on bonds bearing issue dates prior to November 1, 1982, by downloading from our website at
www.savingsbonds.gov,
contacting us by email at
savbonds@bpd.treas.gov,
or by writing us at the following address: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328.
(2) Bonds bearing issue dates of November 1, 1982, through April 1, 1995—(i) Prior to 5 years from issue date. You may download the guaranteed minimum investment yields prior to 5 years from issue date at our website at www.savingsbonds.gov, by contacting us by email at savbonds@bpd.treas.gov, or writing to the following address: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328.
Bonds bearing issue dates of November 1, 1982, through April 1, 1995
—(i)
Prior to 5 years from issue date.
You may download the guaranteed minimum investment yields prior to 5 years from issue date at our website at
www.savingsbonds.gov,
by contacting us by email at
savbonds@bpd.treas.gov,
or writing to the following address: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328.
(ii) On or after 5 years from issue date. The guaranteed minimum investment yield of a bond from its issue date to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after 5 years from issue up to original maturity will be as follows, compounded semiannually:
On or after 5 years from issue date.
The guaranteed minimum investment yield of a bond from its issue date to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after 5 years from issue up to original maturity will be as follows, compounded semiannually:
Issue dates of bonds
Percent
Nov. 1, 1982-October 1, 1986
7.5
Nov. 1, 1986-Feb. 1, 1993
6
Mar. 1, 1993-Apr. 1, 1995
4
(b) Market-based variable investment yield. If a bond is held for a period of 5 years after its first semiannual interest accrual period, occurring on or after November 1, 1982, or its issue date, whichever is later, its market-based variable investment yield for such period, and to each successive semiannual interest accrual date up to its original maturity, will be determined as follows:
Market-based variable investment yield.
If a bond is held for a period of 5 years after its first semiannual interest accrual period, occurring on or after November 1, 1982, or its issue date, whichever is later, its market-based variable investment yield for such period, and to each successive semiannual interest accrual date up to its original maturity, will be determined as follows:
(1) For each 6-month period, starting with the period beginning on May 1, 1982, we will determine the average market yield on outstanding marketable Treasury securities with a remaining term to maturity of approximately 5 years during such period.
(2) For bonds bearing an issue date prior to May 1, 1989, the market-based variable investment yield from its first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982, or its issue date, whichever is later, to its first semiannual interest accrual date 5 years thereafter will be 85 percent, rounded to the nearest one-fourth of 1 percent, of the arithmetic average of the market yield averages for the ten 6-month periods starting with the 6-month period that most recently ended before such issue date, whichever is later.
(3) For bonds bearing issue dates of May 1, 1989, through April 1, 1995, the market-based variable investment yield from the issue date to the semiannual interest accrual date 5 years thereafter will be 85 percent, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of 1 percent, of the arithmetic average of the market yield averages for the ten 6-month periods starting with the 6-month period that most recently ended before such issue date.
(4) In determining the market-based variable investment yield for a bond from its first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982, or its issue date, whichever is later, to each successive semiannual interest accrual date occurring after 5 years from issue up to original maturity, the average market yield for each additional 6-month period will be included in the computation.

§ 351.21   How are redemption values determined during any extended maturity period of Series EE savings bonds with issue dates prior to May 1, 1995?

The redemption value of a bond on a given interest accrual date during an extended maturity period or periods will be the higher of the values produced using either the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield or the appropriate market-based variable investment yield. The calculation of these yields and the resulting redemption values are described below:
(a) Guaranteed minimum investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period. A bond may be subject to one guaranteed minimum investment yield during its original maturity period and to another such yield during each of its extended maturity periods.
Guaranteed minimum investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period.
A bond may be subject to one guaranteed minimum investment yield during its original maturity period and to another such yield during each of its extended maturity periods.
(1) Bonds entering an extended maturity period from May 1, 1989, through February 1, 1993. Bonds that entered an extended maturity period from May 1, 1989, through February 1, 1993, had a guaranteed minimum investment yield of 6 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, during that extended maturity period.
Bonds entering an extended maturity period from May 1, 1989, through February 1, 1993.
Bonds that entered an extended maturity period from May 1, 1989, through February 1, 1993, had a guaranteed minimum investment yield of 6 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, during that extended maturity period.
(2) Bonds entering an extended maturity period on or after March 1, 1993. Bonds that entered or enter an extended maturity period on or after March 1, 1993, have a guaranteed minimum investment yield of 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, during that extended maturity period, or the guaranteed minimum investment yield in effect at the beginning of that period.
Bonds entering an extended maturity period on or after March 1, 1993.
Bonds that entered or enter an extended maturity period on or after March 1, 1993, have a guaranteed minimum investment yield of 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually, during that extended maturity period, or the guaranteed minimum investment yield in effect at the beginning of that period.
(3) Determination of values for a bond during extended maturity periods. In order to determine values for a bond during its first extended maturity period, we determine the value of the bond at the end of its original maturity period using the guaranteed minimum investment yield applicable to that period. This value is then used as the base upon which interest accrues during the first extended maturity period at the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield for that period. We use the value thus attained at first extended maturity as the base upon which interest accrues during the second extended maturity period at the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield for that period. We then compare the resulting semiannual values with the corresponding values determined using only the applicable market-based variable investment yields.
Determination of values for a bond during extended maturity periods.
In order to determine values for a bond during its first extended maturity period, we determine the value of the bond at the end of its original maturity period using the guaranteed minimum investment yield applicable to that period. This value is then used as the base upon which interest accrues during the first extended maturity period at the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield for that period. We use the value thus attained at first extended maturity as the base upon which interest accrues during the second extended maturity period at the applicable guaranteed minimum investment yield for that period. We then compare the resulting semiannual values with the corresponding values determined using only the applicable market-based variable investment yields.
(b) Market-based variable investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period. For a bond beginning an extended maturity period, the market-based variable investment yield from its first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982, or its issue date, whichever is later, to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1989, will be 85 percent, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent, of the arithmetic average of the market yield averages for the appropriate number of 6-month periods involved, beginning with the period from May 1, 1982, or the 6-month period that most recently ended before the issue date, whichever period occurs later. We use the value of a bond on its first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982, or its issue date, whichever is later, as the base upon which interest accrues during the extended maturity period at the applicable market-based variable investment yield. As described above, the bond will receive the higher of the two values: One value produced using the applicable market-based variable investment yield; and, the other value produced using the guaranteed minimum investment yield.
Market-based variable investment yield and resulting values during an extended maturity period.
For a bond beginning an extended maturity period, the market-based variable investment yield from its first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982, or its issue date, whichever is later, to each semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1989, will be 85 percent, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent, of the arithmetic average of the market yield averages for the appropriate number of 6-month periods involved, beginning with the period from May 1, 1982, or the 6-month period that most recently ended before the issue date, whichever period occurs later. We use the value of a bond on its first semiannual interest accrual date occurring on or after November 1, 1982, or its issue date, whichever is later, as the base upon which interest accrues during the extended maturity period at the applicable market-based variable investment yield. As described above, the bond will receive the higher of the two values: One value produced using the applicable market-based variable investment yield; and, the other value produced using the guaranteed minimum investment yield.

§ 351.22   When does the redemption value increase for bonds issued prior to May 1, 1995?

(a) Bonds with issue dates from January 1, 1980, through October 1, 1980. For bonds with issue dates from January 1, 1980, through October 1, 1980, the redemption value increases on the first day of each month from the third through the thirtieth month after issue, and thereafter on the first day of each successive 6-month period.
Bonds with issue dates from January 1, 1980, through October 1, 1980.
For bonds with issue dates from January 1, 1980, through October 1, 1980, the redemption value increases on the first day of each month from the third through the thirtieth month after issue, and thereafter on the first day of each successive 6-month period.
(b) Bonds with issue dates from November 1, 1980, through October 1, 1986. For bonds with issue dates from November 1, 1980, through October 1, 1986, the redemption value increases on the first day of each month from the third through the eighteenth month after issue, and thereafter on the first day of each successive 6-month period.
Bonds with issue dates from November 1, 1980, through October 1, 1986.
For bonds with issue dates from November 1, 1980, through October 1, 1986, the redemption value increases on the first day of each month from the third through the eighteenth month after issue, and thereafter on the first day of each successive 6-month period.
(c) Bonds with issue dates from November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993. For bonds with issue dates from November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993, the redemption values increase on the first day of each month from the third through the thirtieth month after issue, and thereafter on the first day of each successive 6-month period.
Bonds with issue dates from November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993.
For bonds with issue dates from November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993, the redemption values increase on the first day of each month from the third through the thirtieth month after issue, and thereafter on the first day of each successive 6-month period.
(d) Bonds with issue dates of March 1, 1993, through April 1, 1995. For bonds with issue dates of March 1, 1993, through April 1, 1995, the redemption values increase on the first day of each month from the third through the sixtieth month after issue, and thereafter either on the first day of each month or on the first day of each successive 6-month period, whichever accrual schedule ensures that the actual yield from issue date to redemption date is in no case less than 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually.
Bonds with issue dates of March 1, 1993, through April 1, 1995.
For bonds with issue dates of March 1, 1993, through April 1, 1995, the redemption values increase on the first day of each month from the third through the sixtieth month after issue, and thereafter either on the first day of each month or on the first day of each successive 6-month period, whichever accrual schedule ensures that the actual yield from issue date to redemption date is in no case less than 4 percent per annum, compounded semiannually.

§ 351.23   Are tables of redemption values available for bonds issued prior to May 1, 1995?

You may obtain the appropriate yields and tables by downloading from our website at www.savingsbonds.gov, contacting us by email at savbonds@bpd.treas.gov, or by writing us at the following address: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328.
www.savingsbonds.gov,
contacting us by email at
savbonds@bpd.treas.gov,
or by writing us at the following address: Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328.

Series EE Savings Bonds With Issue Dates From May 1, 1995, Through April 1, 1997


§ 351.24   What are the maturity periods of bonds with issue dates from May 1, 1995, through April 1, 1997?

(a) Original maturity. Bonds reach original maturity at 17 years after issue date.
Original maturity.
Bonds reach original maturity at 17 years after issue date.
(b) Final maturity. Series EE savings bonds have an extended maturity period of 13 years, and reach final maturity at 30 years after the issue date. Bonds cease to earn interest at final maturity.
Final maturity.
Series EE savings bonds have an extended maturity period of 13 years, and reach final maturity at 30 years after the issue date. Bonds cease to earn interest at final maturity.

§ 351.25   What were the interest rates and redemption values for bonds with issue dates from May 1, 1995, through April 1, 1997, during semiannual rate periods in the first 5 years after issue date?

(a) Interest rates. The interest rate for a Series EE bond bearing an issue date of May 1, 1995, through April 1, 1997, for semiannual earning periods during the first 5 years from issue date, was the short-term savings bond rate (see § 351.11 for a description of the short-term savings bond rate.)
Interest rates.
The interest rate for a Series EE bond bearing an issue date of May 1, 1995, through April 1, 1997, for semiannual earning periods during the first 5 years from issue date, was the short-term savings bond rate (see § 351.11 for a description of the short-term savings bond rate.)
(b) Redemption values. Redemption values for semiannual accrual dates occurring on or before 5 years from issue date are calculated in accordance with § 351.28.
Redemption values.
Redemption values for semiannual accrual dates occurring on or before 5 years from issue date are calculated in accordance with § 351.28.

§ 351.26   What are the interest rates and redemption values for bonds with issue dates from May 1, 1995 through April 1, 1997, during semiannual rate periods that begin 5 years or more after issue date?

(a) Interest rates. The interest rate for a Series EE bond bearing an issue date of May 1, 1995, through April 1, 1997, for semiannual earning periods beginning 5 years from issue date through original maturity, is the long-term savings bond rate as defined in § 351.12.
Interest rates.
The interest rate for a Series EE bond bearing an issue date of May 1, 1995, through April 1, 1997, for semiannual earning periods beginning 5 years from issue date through original maturity, is the long-term savings bond rate as defined in § 351.12.
(b) Redemption values. We calculate redemption values for semiannual accrual dates occurring after 5 years from issue date, through original maturity, in accordance with § 351.28, except that the redemption value at the date of original maturity shall not be less than the denomination (face amount or face value).
Redemption values.
We calculate redemption values for semiannual accrual dates occurring after 5 years from issue date, through original maturity, in accordance with § 351.28, except that the redemption value at the date of original maturity shall not be less than the denomination (face amount or face value).

§ 351.27   What are the interest rates and redemption values for bonds with issue dates from May 1, 1995, through April 1, 1997, during an extended maturity period?

During an extended maturity period the bond will be subject to the terms and conditions in effect when it is issued, and will continue to earn interest as described in paragraph § 351.26, unless the terms and conditions applicable to an extended maturity period are expressly amended prior to the beginning of such period.

§ 351.28   How are redemption values calculated for bonds with issue dates from May 1, 1995, through April 1, 1997?

We determine the redemption value of a bond on the accrual date immediately following each semiannual earning period as follows:
(a) We convert the applicable long-term or short-term savings bond rate for the semiannual earning period to decimal form by dividing by 100, and adjust it to a semiannual rate by dividing by 2.
(b) Using redemption values for the base denomination, as defined in § 351.16, we then multiply this rate by the redemption value of the bond at the beginning of the semiannual earning period.
(c) We add the resulting interest amount, rounded to the nearest cent, to the redemption value of the bond at the beginning of the earning period to produce the redemption value at the next semiannual accrual date. The redemption value of a bond remains constant between accrual dates.

Series EE Savings Bonds With Issue Dates of May 1, 1997, Through April 1, 2005


§ 351.29   What are the maturity periods of bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1997, through April 1, 2005?

(a) Original maturity—(1) Bonds with issue dates from May 1, 1997, to May 1, 2003. Bonds reach original maturity at 17 years after issue date.
Original maturity
—(1)
Bonds with issue dates from May 1, 1997, to May 1, 2003.
Bonds reach original maturity at 17 years after issue date.
(2) Bonds with issue dates of June 1, 2003, through April 1, 2005. Bonds reach original maturity at 20 years after issue date.
Bonds with issue dates of June 1, 2003, through April 1, 2005.
Bonds reach original maturity at 20 years after issue date.
(b) Final maturity. Bonds reach final maturity at 30 years after the issue date. Bonds cease to earn interest at final maturity.
Final maturity.
Bonds reach final maturity at 30 years after the issue date. Bonds cease to earn interest at final maturity.
[[68 FR 24796, May 8, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 17288, Apr. 5, 2005]]

§ 351.30   What are interest rates and monthly accruals for Series EE bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1997, through April 1, 2005, during the original maturity period?

Savings bond rates (defined in § 351.13) apply to earnings during the first semiannual rate period beginning on or after the effective date of the rate. Interest is credited on the first day of each month and compounded semiannually. Interest accrues beginning with the fourth month from the issue date. For example, a bond issued in January has interest first credited on May 1, which represents one month of interest because of the 3-month interest penalty. The following table shows, for any given month of issue with rates announced each May and November, the months making up the semiannual rate period during which interest is earned at the announced rate (disregarding the penalty for bonds redeemed prior to 5 years after the issue date) and the months in which the bonds increase in value. This rate is an annual rate compounded semiannually.
If issue month is—
And rate announcement/effective date is—
Then, semiannual rate periods in which interest is earned include months of—
And bonds increase in value on 1st day of months of—
Jan. or Jul
May 1
Jul. through Dec
Aug. through Jan.
Feb. or Aug
May 1
Aug. through Jan
Sep. through Feb.
Mar. or Sep
May 1
Sep. through Feb
Oct. through Mar.
Apr. or Oct
May 1
Oct. through Mar
Nov. through Apr.
May or Nov
May 1
May through Oct
Jun. through Nov.
Jun. or Dec
May 1
Jun. through Nov
Jul. through Dec.
Jan. or Jul
Nov. 1
Jan. through Jun
Feb. through Jul.
Feb. or Aug
Nov. 1
Feb. through Jul
Mar. through Aug.
Mar. or Sep
Nov. 1
Mar. through Aug
Apr. through Sep.
Apr. or Oct
Nov. 1
Apr. through Sep
May through Oct.
May or Nov
Nov. 1
Nov. through Apr
Dec. through May.
Jun. or Dec
Nov. 1
Dec. through May
Jan. through Jun.

§ 351.31   What is the interest penalty for Series EE bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1997, through April 1, 2005, that are redeemed less than 5 years after the issue date?

If you redeem a Series EE savings bond with an issue date of May 1, 1997, through April 1, 2005, less than five years following the issue date, we reduce the overall earning period from the issue date by three months. For example, if you redeem a bond issued January 1, 1998, 9 months later on October 1, 1998, we will determine the redemption value by applying the redemption value calculation formula described in § 351.32 and the savings bonds rate for that bond at 6 months after the issue date on July 1, 1998. The redemption value of a bond subject to the 3-month interest penalty shall not be reduced below the issue price. This penalty does not apply to bonds redeemed 5 years or more after the issue date.
[[68 FR 24796, May 8, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 17288, Apr. 5, 2005]]

§ 351.32   How are redemption values calculated for Series EE bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1997, through April 1, 2005?

(a) Formula for redemption value. We determine the redemption value of a bond for the accrual date (the first day of each month beginning with the fourth month from the issue date) in accordance with this section and the following formula:
Formula for redemption value.
We determine the redemption value of a bond for the accrual date (the first day of each month beginning with the fourth month from the issue date) in accordance with this section and the following formula:
FV = PV × {[1 + (i ÷ 2)]
(m/6)
}
where
FV (future value) = redemption value on redemption date rounded to the nearest cent.
PV (present value) = redemption value at the beginning of the semiannual rate period
i = savings bonds rate converted to decimal form by dividing by 100.
m = number of full calendar months outstanding during the semiannual rate period.
1
1 The following hypothetical example illustrates how this formula is applied:
1
The following hypothetical example illustrates how this formula is applied:
Example, assume a hypothetical savings bonds rate of 5.00% effective May 1, 2002, for a bond denominated at $25, with an issue date of September 1, 1997 and a redemption value of $16.00 as of September 1, 2002. The February 1, 2003, redemption value is calculated as follows: Bonds issue dated in September have semiannual rate periods beginning each March 1 and September 1. The first semiannual rate period to begin on or after the effective date of the May 1, 2002, rate would be the period beginning September 1, 2002. PV, the present value, would be the value of the bond at the beginning of the semiannual rate period, on September 1, 2002. The savings bonds rate of 5.00% converted to a decimal would be 0.05. The number of months, m, is 5 since 5 full calendar months (September through January) have lapsed since the beginning of the rate period. FV is then the result of the formula:
FV = $16.00 × {[1 + (0.05 ÷ 2)] (5/6)} = $16.33 after rounding to the nearest cent.
(5/6)
} = $16.33 after rounding to the nearest cent.
Using the example, the FV of a savings bond with a $50 or larger denomination can be determined by applying the appropriate multiple, for example: $16.33 × ($50.00/$25.00) for a bond with a $50.00 face amount; or $16.33 × ($100.00/$25.00) for a bond with a $100.00 face amount.
(b) Value of bonds at original maturity—(1) Definitive bond. At original maturity, the redemption value of a definitive bond shall not be less than the face amount/denomination of the bond.
Value of bonds at original maturity
—(1)
Definitive bond.
At original maturity, the redemption value of a definitive bond shall not be less than the face amount/denomination of the bond.
(2) Book-entry bond. At original maturity, the redemption value of a book-entry bond shall not be less than double the purchase price of the bond.
Book-entry bond.
At original maturity, the redemption value of a book-entry bond shall not be less than double the purchase price of the bond.

§ 351.33   What are interest rates and redemption values for Series EE bonds issued May 1, 1997, through April 1, 2005, during an extended maturity period?

During an extended maturity period the bond will be subject to the terms and conditions in effect when it is issued and will continue to earn interest as described in § 351.30, unless the terms and conditions applicable to an extended maturity period are expressly amended prior to the beginning of such period.

Series EE Savings Bonds With Issue Dates of May 1, 2005, or Thereafter


§ 351.34   What are the maturity periods of Series EE bonds with issue dates of May 1, 2005, or thereafter?

(a) Original maturity. Bonds reach original maturity at 20 years after the issue date.
Original maturity.
Bonds reach original maturity at 20 years after the issue date.
(b) Final maturity. Bonds reach final maturity at 30 years after the issue date. Bonds cease to earn interest at final maturity.
Final maturity.
Bonds reach final maturity at 30 years after the issue date. Bonds cease to earn interest at final maturity.
[[70 FR 17288, Apr. 9, 2005]]

§ 351.35   What do I need to know about interest rates, penalties, and redemption values for Series EE bonds with issue dates of May 1, 2005, or thereafter?

(a) Fixed rate or fixed rate of interest. Fixed rate or fixed rate of interest means the rate of interest for a Series EE savings bond with an issue date of May 1, 2005, or thereafter, established by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.
Fixed rate or fixed rate of interest.
Fixed rate or fixed rate of interest means the rate of interest for a Series EE savings bond with an issue date of May 1, 2005, or thereafter, established by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee.
(b) Determination of fixed rate of interest. (1) The Secretary or the Secretary's designee determines the fixed rate of interest, which is established for the life of the bond, including the extended maturity period, unless, prior to the beginning of such maturity period, the Secretary either announces a different fixed rate applicable to the extended maturity period, or we expressly amend the terms and conditions applicable to the extended maturity period.
Determination of fixed rate of interest.
(1) The Secretary or the Secretary's designee determines the fixed rate of interest, which is established for the life of the bond, including the extended maturity period, unless, prior to the beginning of such maturity period, the Secretary either announces a different fixed rate applicable to the extended maturity period, or we expressly amend the terms and conditions applicable to the extended maturity period.
(2) The Secretary's determination of rates of interest and savings bond redemption values is final and conclusive.
(c) Announcement of fixed rate. (1) The Secretary or the Secretary's designee will furnish a fixed rate of interest in announcements published each May 1 and November 1. The effective date of the rates will be the first day of the month of the announcement.
Announcement of fixed rate.
(1) The Secretary or the Secretary's designee will furnish a fixed rate of interest in announcements published each May 1 and November 1. The effective date of the rates will be the first day of the month of the announcement.
(2) If the regularly scheduled date for the announcement is a day when the Treasury is not open for business, then the Secretary will make the announcement on the next business day; however, the effective date of the rates remains the first day of the month of the announcement.
(3) The Secretary may announce rates at any other time.
(4) The most recently announced fixed rate applies only to bonds purchased during the six months following the announcement, or for any other period of time announced by the Secretary.
(d) Monthly accruals. Interest accrues on the first day of each month; that is, we add the interest earned on a bond during any given month to its value at the beginning of the following month. The accrued interest compounds semiannually.
Monthly accruals.
Interest accrues on the first day of each month; that is, we add the interest earned on a bond during any given month to its value at the beginning of the following month. The accrued interest compounds semiannually.
(e) Interest penalty for Series EE bonds redeemed less than 5 years after issue date. If you redeem a bond with an issue date of May 1, 2005, or thereafter, less than five years following the issue date, we reduce the overall earning period from the issue date by three months. However, the redemption value of a bond subject to the 3-month interest penalty shall not be reduced below the issue price. This penalty does not apply to bonds redeemed 5 years or more after the issue date.
Interest penalty for Series EE bonds redeemed less than 5 years after issue date.
If you redeem a bond with an issue date of May 1, 2005, or thereafter, less than five years following the issue date, we reduce the overall earning period from the issue date by three months. However, the redemption value of a bond subject to the 3-month interest penalty shall not be reduced below the issue price. This penalty does not apply to bonds redeemed 5 years or more after the issue date.
(f) Redemption value of Series EE bonds at original maturity—(1) Definitive bond. At original maturity, the redemption value of a definitive bond shall not be less than the face amount/denomination of the bond.
Redemption value of Series EE bonds at original maturity
—(1)
Definitive bond.
At original maturity, the redemption value of a definitive bond shall not be less than the face amount/denomination of the bond.
(2) Book-entry bond. At original maturity, the redemption value of a book-entry bond shall not be less than double the purchase price of the bond.
Book-entry bond.
At original maturity, the redemption value of a book-entry bond shall not be less than double the purchase price of the bond.
[[70 FR 17289, Apr. 9, 2005]]

§§ 351.36-351.39   [Reserved]


Subpart C—Definitive Series EE Savings Bonds


§ 351.40   What were the denominations and prices of definitive Series EE savings bonds?

Prior to January 1, 2012, we issued definitive Series EE savings bonds in denominations of $50, $75, $100, $200, $500, $1000, $5000, and $10,000. The purchase price was one-half the amount of the denomination.
[[76 FR 66855, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 351.41   When are definitive Series EE savings bonds validly issued?

A definitive bond is validly issued when it is registered as provided in 31 CFR part 353, and when it bears an issue date and the validation indicia of an authorized issuing agent.

§ 351.42   What is the issue date of a definitive series EE savings bond?

The issue date of a definitive bond is the first day of the month in which an authorized issuing agent received payment of the issue price.
[[76 FR 66855, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 351.43   Are taxpayer identification numbers (TINs) required for the registration of a definitive Series EE savings bond?

The registration of a definitive Series EE savings bond must include the TIN of the owner or first-named coowner. The TIN of the second-named coowner or beneficiary is not required but its inclusion is desirable. If the bond was purchased as a gift or award and the owner's TIN is not known, the TIN of the purchaser must be included in the registration of the bond.
[[71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 66855, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§§ 351.44-351.45   [Reserved]


§ 351.46   May I purchase definitive Series EE savings bonds over-the-counter?

Effective January 1, 2012, Treasury discontinued the over-the-counter sale of definitive Series EE savings bonds.
[[76 FR 66855, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 351.47   May I purchase definitive Series EE savings bonds through a payroll savings plan?

Treasury discontinued the issuance of definitive Series EE savings bonds through a payroll savings plan:
(a) Effective October 1, 2010, for United States government employees, and
(b) Effective January 1, 2011, for all other employees.
[[75 FR 52460, Aug. 26, 2010]]

§ 351.48   May I purchase definitive Series EE savings bonds through employee thrift, savings, vacation, and similar plans?

You may purchase bonds registered in the names of trustees of employee plans in book-entry form in multiples of $100 through a designated Federal Reserve Bank, after we have approved the plan as eligible for the special limitation under § 353.13 of this chapter.

§ 351.49   How are definitive Series EE savings bonds delivered?

We deliver definitive bonds by mail to your address. If your address is within the United States, its territories or possessions, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, we will deliver bonds at our risk. Bonds delivered elsewhere will be delivered at your risk; however, at our discretion, we may require delivery to an address within the United States, or refuse delivery to addresses in countries referred to in part 211 of this chapter.

§ 351.50   How is payment made when definitive Series EE savings bonds are redeemed?

(a) Payment in general. A financial institution qualified as a paying agent under the provisions of 31 CFR part 321 will pay the current redemption value of a definitive Series EE bond presented for payment. The bond must meet the requirements for payment specified in 31 CFR part 353. You must establish your identity and entitlement to redemption to the satisfaction of the agent, in accordance with our instructions and identification guidelines, and must sign and complete the request for payment.
Payment in general.
A financial institution qualified as a paying agent under the provisions of 31 CFR part 321 will pay the current redemption value of a definitive Series EE bond presented for payment. The bond must meet the requirements for payment specified in 31 CFR part 353. You must establish your identity and entitlement to redemption to the satisfaction of the agent, in accordance with our instructions and identification guidelines, and must sign and complete the request for payment.
(b) Payment to beneficiary or legal representative. A paying agent may, but is not required to, pay the current redemption value of a definitive Series EE savings bond upon the request of a beneficiary if he or she survives the owner, or a legal representative designated in the bond registration by name and capacity, or a court-appointed legal representative of the last-deceased registrant's estate provided:
Payment to beneficiary or legal representative.
A paying agent may, but is not required to, pay the current redemption value of a definitive Series EE savings bond upon the request of a beneficiary if he or she survives the owner, or a legal representative designated in the bond registration by name and capacity, or a court-appointed legal representative of the last-deceased registrant's estate provided:
(1) The bond is in order for payment; and
(2) The presenter establishes his or her identity to the satisfaction of the agent in accordance with our instructions and identification guidelines, and signs and completes the request for payment.

§ 351.51   How can I find out what my definitive Series EE savings bonds are worth?

(a) Redemption values. We make redemption values available for definitive bonds in various formats and media.
Redemption values.
We make redemption values available for definitive bonds in various formats and media.
(1) You may determine the redemption value for definitive bonds on the Internet at <http://www.savingsbonds.gov>.
http://www.savingsbonds.gov
>.
(2) You may download savings bond calculators from the Internet at <http://www.savingsbonds.gov>.
http://www.savingsbonds.gov
>.
(3) You may obtain paper tables from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328. We reserve the right to cease making paper tables of redemption values available.
(b) Redemption penalty. For bonds issued after May 1, 1997, redemption values published in the tables reflect the three-month interest penalty applied to bonds redeemed prior to five years from the issue date.
Redemption penalty.
For bonds issued after May 1, 1997, redemption values published in the tables reflect the three-month interest penalty applied to bonds redeemed prior to five years from the issue date.

§§ 351.52-351.59   [Reserved]


Subpart D—Book-entry Series EE Savings Bonds


§ 351.60   How are book-entry Series EE savings bonds purchased and held?

Book-entry bonds must be purchased and held online through your New Treasury Direct account. We provide instructions for opening an account online at <http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov>.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov
>.

§ 351.61   What are the denominations and prices of book-entry Series EE savings bonds?

Book-entry bonds are issued in a minimum amount of $25, with additional increments of one cent.

§ 351.62   How is payment made for purchases of book-entry Series EE savings bonds?

You may only purchase book-entry Series EE savings bonds online through your New Treasury Direct account. You may pay for your securities through a debit to your designated account at a United States depository financial institution, or by applying the redemption proceeds of a certificate of indebtedness held in your New Treasury Direct account.
[[69 FR 50308, Aug. 16, 2004]]

§ 351.63   How are redemption payments made for my redeemed book-entry Series EE savings bonds?

We will make payments electronically by direct deposit, using the ACH method, to your designated account at a United States depository financial institution. You may also direct that a payment be used to purchase a certificate of indebtedness to be held in your New Treasury Direct account.
[[69 FR 50308, Aug. 16, 2004]]

§ 351.64   What is the issue date of a book-entry Series EE savings bond?

The issue date of a book-entry Series EE savings bond is the first day of the month in which the security posts to the current holdings of the account owner.
[[69 FR 50308, Aug. 16, 2004]]

§ 351.65   What amount of book-entry Series EE savings bonds may I acquire per year?

The principal amount of book-entry Series EE savings bonds that you may acquire in any calendar year is provided at § 363.52.
[[77 FR 213, Jan. 4, 2012]]

§§ 351.66-351.67   [Reserved]


§ 351.68   Are taxpayer identification numbers (TINs) required for registration of book-entry Series EE savings bonds?

The TIN of each person named in the registration is required to purchase a book-entry bond.

§ 351.69   When is a book-entry Series EE savings bond validly issued?

A book-entry bond is validly issued when it is posted to your New Treasury Direct account.

§ 351.70   How are redemption values calculated for book-entry Series EE savings bonds?

We base current redemption values (CRV) for book-entry Series EE savings bonds on the definitive savings bond CRV. We use the CRV for a $100 principal amount as calculated in § 351.16 to calculate a CRV prorated to the book-entry principal investment amount for the corresponding issue and redemption dates. Calculated book-entry CRV will be rounded to the nearest one cent. 
2
 The formula is as follows:
2
The formula is as follows:
2 Example: Calculated value of $25.044 rounds to $25.04; calculated value of $25.045 rounds to $25.05.
2
Example: Calculated value of $25.044 rounds to $25.04; calculated value of $25.045 rounds to $25.05.
[Book-entry principal investment ÷ $100] × [CRV value for $100 principal amount].
[[68 FR 24796, May 8, 2003, as amended at 75 FR 52460, Aug. 26, 2010]]

§ 351.71   How can I find out what my book-entry Series EE savings bonds are worth?

(a) Redemption values. You may access redemption values for your book-entry bonds through your New Treasury Direct account.
Redemption values.
You may access redemption values for your book-entry bonds through your New Treasury Direct account.
(b) Redemption penalty. Redemption values shown in your New Treasury Direct account for bonds that are within 5 years from issue date reflect the three-month interest penalty applied to bonds redeemed prior to five years from the issue date.
Redemption penalty.
Redemption values shown in your New Treasury Direct account for bonds that are within 5 years from issue date reflect the three-month interest penalty applied to bonds redeemed prior to five years from the issue date.

§§ 351.72-351.80   [Reserved]


Subpart E—Miscellaneous Provisions


§ 351.81   Is the Education Savings Bond Program available for Series EE savings bonds?

You may be able to exclude from income for Federal income tax purposes all or part of the interest received on the redemption of qualified bonds during the year. To qualify for the program, you or the coowner (in the case of definitive savings bonds) must have paid qualified higher education expenses during the same year. You also must have satisfied certain other conditions. This exclusion is known as the Education Savings Bond Program. Information about the program can be found in Internal Revenue Service Publications. (For example, see Publication 17, “Your Federal Income Tax,” Publication 550, “Investment Income and Expenses,” and Publication 970, “Tax Benefits for Higher Education.”) These publications are available on the IRS Web site at http://www.irs.gov.
http://www.irs.gov.

§ 351.82   Does Fiscal Service prohibit the issuance of Series EE savings bonds in a chain letter scheme?

We do not permit bonds to be issued in a chain letter or pyramid scheme. We authorize an issuing agent to refuse to issue a bond or accept a purchase order if there is reason to believe that a purchase is connected with a chain letter. The agent's decision is final.

§ 351.83   [Reserved]


§ 351.84   Does Fiscal Service make any reservations as to issue of Series EE savings bonds?

We may reject any application for Series EE bonds, in whole or in part. We may refuse to issue, or permit to be issued, any bonds in any case or class of cases, if we deem the action to be in the public interest. Our action in any such respect is final.

§ 351.85   May Fiscal Service waive any provision in this part?

We may waive or modify any provision of this part in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship:
(a) If such action would not be inconsistent with law or equity;
(b) If it does not impair any material existing rights; and
(c) If we are satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 351.86   What is the role of Federal Reserve Banks and Branches?

(a) Federal Reserve Banks and Branches are fiscal agents of the United States. They are authorized to perform such services as we may request of them, in connection with the issue, servicing and redemption of Series EE bonds.
(b) We have currently designated the following Federal Reserve Offices to provide savings bond services:
Servicing site
Reserve district served
Geographic area served
Federal Reserve Bank, Buffalo Branch, 160 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14202
New York, Boston
Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey (northern half), New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands.
Federal Reserve Bank, Pittsburgh Branch, 717 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Cleveland, Philadelphia
Delaware, Kentucky (eastern half), New Jersey, (southern half), Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia (northern panhandle only).
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 701 East Byrd Street, Richmond, VA 23219
Richmond, Atlanta
Alabama, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana (southern half), Maryland, Mississippi (southern half), North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee (eastern half), Virginia, West Virginia (except northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 90 Hennepin Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55401
Minneapolis, Chicago.
Illinois (northern half), Indiana (northern half), Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin.
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 925 Grand Boulevard, Kansas City, MO 64106
Dallas, San Francisco, Kansas City, St. Louis
Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois (southern half), Indiana (southern half), Indiana (southern half), Kansas, Kentucky (western half), Louisiana (northern half), Mississippi (northern half), Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Tennessee (western half), Texas, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Guam.

§ 351.87   May Fiscal Service revise, supplement or amend the terms of this offering?

We may revise, supplement or amend the terms of this offering at any time.

Appendix to Part 351—Tax Considerations

1. What are some general tax considerations?
1. What are some general tax considerations?
General. Interest on savings bonds is subject to taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The bonds are exempt from taxation by any State or political subdivision of a State, except for estate or inheritance taxes. (See 31 U.S.C. 3124.)
General.
Interest on savings bonds is subject to taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The bonds are exempt from taxation by any State or political subdivision of a State, except for estate or inheritance taxes. (See 31 U.S.C. 3124.)
2. What reporting methods are available for savings bonds?
2. What reporting methods are available for savings bonds?
(a) Reporting methods. You may use either of the following two methods for reporting the increase in the redemption value of the bond for Federal income tax purposes:
Reporting methods.
You may use either of the following two methods for reporting the increase in the redemption value of the bond for Federal income tax purposes:
(1) Cash basis method. You may defer reporting the increase to the year of final maturity, redemption, or other disposition, whichever is earliest; or
Cash basis method.
You may defer reporting the increase to the year of final maturity, redemption, or other disposition, whichever is earliest; or
(2) Accrual basis method. You may elect to report the increase each year, in which case the election applies to all Series EE bonds that you then own, those subsequently acquired, and to any other obligations purchased on a discount basis.
Accrual basis method.
You may elect to report the increase each year, in which case the election applies to all Series EE bonds that you then own, those subsequently acquired, and to any other obligations purchased on a discount basis.
(b) Changing methods. If you use the cash basis method, you may change to the accrual basis method without obtaining permission from the Internal Revenue Service. However, once you elect to use the accrual basis method in paragraph (a)(2), you may change the method of reporting the increase only by following the specific procedures prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for making a method change. For further information, you may contact the Internal Revenue Service director for your area, or the Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20224.
Changing methods.
If you use the cash basis method, you may change to the accrual basis method without obtaining permission from the Internal Revenue Service. However, once you elect to use the accrual basis method in paragraph (a)(2), you may change the method of reporting the increase only by following the specific procedures prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for making a method change. For further information, you may contact the Internal Revenue Service director for your area, or the Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20224.
3. What transactions have potential tax consequences?
3. What transactions have potential tax consequences?
The following types of transactions, among others, may have potential tax consequences:
(a) A reissue that affects the rights of any of the persons named on a definitive Series EE savings bond may have tax consequences for the owner.
(b) The transfer of a book-entry Series EE savings bond from one owner to another may have tax consequences for the transferor.
(c) The redemption of a book-entry Series EE savings bond by the secondary owner may have tax consequences for the primary owner.
(d) The purchase of a Series EE savings bond as a gift may have gift tax consequences.

PART 352—OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES HH

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3105.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3105.
[Source:54 FR 40249, Sept. 29, 1989, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
54 FR 40249, Sept. 29, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

§ 352.0   Offering of bonds.

The Secretary of the Treasury offered to the people of the United States, United States Savings Bonds of Series HH in exchange for eligible United States Savings Bonds of Series E and EE and United States Savings Notes (Freedom Shares). This offering is being withdrawn and will terminate at the close of business on August 31, 2004.
[[69 FR 40318, July 2, 2004]]

§ 352.1   Governing regulations.

Series HH bonds are subject to the regulations of the Department of the Treasury, now or hereafter prescribed, governing United States Savings Bonds of Series EE and HH contained in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80, as amended (31 CFR part 353), hereinafter referred to as Circular No. 3-80.

§ 352.2   Description of bonds.

(a) General. Series HH bonds were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable. The bonds are distinguishable by the portraits, color, border design, tax-deferral legend, and text material.
General.
Series HH bonds were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable. The bonds are distinguishable by the portraits, color, border design, tax-deferral legend, and text material.
(b) Denominations and prices. Series HH bonds were issued at face amount and are in denominations of $500, $1,000, $5,000 and $10,000.
Denominations and prices.
Series HH bonds were issued at face amount and are in denominations of $500, $1,000, $5,000 and $10,000.
(c) Term. Each bond bears an issue date which is the date from which interest is earned. The date was established as provided in § 352.7(f). Series HH bonds have an original maturity period of 10 years and have been granted an extended maturity period of 10 years; they will reach final maturity 20 years from their issue dates.
Term.
Each bond bears an issue date which is the date from which interest is earned. The date was established as provided in § 352.7(f). Series HH bonds have an original maturity period of 10 years and have been granted an extended maturity period of 10 years; they will reach final maturity 20 years from their issue dates.
(d) Redemption. A Series HH bond may be redeemed after six months from its issue date. The Secretary of the Treasury may not call Series HH bonds for redemption prior to maturity. In any case where Series HH bonds are surrendered to an authorized paying agent for redemption in the month prior to an interest payment date, redemption will not be deferred but will be made in regular course, unless the presenter specifically requests that the transaction be delayed until that date. A request to defer redemption made more than one month preceding the interest payment date will not be accepted.
Redemption.
A Series HH bond may be redeemed after six months from its issue date. The Secretary of the Treasury may not call Series HH bonds for redemption prior to maturity. In any case where Series HH bonds are surrendered to an authorized paying agent for redemption in the month prior to an interest payment date, redemption will not be deferred but will be made in regular course, unless the presenter specifically requests that the transaction be delayed until that date. A request to defer redemption made more than one month preceding the interest payment date will not be accepted.
(e) Investment yield (interest). (1) During original maturity. Interest payments on Series HH bonds will produce the investment yields specified below during their original maturity period:
Investment yield (interest).
(1) During original maturity. Interest payments on Series HH bonds will produce the investment yields specified below during their original maturity period:
(i) Bonds with issue dates of January 1, 2003, and thereafter. The investment yield applicable to Series HH bonds issued on or after January 1, 2003, will be furnished in rate announcements by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. The rate announced will apply to bonds issued during the period covered by the announcement.
Bonds with issue dates of January 1, 2003, and thereafter.
The investment yield applicable to Series HH bonds issued on or after January 1, 2003, will be furnished in rate announcements by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. The rate announced will apply to bonds issued during the period covered by the announcement.
(ii) Bonds with issue dates of March 1, 1993, through December 1, 2002. Series HH bonds with issue dates of March 1, 1993, through December 1, 2002, yield 4 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
Bonds with issue dates of March 1, 1993, through December 1, 2002.
Series HH bonds with issue dates of March 1, 1993, through December 1, 2002, yield 4 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
(iii) Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993. Series HH bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993, yield 6 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993.
Series HH bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993, yield 6 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
(iv) Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1986, through September 1, 1989. Series HH bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1986, through September 1, 1989, will yield 6 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1986, through September 1, 1989.
Series HH bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1986, through September 1, 1989, will yield 6 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
(v) Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1982, through October 1, 1986. Series HH bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1982, through October 1, 1986, will yield 7.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1982, through October 1, 1986.
Series HH bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1982, through October 1, 1986, will yield 7.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
(vi) Bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1981, through October 1, 1982. Series HH bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1981, through October 1, 1982, will yield 8.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
Bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1981, through October 1, 1982.
Series HH bonds with issue dates of May 1, 1981, through October 1, 1982, will yield 8.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually, to original maturity.
(vii) Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1980, through April 1, 1981. Series HH bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1980, through April 1, 1981, were originally offered to yield 7.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually. The yield to original maturity was increased by 1 percent, effective with the first full semiannual interest accrual period beginning on or after May 1, 1981.
Bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1980, through April 1, 1981.
Series HH bonds with issue dates of November 1, 1980, through April 1, 1981, were originally offered to yield 7.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually. The yield to original maturity was increased by 1 percent, effective with the first full semiannual interest accrual period beginning on or after May 1, 1981.
(viii) Bonds with issue dates of January 1, 1980, through October 1, 1980. Series HH bonds with issue dates of January 1, 1980, through October 1, 1980, were originally offered to yield 6.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually. The yield to original maturity was increased by 1 percent, effective with the first full semiannual interest accrual period beginning on or after November 1, 1980, and an additional 1 percent, effective with the first full semiannual interest accrual period beginning on or after May 1, 1981.
Bonds with issue dates of January 1, 1980, through October 1, 1980.
Series HH bonds with issue dates of January 1, 1980, through October 1, 1980, were originally offered to yield 6.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually. The yield to original maturity was increased by 1 percent, effective with the first full semiannual interest accrual period beginning on or after November 1, 1980, and an additional 1 percent, effective with the first full semiannual interest accrual period beginning on or after May 1, 1981.
(2) During extended maturity. The investment yields for Series HH bonds during their extended maturity periods are as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.
During extended maturity.
The investment yields for Series HH bonds during their extended maturity periods are as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.
(i) Bonds that enter an extended maturity period on or after January 1, 2003. The investment yield applicable to Series HH bonds that enter an extended maturity period on or after January 1, 2003, will be furnished in rate announcements by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. The rate announced will apply to bonds that enter an extended maturity period during the period covered by the announcement.
Bonds that enter an extended maturity period on or after January 1, 2003.
The investment yield applicable to Series HH bonds that enter an extended maturity period on or after January 1, 2003, will be furnished in rate announcements by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee. The rate announced will apply to bonds that enter an extended maturity period during the period covered by the announcement.
(ii) Bonds that entered an extended maturity period from March 1, 1993, through December 1, 2002. The investment yield applicable to Series HH bonds that entered an extended maturity period from March 1, 1993, through December 1, 2002, is 4 percent per annum, paid semiannually.
Bonds that entered an extended maturity period from March 1, 1993, through December 1, 2002.
The investment yield applicable to Series HH bonds that entered an extended maturity period from March 1, 1993, through December 1, 2002, is 4 percent per annum, paid semiannually.
(iii) Bonds that entered an extended maturity period from January 1, 1990, through February 1, 1993. The investment yield applicable to Series HH bonds that entered into an extended maturity period from January 1, 1990, through February 1, 1993, is 6 percent per annum, paid semiannually.
Bonds that entered an extended maturity period from January 1, 1990, through February 1, 1993.
The investment yield applicable to Series HH bonds that entered into an extended maturity period from January 1, 1990, through February 1, 1993, is 6 percent per annum, paid semiannually.
(f) Payment of interest. The interest on a Series HH bond is paid semiannually beginning six months from the issue date. Interest ceases at final maturity or, if the bond is redeemed before final maturity, as of the end of the interest period preceding the date of redemption. If the redemption date falls on an interest payment date, interest ceases on that date.
Payment of interest.
The interest on a Series HH bond is paid semiannually beginning six months from the issue date. Interest ceases at final maturity or, if the bond is redeemed before final maturity, as of the end of the interest period preceding the date of redemption. If the redemption date falls on an interest payment date, interest ceases on that date.
(1) Bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989. Interest on Series HH bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989, will be paid by the automated clearing house (ACH) method to the registered owner or coowner's account at a financial institution, unless the Bureau of the Fiscal Service determines that extraordinary circumstances warrant payment by check or other means.
Bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989.
Interest on Series HH bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989, will be paid by the automated clearing house (ACH) method to the registered owner or coowner's account at a financial institution, unless the Bureau of the Fiscal Service determines that extraordinary circumstances warrant payment by check or other means.
(2) Bonds issued prior to October 1, 1989. Interest on Series HH bonds issued prior to October 1, 1989, will be paid as follows:
Bonds issued prior to October 1, 1989.
Interest on Series HH bonds issued prior to October 1, 1989, will be paid as follows:
(i) By check drawn to the order of the registered owner or both coowners; or
(ii) Upon request, by the ACH method to the owner or coowner's account at a financial institution.
(g) Rules governing payment of interest by the ACH method. Provisions contained in § 353.31 of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80, as amended (31 CFR part 353), apply to the submission of deposit account information for Series HH interest payments made on and after October 1, 1989, for which ACH payment:
Rules governing payment of interest by the ACH method.
Provisions contained in § 353.31 of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80, as amended (31 CFR part 353), apply to the submission of deposit account information for Series HH interest payments made on and after October 1, 1989, for which ACH payment:
(1) Is required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section;
(2) Is requested by an owner or coowner on or after October 1, 1989, pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section; or
(3) Was requested by an owner or coowner prior to October 1, 1989.
Interest payments made by the ACH method on and after October 1, 1989, will be processed in accordance with 31 CFR part 370.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0094)
(h) Tables of interest payments and redemption values. Tables showing the interest payments and redemption values of bonds issued under previous revisions of this Circular will be available from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service and designated Federal Reserve Banks.
Tables of interest payments and redemption values.
Tables showing the interest payments and redemption values of bonds issued under previous revisions of this Circular will be available from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service and designated Federal Reserve Banks.
[[54 FR 40249, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 60947, Nov. 18, 1993; 59 FR 10540, Mar. 4, 1994; 67 FR 79384, Dec. 24, 2002; 69 FR 40318, July 2, 2004]]

§ 352.3   Registration and issue.

(a) Registration. Series HH bonds may be registered as set forth in subpart B of 31 CFR part 353, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80.
Registration.
Series HH bonds may be registered as set forth in subpart B of 31 CFR part 353, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80.
(b) Validity of issue. A bond is validly issued when it is registered as provided 31 CFR part 353, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80, and bears an issue date and appropriate validation indicia.
Validity of issue.
A bond is validly issued when it is registered as provided 31 CFR part 353, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 3-80, and bears an issue date and appropriate validation indicia.
(c) Taxpayer identifying number. The registration of a bond must include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named co-owner. The taxpayer identifying number of the second-named coowner or beneficiary is not required but its inclusion is desirable.
Taxpayer identifying number.
The registration of a bond must include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named co-owner. The taxpayer identifying number of the second-named coowner or beneficiary is not required but its inclusion is desirable.
[[54 FR 40249, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 57 FR 14286, Apr. 17, 1992; 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006]]

§ 352.4   Limitation on purchases.

Series HH bonds issued under the terms of this Circular were not subject to a purchase limitation.
[[54 FR 40249, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 69 FR 40318, July 2, 2004]]

§ 352.5   Authorized issuing and paying agents.

Series HH bonds were issued and may be redeemed only by Federal Reserve Banks (see § 352.13) and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
[[69 FR 40318, July 2, 2004]]

§ 352.6   [Reserved]


§ 352.7   Issues on exchange.

(a) Securities eligible for exchange. Prior to the close of business on August 31, 2004, owners were permitted to exchange United States Savings Bonds of Series E and EE and United States Savings Notes (Freedom Shares) at their current redemption values for Series HH bonds. Series E bonds and savings notes remained eligible for exchange for a period of one year from the month in which they reached final maturity. Series EE bonds issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, became eligible for exchange six months after their issue dates. Series EE bonds issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter, became eligible for exchange 12 months after their issue dates.
Securities eligible for exchange.
Prior to the close of business on August 31, 2004, owners were permitted to exchange United States Savings Bonds of Series E and EE and United States Savings Notes (Freedom Shares) at their current redemption values for Series HH bonds. Series E bonds and savings notes remained eligible for exchange for a period of one year from the month in which they reached final maturity. Series EE bonds issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, became eligible for exchange six months after their issue dates. Series EE bonds issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter, became eligible for exchange 12 months after their issue dates.
(b) Basis for issue. Series HH bonds were issued on exchange by an authorized issuing agent upon receipt of a properly executed exchange application with eligible securities, and additional cash, if any, and any supporting evidence that was required under the regulations. If eligible securities were submitted directly to a Federal Reserve Bank referred to in § 351.13, each was required to bear a properly signed and certified request for payment. Checks in payment of additional cash needed to complete a transaction (see paragraph (d) of this section) were required to be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank.
Basis for issue.
Series HH bonds were issued on exchange by an authorized issuing agent upon receipt of a properly executed exchange application with eligible securities, and additional cash, if any, and any supporting evidence that was required under the regulations. If eligible securities were submitted directly to a Federal Reserve Bank referred to in § 351.13, each was required to bear a properly signed and certified request for payment. Checks in payment of additional cash needed to complete a transaction (see paragraph (d) of this section) were required to be drawn to the order of the Federal Reserve Bank.
(c) Role of financial institutions. Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), authorizes financial institutions qualified as paying agents for savings bonds and notes to redeem eligible securities presented for exchange and to forward an exchange application and full payment to a Federal Reserve Bank referred to in § 351.13 for the issue of Series HH bonds. The securities redeemed on exchange by such an institution were required to be securities that it is authorized to redeem for cash.
Role of financial institutions.
Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), authorizes financial institutions qualified as paying agents for savings bonds and notes to redeem eligible securities presented for exchange and to forward an exchange application and full payment to a Federal Reserve Bank referred to in § 351.13 for the issue of Series HH bonds. The securities redeemed on exchange by such an institution were required to be securities that it is authorized to redeem for cash.
(d) Computation of issue price. The total current redemption value of the eligible securities submitted for exchange in any one transaction was required to be $500 or more. If the current redemption value was an even multiple of $500, Series HH bonds were required to be issued in that exact amount. If the current redemption value exceeded, but was not an even multiple of $500, the owner had the option either:
Computation of issue price.
The total current redemption value of the eligible securities submitted for exchange in any one transaction was required to be $500 or more. If the current redemption value was an even multiple of $500, Series HH bonds were required to be issued in that exact amount. If the current redemption value exceeded, but was not an even multiple of $500, the owner had the option either:
(1) To add the cash necessary to bring the amount of the application to the next higher multiple of $500, or
(2) To receive a payment to reduce the amount of the application to the next lower multiple of $500.
(e) Registration. A Series HH bond issued on exchange was permitted to be registered in any form authorized in subpart B of Circular No. 3-80, subject to the following restrictions:
Registration.
A Series HH bond issued on exchange was permitted to be registered in any form authorized in subpart B of Circular No. 3-80, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) If the securities submitted for exchange were in single ownership form, the owner was required to be named as owner or first-named coowner on the Series HH bonds. A coowner or beneficiary was permitted to be named.
(2) If the securities submitted for exchange were in coownership form, and one coowner was the “principal coowner”, that person was required to be named as owner or first-named coowner on the Series HH bonds. A coowner or beneficiary was also permitted to be named. The “principal coowner” was the coowner who purchased the securities presented for exchange with his or her own funds, or received them as a gift, inheritance or legacy, or as a result of judicial proceedings, and had them reissued in coownership form, provided he or she had received no contribution in money or money's worth for designating the other coowner on the securities.
(3) If the securities presented for exchange were in coownership form, and both coowners shared in their purchase or received them jointly as a gift, inheritance, or legacy or as a result of judicial proceedings, both persons were required to be named as coowners on the Series HH bonds.
(4) If the securities presented for exchange were in beneficiary form, the owner was required to be named on the Series HH bonds as owner or first-named coowner. If the owner was deceased, a surviving beneficiary was required to be named as owner or first-named coowner. In either case, a coowner or beneficiary was permitted to be named.
(f) Issue date. Series HH bonds issued on exchange were dated as of the first day of the month in which the eligible securities presented for exchange were redeemed by an authorized paying agent, as evidenced in the payment stamp on the securities and the exchange application.
Issue date.
Series HH bonds issued on exchange were dated as of the first day of the month in which the eligible securities presented for exchange were redeemed by an authorized paying agent, as evidenced in the payment stamp on the securities and the exchange application.
(g) Tax-deferred exchanges. (1) Continuation of tax deferral. Pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, an owner who had not been reporting the interest on his or her Series E or EE bonds and savings notes on an accrual basis for Federal income tax purposes, and who exchanged those securities for Series HH bonds, was permitted to continue to defer reporting the interest on the securities exchanged until the taxable year in which the Series HH bonds received in the exchange reach final maturity, are redeemed, or are otherwise disposed of, whichever is earlier. A reissue transaction that affects any of the persons required to be named on the Series HH bonds, as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, may result in termination of the tax deferral privilege.
Tax-deferred exchanges.
(1) Continuation of tax deferral. Pursuant to the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, an owner who had not been reporting the interest on his or her Series E or EE bonds and savings notes on an accrual basis for Federal income tax purposes, and who exchanged those securities for Series HH bonds, was permitted to continue to defer reporting the interest on the securities exchanged until the taxable year in which the Series HH bonds received in the exchange reach final maturity, are redeemed, or are otherwise disposed of, whichever is earlier. A reissue transaction that affects any of the persons required to be named on the Series HH bonds, as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, may result in termination of the tax deferral privilege.
(2) Tax deferral legend. Each bond issued in a tax-deferred exchange bore a legend showing how much of its issue price represented interest on the securities exchanged. This interest must be treated as income for Federal income tax purposes and reported in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
Tax deferral legend.
Each bond issued in a tax-deferred exchange bore a legend showing how much of its issue price represented interest on the securities exchanged. This interest must be treated as income for Federal income tax purposes and reported in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(3) Reporting of interest paid to owner. To the extent that it represented interest earned on the securities presented for exchange, an amount paid to an owner in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section was reportable as income for Federal income tax purposes for the year in which it was paid. Pursuant to 26 CFR 1.6049.4, a paying agent was required to report interest income of $10 or more included in any amount paid in an exchange transaction to the payee and to the Internal Revenue Service on Form 1099-INT or an approved substitute. A separate report was permitted to be made for each exchange transaction in which interest in the amount of $10 or more was paid, or all interest paid in both cash redemption and exchange transactions was permitted to be aggregated and reported annually should the total amount be $10 or more.
Reporting of interest paid to owner.
To the extent that it represented interest earned on the securities presented for exchange, an amount paid to an owner in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section was reportable as income for Federal income tax purposes for the year in which it was paid. Pursuant to 26 CFR 1.6049.4, a paying agent was required to report interest income of $10 or more included in any amount paid in an exchange transaction to the payee and to the Internal Revenue Service on Form 1099-INT or an approved substitute. A separate report was permitted to be made for each exchange transaction in which interest in the amount of $10 or more was paid, or all interest paid in both cash redemption and exchange transactions was permitted to be aggregated and reported annually should the total amount be $10 or more.
(h) Exchanges without tax deferral. The rules prescribed for exchanges under paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section also applied to exchanges by owners who report the interest earned on their bonds of Series E and EE and savings notes annually for Federal income tax purposes, or elect to report all such interest that was not previously reported for the taxable year of the exchange. Series HH bonds issued in a nontax-deferred exchange were required to show a “0” in the tax-deferral legend.
Exchanges without tax deferral.
The rules prescribed for exchanges under paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section also applied to exchanges by owners who report the interest earned on their bonds of Series E and EE and savings notes annually for Federal income tax purposes, or elect to report all such interest that was not previously reported for the taxable year of the exchange. Series HH bonds issued in a nontax-deferred exchange were required to show a “0” in the tax-deferral legend.
[[69 FR 40318, July 2, 2004]]

§ 352.8   Reinvestment of matured Series H bonds.

(a) General. Prior to the close of business on August 31, 2004, the proceeds of matured Series H and HH bonds, whether purchased for cash or issued in exchange for other securities, were permitted to be reinvested in Series HH bonds. Tax deferral granted to interest earned on securities exchanged for Series H bonds was not permitted to be continued when the Series H bonds reached final maturity and their proceeds were reinvested in Series HH bonds. The amount appearing in the legend on a matured Series H bond on which tax deferral was granted must be reported for Federal income tax purposes for the year of such final maturity.
General.
Prior to the close of business on August 31, 2004, the proceeds of matured Series H and HH bonds, whether purchased for cash or issued in exchange for other securities, were permitted to be reinvested in Series HH bonds. Tax deferral granted to interest earned on securities exchanged for Series H bonds was not permitted to be continued when the Series H bonds reached final maturity and their proceeds were reinvested in Series HH bonds. The amount appearing in the legend on a matured Series H bond on which tax deferral was granted must be reported for Federal income tax purposes for the year of such final maturity.
(b) Rules. The reinvestment transaction were subject to the rules governing exchanges, as set forth in § 352.7 of this Circular, and the Series HH bonds issued on reinvestment were identical in all respects with those issued in a non-tax-deferred exchange.
Rules.
The reinvestment transaction were subject to the rules governing exchanges, as set forth in § 352.7 of this Circular, and the Series HH bonds issued on reinvestment were identical in all respects with those issued in a non-tax-deferred exchange.
[[54 FR 40249, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 69 FR 40319, July 2, 2004]]

§ 352.9   Delivery of bonds.

Authorized issuing agents delivered Series HH bonds by mail at the risk and expense of the United States to the address given by the applicant, if it is within the United States, one of its territories or possessions, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. No mail deliveries elsewhere were made. Bonds acquired by a citizen of the United States residing abroad were delivered only to such address in the United States as the applicant directs.
[[54 FR 40249, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 69 FR 40319, July 2, 2004]]

§ 352.10   Taxation.

The interest paid on Series HH bonds is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended. The bonds are subject to estate, inheritance, gift, or other excise taxes, whether Federal or State, but are exempt from all taxation now or hereafter imposed on the principal or interest by any State or any local taxing authority.

§ 352.11   Reservation as to issue of bonds.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as delegate of the Secretary of the Treasury, reserved the right to reject any application for Series HH bonds, in whole or in part, and to refuse to issue or permit to be issued any bonds in any case or class of cases, if the action was deemed to be in the public interest. The Commissioner's action in such respect was final.
[[54 FR 40249, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 69 FR 40319, July 2, 2004]]

§ 352.12   Waiver.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as delegate of the Secretary of the Treasury, may waive or modify any provision of this Circular in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship if:
(a) Such action would not be inconsistent with law or equity;
(b) It does not impair any existing rights; and
(c) The Commissioner is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 352.13   Fiscal agents.

(a) Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, referred to below, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such services as may be requested of them by the Secretary of the Treasury, or his or her delegate, in connection with the issue, servicing, and redemption of Series HH bonds.
(b)(1) The following Federal Reserve Offices have been designated to provide savings bond services:
Servicing office
Reserve districts served
Geographic area served
Federal Reserve Bank, Buffalo Branch, P.O. Box 961, Buffalo, NY 14240
New York, Boston
CT, MA, ME, NH, NJ (northern half), NY (City & State), RI, VT, Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands.
Federal Reserve Bank, Pittsburgh Branch, P.O. Box 867, Pittsburgh, PA 15230
Cleveland, Philadelphia
DE, KY (eastern half), NJ (southern half), OH, PA, WV (northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, P.O. Box 27622, Richmond, VA 23261
Richmond, Atlanta
AL, DC, FL, LA (southern half), MD, MS (southern half), NC, SC, TN (eastern half), VA, WV (except northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 250 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55480
Minneapolis, Chicago
IA, IL (northern half), IN (northern half), MN, MT, ND, SD, WI.
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 925 Grand Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64198
Dallas, San Francisco, Kansas City, St. Louis
AK, AR, AZ, CA, CO, HI, ID, IL (southern half), IN (southern half), KS, KY (western half), LA (northern half), MO, MS (northern half), NE, NM, NV, OK, OR, TN (western half), TX, WA, WY, UT and GU.
(2) Until March 1, 1996, other Federal Reserve Offices may continue to provide some savings bond services, but such services will be phased out over the period prior to that date.
[[59 FR 10541, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 352.14   Reservation as to terms of offer.

The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time or from time to time supplement or amend the terms of this offering of bonds.

PART 353—REGULATIONS GOVERNING DEFINITIVE UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES EE AND HH

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3105, 3125.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3105, 3125.
Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 353 appear at 79 FR 8859, Feb. 14, 2014.
[Source:44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 353.0   Applicability.

(a) The regulations in this part govern definitive (paper) Series EE savings bonds that have not been converted to book-entry bonds through TreasuryDirect® and definitive Series HH savings bonds. These bonds bear issue dates of January 1, 1980, or thereafter.
(b) The regulations in 31 CFR part 315 govern all other definitive United States Savings Bonds and Savings Notes.
(c) The regulations in 31 CFR part 363 govern Series EE savings bonds that were originally issued as book-entry bonds in TreasuryDirect® and Series EE savings bonds that were converted to book-entry bonds through TreasuryDirect®.
[[68 FR 24805, May 8, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005]]

§ 353.1   Official agencies.

(a) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service of the Department of the Treasury is responsible for administering the Savings Bonds Program. Authority to process transactions has been delegated to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and may be delegated to other Federal Reserve Banks and Branches as fiscal agents of the United States. The Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, and their authority to process transactions as fiscal agents of the United States, are subject to change as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, or his or her designee.
(b) Information about savings bonds and savings bond transactions, including savings bond transaction forms and email contact information, is available through the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's Web site at http://www.treasurydirect.gov. Communications concerning transactions and requests for forms may also be addressed to:
http://www.treasurydirect.gov.
Communications concerning transactions and requests for forms may also be addressed to:
(1) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, P.O. Box 7012, Parkersburg, WV 26106-7012; or
(2) The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Treasury Retail Securities Site, P.O. Box 214, Minneapolis, MN 55480-0214.
(c) Notices and documents must be filed with the agencies referred to above and as indicated in these regulations.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 10541, Mar. 4, 1994; 79 FR 8859, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 353.2   Definitions.

(a) Bond, or Series EE or HH savings bond, as used in this part, means a definitive United States Savings Bond of Series EE or HH.
Bond, or Series EE or HH savings bond,
as used in this part, means a definitive United States Savings Bond of Series EE or HH.
(b) Book-entry bond means a savings bond maintained by Treasury in electronic or paperless form as a computer record.
Book-entry bond
means a savings bond maintained by Treasury in electronic or paperless form as a computer record.
(c) Converted bond means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Converted bond
means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
(d) Incompetent means an individual who is incapable of handling his or her business affairs because of a legal, mental or medical disability, except that a minor is not an incompetent solely because of age.
Incompetent
means an individual who is incapable of handling his or her business affairs because of a legal, mental or medical disability, except that a minor is not an incompetent solely because of age.
(e) Inscription means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
Inscription
means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
(f) Issuing agent means an organization that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 4-67, current revision (31 CFR part 317), to issue savings bonds.
Issuing agent
means an organization that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 4-67, current revision (31 CFR part 317), to issue savings bonds.
(g) Paying agent means a financial institution that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), to make payment of savings bonds.
Paying agent
means a financial institution that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, current revision (31 CFR part 321), to make payment of savings bonds.
(h) Payment means redemption, unless otherwise indicated by context.
Payment
means redemption, unless otherwise indicated by context.
(i) Person means any legal entity including, but without limitation, an individual, corporation (public or private), partnership, unincorporated association, or fiduciary estate.
Person
means any legal entity including, but without limitation, an individual, corporation (public or private), partnership, unincorporated association, or fiduciary estate.
(j) Personal trust estates means trust estates established by natural persons in their own right for the benefit of themselves or other natural persons in whole or in part, and common trust funds comprised in whole or in part of such trust estates.
Personal trust estates
means trust estates established by natural persons in their own right for the benefit of themselves or other natural persons in whole or in part, and common trust funds comprised in whole or in part of such trust estates.
(k) Registration means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
Registration
means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
(l) Reissue means the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a new bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount. Reissue may also mean the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a book-entry bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount. All reissues are subject to the restrictions in § 353.48.
Reissue
means the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a new bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount. Reissue may also mean the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a book-entry bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount. All reissues are subject to the restrictions in § 353.48.
(m) Representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al. means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the individual. The term does not include parents in their own right, voluntary or natural guardians, or the executors or administrators of decedents' estates.
Representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al.
means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the individual. The term does not include parents in their own right, voluntary or natural guardians, or the executors or administrators of decedents' estates.
(n) Substitute bond means a bond or book-entry bond issued as a result of a claim or application for relief under subpart F of this part.
Substitute bond
means a bond or book-entry bond issued as a result of a claim or application for relief under subpart F of this part.
(o) Surrender means the actual receipt of a bond with an appropriate request for payment or reissue by either a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or, if a paying agent is authorized to handle the transaction, the actual receipt of the bond and the request for payment by the paying agent.
Surrender
means the actual receipt of a bond with an appropriate request for payment or reissue by either a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or, if a paying agent is authorized to handle the transaction, the actual receipt of the bond and the request for payment by the paying agent.
(p) Taxpayer identifying number means a social security account number or an employer identification number.
Taxpayer identifying number
means a social security account number or an employer identification number.
(q) Voluntary guardian means an individual who is recognized as authorized to act for an incompetent, as provided by § 353.64.
Voluntary guardian
means an individual who is recognized as authorized to act for an incompetent, as provided by § 353.64.
(r) Voluntary representative means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or distribution of a decedent's savings bonds pursuant to § 353.71.
Voluntary representative
means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or distribution of a decedent's savings bonds pursuant to § 353.71.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 68 FR 24805, May 8, 2003; 70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005; 70 FR 57430, Sept. 30, 2005; 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006; 79 FR 8859, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 353.3   Converting definitive savings bonds to book-entry bonds in TreasuryDirect®.

Series EE savings bonds that were originally issued as definitive bonds may be converted to book-entry bonds through TreasuryDirect®, an online system for holding Treasury securities. The Web address for TreasuryDirect® is http://www.treasurydirect.gov. Bond owners who wish to convert their definitive savings bonds should follow online instructions for conversion. Regulations governing converted bonds are found at 31 CFR part 363.
http://www.treasurydirect.gov.
Bond owners who wish to convert their definitive savings bonds should follow online instructions for conversion. Regulations governing converted bonds are found at 31 CFR part 363.
[[70 FR 14941, Mar. 23, 2005]]

Subpart B—Registration


§ 353.5   General rules.

(a) Registration is conclusive of ownership. Definitive savings bonds were issued only in registered form. The registration must express the actual ownership of, and interest in, the bond. The registration is conclusive of ownership, except as provided in § 353.49.
Registration is conclusive of ownership.
Definitive savings bonds were issued only in registered form. The registration must express the actual ownership of, and interest in, the bond. The registration is conclusive of ownership, except as provided in § 353.49.
(b) Requests for registration. Registrations requested must be clear, accurate and complete, conform substantially with one of the forms set forth in this subpart, and include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named coowner. The taxpayer identifying number of the second-named coowner or beneficiary is not required but its inclusion is desirable. The registration of all bonds owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and any description of the fiduciary capacity. An individual should be designated by the name he or she is ordinarily known by or uses in business, including at least one full given name. The name may be preceded or followed by any applicable title, such as Miss, Mr., Mrs., Ms., Dr., Rev., M.D., or D.D.. A suffix, such as Sr. or Jr., must be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from another member of his family. A married woman's own given name, not that of her husband, must be used; for example, Mary A. Jones or Mrs. Mary A. Jones, NOT Mrs. Frank B. Jones. The address must include, where appropriate, the number and street, route, or any other local feature, city, State, and ZIP Code.
Requests for registration.
Registrations requested must be clear, accurate and complete, conform substantially with one of the forms set forth in this subpart, and include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named coowner. The taxpayer identifying number of the second-named coowner or beneficiary is not required but its inclusion is desirable. The registration of all bonds owned by the same person, organization, or fiduciary should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and any description of the fiduciary capacity. An individual should be designated by the name he or she is ordinarily known by or uses in business, including at least one full given name. The name may be preceded or followed by any applicable title, such as
Miss, Mr., Mrs., Ms., Dr., Rev., M.D.,
or
D.D..
A suffix, such as
Sr.
or
Jr.,
must be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from another member of his family. A married woman's own given name, not that of her husband, must be used; for example,
Mary A. Jones
or
Mrs. Mary A. Jones,
NOT
Mrs. Frank B. Jones.
The address must include, where appropriate, the number and street, route, or any other local feature, city, State, and ZIP Code.
(c) Registration of bonds purchased as gifts. If the bonds were purchased as gifts, awards, prizes, etc., and the taxpayer identifying numbers of the intended owners are not known, the purchaser's number must be furnished. Bonds so inscribed will not be associated with the purchaser's own holdings. Bonds so registered will not be associated with the purchaser's own holdings. If the purchaser so requests, a bond may be inscribed to provide a “Mail to” instruction, followed by a delivery name and address. No rights of ownership are conferred on such designee.
Registration of bonds purchased as gifts.
If the bonds were purchased as gifts, awards, prizes, etc., and the taxpayer identifying numbers of the intended owners are not known, the purchaser's number must be furnished. Bonds so inscribed will not be associated with the purchaser's own holdings. Bonds so registered will not be associated with the purchaser's own holdings. If the purchaser so requests, a bond may be inscribed to provide a “Mail to” instruction, followed by a delivery name and address. No rights of ownership are conferred on such designee.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 55 FR 575, Jan. 5, 1990; 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006; 76 FR 66855, Oct. 31, 2011]]

§ 353.6   Restrictions on registration.

(a) Natural persons. Only an individual in his or her own right may be designated as coowner or beneficiary along with any other individual, whether on original issue or reissue, except as provided in § 353.7(f).
Natural persons.
Only an individual in his or her own right may be designated as coowner or beneficiary along with any other individual, whether on original issue or reissue, except as provided in § 353.7(f).
(b) Residence. The designation of an owner or first-named coowner is restricted, on original issue only, to persons (whether individuals or others) who are:
Residence.
The designation of an owner or first-named coowner is restricted, on original issue only, to persons (whether individuals or others) who are:
(1) Residents of the United States, its territories or possessions, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(2) Citizens of the United States residing abroad;
(3) Civilian employees of the United States or members of its armed forces, regardless of their residence or citizenship; and
(c) Nonresident aliens. A nonresident alien may be designated co-owner or beneficiary or, on authorized reissue, owner, unless the nonresident alien is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Registration is not permitted in any form which includes the name of any alien who is a resident of any restricted area.
Nonresident aliens.
A nonresident alien may be designated co-owner or beneficiary or, on authorized reissue, owner, unless the nonresident alien is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Registration is not permitted in any form which includes the name of any alien who is a resident of any restricted area.
(d) Minors. (1) Minors may purchase with their wages, earnings, or other funds belonging to them and under their control bonds registered in their names alone or with a coowner or beneficiary.
Minors.
(1) Minors may purchase with their wages, earnings, or other funds belonging to them and under their control bonds registered in their names alone or with a coowner or beneficiary.
(2) Bonds purchased by another person with funds belonging to a minor not under legal guardianship or similar fiduciary estate must be registered, without a coowner or beneficiary, in the name of the minor or a natural guardian on behalf of a minor.
(3) Bonds purchased with funds of another may be registered to name the minor as owner, coowner, or beneficiary. If the minor is under legal guardianship or similar fiduciary estate, the registration must include an appropriate reference to it.
(4) Bonds purchased as a gift to a minor under a gift-to-minors statute must be registered as prescribed by the statute and no coowner or beneficiary may be named.
(5) Bonds purchased by a representative of a minor's estate must be registered in the name of the minor and must include in the registration an appropriate reference to the guardianship or similar fiduciary estate. Bonds purchased by a representative of the estates of two or more minors, even though appointed in a single proceeding, must be registered in the name of each minor separately with appropriate reference to the guardianship or similar fiduciary estate.
(e) Incompetents. Bonds may be registered to name as owner, coowner, or beneficiary an incompetent for whose estate a guardian or similar representative has been appointed, except that a coowner or beneficiary may not be named on bonds purchased with funds belonging to the incompetent. The registration must include appropriate reference to the guardianship or similar fiduciary estate. Bonds should not be registered in the name of an incompetent unless there is a representative for his or her estate, except as provided in § 353.64.
Incompetents.
Bonds may be registered to name as owner, coowner, or beneficiary an incompetent for whose estate a guardian or similar representative has been appointed, except that a coowner or beneficiary may not be named on bonds purchased with funds belonging to the incompetent. The registration must include appropriate reference to the guardianship or similar fiduciary estate. Bonds should not be registered in the name of an incompetent unless there is a representative for his or her estate, except as provided in § 353.64.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 63 FR 64551, Nov. 20, 1998; 75 FR 52460, Aug. 26, 2010]]

§ 353.7   Authorized forms of registration.

Subject to any limitations or restrictions contained in these regulations on the right of any person to be named as owner, coowner, or beneficiary, bonds should be registered as indicated below. A savings bond registered in a form not substantially in agreement with one of the forms authorized by this subpart is not considered validly issued.
(a) Natural persons. A bond may be registered in the names of individuals in their own right, but only in one of the forms authorized by this paragraph.
Natural persons.
A bond may be registered in the names of individuals in their own right, but only in one of the forms authorized by this paragraph.
(1) Single ownership form. A bond may be registered in the name of one individual. Example:
Single ownership form.
A bond may be registered in the name of one individual. Example:
John A. Jones 123-45-6789.
(2) Coownership form. A bond may be registered in the names of two individuals in the alternative as coowners. The form of registration “A and B” is not authorized. Examples:
Coownership form.
A bond may be registered in the names of two individuals in the alternative as coowners. The form of registration “A and B” is not authorized. Examples:
John A. Jones 123-45-6789 or Ella S. Jones 987-65-4321.
John A. Jones 123-45-6789 or (Miss, Ms. or Mrs.) Ella S. Jones.
Ella S. Jones 987-65-4321 or John A. Jones.
(3) Beneficiary form. A bond may be registered in the name of one individual payable on death to another. “Payable on death to” may be abbreviated to “P.O.D.” Examples:
Beneficiary form.
A bond may be registered in the name of one individual payable on death to another. “Payable on death to” may be abbreviated to “P.O.D.” Examples:
John A. Jones 123-45-6789 payable on death to Mrs. Ella S. Jones.
John A. Jones 123-45-6789 P.O.D. Ella S. Jones 987-65-4321.
(b) Fiduciaries (including legal guardians and similar representatives, certain custodians, natural guardians, executors, administrators, and trustees)—(1) General. A bond may be registered in the name of any person or persons or any organization acting as fiduciary of a single fiduciary estate, but not where the fiduciary will hold the bond merely or principally as security for the performance of a duty, obligation, or service. Registration should conform to a form authorized by this paragraph. A coowner or beneficiary may be named only in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 353.6 (c) and (d). A common trust fund established and maintained by a financial institution authorized to act as a fiduciary will be considered a single fiduciary estate within the meaning of these regulations.
Fiduciaries (including legal guardians and similar representatives, certain custodians, natural guardians, executors, administrators, and trustees)
—(1)
General.
A bond may be registered in the name of any person or persons or any organization acting as fiduciary of a single fiduciary estate, but not where the fiduciary will hold the bond merely or principally as security for the performance of a duty, obligation, or service. Registration should conform to a form authorized by this paragraph. A coowner or beneficiary may be named only in accordance with the applicable provisions of § 353.6 (c) and (d). A common trust fund established and maintained by a financial institution authorized to act as a fiduciary will be considered a single fiduciary estate within the meaning of these regulations.
(2) Legal guardians, conservators, similar representatives, certain custodians. A bond may be registered in the name and title or capacity of the legally appointed or authorized representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged or infirm person, absentee, et al., or in the name of that individual followed by an appropriate reference to the estate. Examples:
Legal guardians, conservators, similar representatives, certain custodians.
A bond may be registered in the name and title or capacity of the legally appointed or authorized representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged or infirm person, absentee, et al., or in the name of that individual followed by an appropriate reference to the estate. Examples:
Tenth National Bank, guardian (or conservator, trustee, etc.) of the estate of George N. Brown 123-45-6789, a minor (or an incompetent, aged person, infirm person, or absentee).
Henry C. Smith, conservator of the estate of John R. White 123-45-6789, an adult, pursuant to Sec. 633.572 of the Iowa Code.
John F. Green 123-45-6789, a minor (or an incompetent) under custodianship by designation of the Veterans Administration.
Frank M. Redd 123-45-6789, an incompetent for whom Eric A. Redd has been designated trustee by the Department of the Army pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 602.
Arnold A. Ames, as custodian for Barry B. Bryan 123-45-6789, under the California Uniform Gifts to Minors Act.
Thomas J. Reed, as custodian for Lawrence W. Reed 123-45-6789, a minor, under laws of Georgia.
Richard A. Rowe 123-45-6789, for whom Reba L. Rowe is representative payee for social security benefits (or black lung benefits, as the case may be). (If the beneficiary is a minor, the words “a minor” should appear immediately after the social security number.)
Henry L. Green 123-45-6789 or George M. Brown, a minor under legal guardianship of the Tenth National Bank.
Henry L. Green 123-45-6789 P.O.D. George M. Brown, a minor under legal guardianship of the Tenth National Bank.
Redd State Hospital and School, selected payee for John A. Jones 123-45-6789, a Civil Service annuitant, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8345(e).
(3) Natural guardians. A bond may be registered in the name of either parent (natural and adoptive) of a minor, as natural guardian. The registration of a bond in this form is considered as establishing a fiduciary relationship. A coowner or beneficiary may be named but only if the funds used to purchase the bonds do not belong to the minor. Examples:
Natural guardians.
A bond may be registered in the name of either parent (natural and adoptive) of a minor, as natural guardian. The registration of a bond in this form is considered as establishing a fiduciary relationship. A coowner or beneficiary may be named but only if the funds used to purchase the bonds do not belong to the minor. Examples:
John A. Jones, as natural guardian for Henry M. Jones 123-45-6789.
Melba Smith, as natural guardian for Thelma Smith 123-45-6789 P.O.D. Bartholomew Smith.
(4) Executors and administrators. A bond may be registered in the name of the representative appointed by a court to act for an estate of a decedent, or in the name of an executor authorized to administer a trust under the terms of a will although not named trustee. The name and capacity of all the representatives as shown in the letters of appointment must be included in the registration and be followed by an adequate indentifying reference to the estate. Examples:
Executors and administrators.
A bond may be registered in the name of the representative appointed by a court to act for an estate of a decedent, or in the name of an executor authorized to administer a trust under the terms of a will although not named trustee. The name and capacity of all the representatives as shown in the letters of appointment must be included in the registration and be followed by an adequate indentifying reference to the estate. Examples:
John H. Smith and Calvin N. Jones, executors of the will (or administrators of the estate) of Robert J. Smith, deceased, 12-3456789.
John H. Smith, executor of the will of Robert J. Smith, deceased, in trust for Mrs. Jane L. Smith, with remainder over, 12-3456789.
(5) Trustees or life tenants under wills, deeds of trust, agreements, or similar instruments. A bond may be registered in the name and title of the trustee of a trust estate, or in the name of a life tenant, followed by an adequate identifying reference to the authority governing the trust or life tenancy. Examples:
Trustees or life tenants under wills, deeds of trust, agreements, or similar instruments.
A bond may be registered in the name and title of the trustee of a trust estate, or in the name of a life tenant, followed by an adequate identifying reference to the authority governing the trust or life tenancy. Examples:
Thomas J. White and Tenth National Bank, trustees under the will of Robert J. Smith, deceased, 12-3456789.
Jane N. Black 123-45-6789, life tenant under the will of Robert J. Black, deceased.
Tenth National Bank, trustee under agreement with Paul E. White, dated 2/1/80, 12-3456789.
Carl A. Black and Henry B. Green, trustees under agreement with Paul E. White, dated 2/1/80, 12-3456789.
Paul E. White, trustee under declaration of trust dated 2/1/80, 12-3456789.
(i) If the trust instrument designates by title only an officer of a board or an organization as trustee, only the title of the officer should be used. Example:
Chairman, Board of Trustees, First Church of Christ, Scientist, of Chicago, Illinois, in trust under the will of Robert J. Smith, deceased, 12-3456789.
(ii) The names of all trustees, in the form used in the trust instrument, must be included in the registration, except as follows:
(A) If there are several trustees designated as a board or they are required to act as a unit, their names may be omitted and the words “Board of Trustees” substituted for the word “trustee”. Example:
Board of Trustees of Immediate Relief Trust of Federal Aid Association, under trust indenture dated 2/1/80, 12-3456789.
(B) If the trustees do not constitute a board or are not required to act as a unit, and are too numerous to be designated in the registration by names and title, some or all the names may be omitted. Examples:
John A. Smith, Henry B. Jones, et al., trustees under the will of Edwin O. Mann, deceased, 12-3456789.
Trustees under the will of Edwin O. Mann, deceased, 12-3456789.
(6) Employee thrift, savings, vacation and similar plans. A bond may be registered in the name and title, or title alone, of the trustee of an eligible employee thrift, savings, vacation or similar plan, as defined in § 353.13(a). If the instrument creating the trust provides that the trustees shall serve for a limited term, their names may be omitted. Examples:
Employee thrift, savings, vacation and similar plans.
A bond may be registered in the name and title, or title alone, of the trustee of an eligible employee thrift, savings, vacation or similar plan, as defined in § 353.13(a). If the instrument creating the trust provides that the trustees shall serve for a limited term, their names may be omitted. Examples:
Tenth National Bank, trustee of Pension Fund of Safety Manufacturing Company, U/A with the company, dated March 31, 1980, 12-3456789.
Trustees of Retirement Fund of Safety Manufacturing Company, under directors' resolution adopted March 31, 1980, 12-3456789.
County Trust company, trustee of the Employee Savings Plan of Jones Company, Inc., U/A dated January 17, 1980, 12-3456789.
Trustee of the Employee Savings Plan of Brown Brothers, Inc., U/A dated January 20, 1980, 12-3456789.
(7) Funds of lodges, churches, societies, or similar organizations. A bond may be registered in the title of the trustees, or a board of trustees, holding funds in trust for a lodge, church, or society, or similar organization, whether or not incorporated. Examples:
Funds of lodges, churches, societies, or similar organizations.
A bond may be registered in the title of the trustees, or a board of trustees, holding funds in trust for a lodge, church, or society, or similar organization, whether or not incorporated. Examples:
Trustees of the First Baptist Church, Akron, OH, acting as a Board under section 15 of its bylaws, 12-3456789.
Trustees of Jamestown Lodge No. 1000, Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, under section 10 of its bylaws, 12-3456789.
Board of Trustees of Lotus Club, Washington, IN, under Article 10 of its constitution, 12-3456789.
(8) Investment agents for religious, educational, charitable and non-profit organizations. A bond may be registered in the name of a bank, trust company, or other financial institution, or an individual, as agent under an agreement with a religious, educational, charitable or non-profit organization, whether or not incorporated, if the agent holds funds for the sole purpose of investing them and paying the income to the organization. The name and designation of the agent must be followed by an adequate reference to the agreement. Examples:
Investment agents for religious, educational, charitable and non-profit organizations.
A bond may be registered in the name of a bank, trust company, or other financial institution, or an individual, as agent under an agreement with a religious, educational, charitable or non-profit organization, whether or not incorporated, if the agent holds funds for the sole purpose of investing them and paying the income to the organization. The name and designation of the agent must be followed by an adequate reference to the agreement. Examples:
Tenth National Bank, fiscal agent U/A with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of the Holy Trinity, dated 12/28/80, 12-3456789.
Sixth Trust Company, Investment Agent
U/A dated September 16, 1980, with Central City Post, Department of Illinois, American Legion, 12-3456789.
John Jones, Investment Agent U/A dated September 16, 1980, with Central City Post, Department of Illinois, American Legion, 12-3456789.
(9) Funds of school groups or activities. A bond may be registered in the title of the principal or other officer of a public, private, or parochial school holding funds in trust for a student body fund or for a class, group, or activity. If the amount purchased for any one fund does not exceed $2,500 (face amount), no reference need be made to a trust instrument. Examples:
Funds of school groups or activities.
A bond may be registered in the title of the principal or other officer of a public, private, or parochial school holding funds in trust for a student body fund or for a class, group, or activity. If the amount purchased for any one fund does not exceed $2,500 (face amount), no reference need be made to a trust instrument. Examples:
Principal, Western High School, in trust for the Class of 1980 Library Fund, 12-3456789.
Director of Athletics, Western High School, in trust for Student Activities Association, under resolution adopted 5/12/80, 12-3456789.
(10) Public corporations, bodies, or officers as trustees. A bond may be registered in the name of a public corporation or a public body, or in the title of a public officer, acting as trustee under express authority of law, followed by an appropriate reference to the statute creating the trust. Examples:
Public corporations, bodies, or officers as trustees.
A bond may be registered in the name of a public corporation or a public body, or in the title of a public officer, acting as trustee under express authority of law, followed by an appropriate reference to the statute creating the trust. Examples:
Rhode Island Investment Commission, trustee of the General Sinking Fund under Title 35, Ch. 8, Gen. Laws of Rhode Island.
Superintendent of the Austin State Hospital Annex, in trust for the Benefit Fund under Article 3183C, Vernon's Civ. Stat. of Texas Ann.
(c) Private organizations (corporations, associations, partnerships)—(1) General. A bond may be registered in the name of any private organization in its own right. The full legal name of the organization as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other authority from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration and may be followed by a parenthetical reference to a particular account other than a trust account.
Private organizations (corporations, associations, partnerships)
—(1)
General.
A bond may be registered in the name of any private organization in its own right. The full legal name of the organization as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other authority from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration and may be followed by a parenthetical reference to a particular account other than a trust account.
(2) Corporations. A bond may be registered in the name of a business, fraternal, religious, non-profit, or other private corporation. The words “a corporation” must be included in he registration unless the fact of incorporation is shown in the name. Examples:
Corporations.
A bond may be registered in the name of a business, fraternal, religious, non-profit, or other private corporation. The words “a corporation” must be included in he registration unless the fact of incorporation is shown in the name. Examples:
Smith Manufacturing Company, a corporation, 12-3456789.
Green and Redd, Inc., 12-3456789 (Depreciation Acct.)
(3) Unincorporated associations. A bond may be registered in the name of a club, lodge, society, or a similar self-governing association which is unincorporated. The words “an unincorporated association” must be included in the registration. This form of registration must not be used for a trust fund, board of trustees, a partnership, or a sole proprietorship. If the association is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization, the name or designation of the subordinate or local organization must be given first, followed by the name of the parent organization. The name of the parent organization may be placed in parentheses and, if well known, may be abbreviated. Examples:
Unincorporated associations.
A bond may be registered in the name of a club, lodge, society, or a similar self-governing association which is unincorporated. The words “an unincorporated association” must be included in the registration. This form of registration must not be used for a trust fund, board of trustees, a partnership, or a sole proprietorship. If the association is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization, the name or designation of the subordinate or local organization must be given first, followed by the name of the parent organization. The name of the parent organization may be placed in parentheses and, if well known, may be abbreviated. Examples:
The Lotus Club, an unincorporated association, 12-3456789.
Local 447, Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, an unincorporated association, 12-3456789.
Eureka Lodge 317 (A.F. and A.M.), an unincorporated association, 12-3456789.
(4) Partnerships. A bond may be registered in the name of a partnership. The words “a partnership” must be included in the registration. Examples:
Partnerships.
A bond may be registered in the name of a partnership. The words “a partnership” must be included in the registration. Examples:
Smith & Jones, a partnership, 12-3456789.
Acme Novelty Company, a partnership, 12-3456789.
(5) Sole Proprietorships. A bond may be registered in the name of an individual who is doing business as a sole proprietor. A reference may be made to the trade name under which the business is conducted. Example:
Sole Proprietorships.
A bond may be registered in the name of an individual who is doing business as a sole proprietor. A reference may be made to the trade name under which the business is conducted. Example:
John Jones DBA Jones Roofing Company 123-45-6789.
(d) Institutions (churches, hospitals, homes, schools, etc.). A bond may be registered in the name of a church, hospital, home, school, or similar institution conducted by a private organization or by private trustees, regardless of the manner in which it is organized or governed or title to its property is held. Descriptive words, such as “a corporation” or “an unincorporated association”, must not be included in the registration. Examples:
Institutions (churches, hospitals, homes, schools, etc.).
A bond may be registered in the name of a church, hospital, home, school, or similar institution conducted by a private organization or by private trustees, regardless of the manner in which it is organized or governed or title to its property is held. Descriptive words, such as “a corporation” or “an unincorporated association”, must not be included in the registration. Examples:
Shriners' Hospital for Crippled Children, St. Louis, MO, 12-3456789.
St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, Albany, NY, 12-3456789.
Rodeph Shalom Sunday School, Philadelphia, PA, 12-3456789.
(e) States, public bodies and corporations, and public officers. A bond may be registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, school district, or other political entity, public body, or corporation established by law (including a board, commission, administration, authority, or agency) which is the owner or official custodian of public funds, other than trust funds, or in the full legal title of the public officer having custody of the funds. Examples:
States, public bodies and corporations, and public officers.
A bond may be registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, school district, or other political entity, public body, or corporation established by law (including a board, commission, administration, authority, or agency) which is the owner or official custodian of public funds, other than trust funds, or in the full legal title of the public officer having custody of the funds. Examples:
State of Maine.
Town of Rye, NY (Street Improvement Fund).
Maryland State Highway Administration.
Treasurer, City of Chicago.
(f) The United States Treasury. A person who desires to have a bond become the property of the United States upon his or her death may designate the United States Treasury as coowner or beneficiary. Examples:
The United States Treasury.
A person who desires to have a bond become the property of the United States upon his or her death may designate the United States Treasury as coowner or beneficiary. Examples:
George T. Jones 123-45-6789 or the United States Treasury.
George T. Jones 123-45-6789 P.O.D. the United States Treasury.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006]]

§ 353.8   Chain letters prohibited.

The issuance of bonds in the furtherance of a chain letter or pyramid scheme is considered to be against the public interest and is prohibited.

Subpart C—Limitations on Annual Purchases


§ 353.10   Amounts which may be purchased.

The amount of savings bonds of Series EE and HH which may be purchased and held, in the name of any one person in any one calendar year, is computed according to the provisions of § 353.11 and is limited as follows:
(a) Series EE—(1) General annual limitation. $5,000 (principal amount).
Series EE
—(1)
General annual limitation.
$5,000 (principal amount).
(2) Special limitation. $4,000 (face amount) multiplied by the highest number of employees participating in an eligible employee plan, as defined in § 353.13, at any time during the calendar year in which the bonds are issued.
Special limitation.
$4,000 (face amount) multiplied by the highest number of employees participating in an eligible employee plan, as defined in § 353.13, at any time during the calendar year in which the bonds are issued.
(b) Series HH—(1) General annual limitation. $20,000 (face amount).
Series HH
—(1)
General annual limitation.
$20,000 (face amount).
(2) Special limitation. $200,000 (face amount) for bonds received in a calendar year as gifts by an organization which at the time of purchase was an exempt organization under the terms of 26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1.
Special limitation.
$200,000 (face amount) for bonds received in a calendar year as gifts by an organization which at the time of purchase was an exempt organization under the terms of 26 CFR 1.501(c)(3)-1.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 68 FR 24805, May 8, 2003; 72 FR 67853, Dec. 3, 2007]]

§ 353.11   Computation of amount.

(a) General. The purchases of bonds in the name of any person in an individual capacity are computed separately from purchases in a fiduciary capacity. A pension or retirement fund, or an investment, insurance, annuity, or similar fund or trust is regarded as an entity, regardless of the number of beneficiaries or the manner in which their shares or interests are established, determined, or segregated.
General.
The purchases of bonds in the name of any person in an individual capacity are computed separately from purchases in a fiduciary capacity. A pension or retirement fund, or an investment, insurance, annuity, or similar fund or trust is regarded as an entity, regardless of the number of beneficiaries or the manner in which their shares or interests are established, determined, or segregated.
(b) Bonds included in computation. In computing the purchases for each person, the following outstanding bonds are included:
Bonds included in computation.
In computing the purchases for each person, the following outstanding bonds are included:
(1) All bonds registered in the name of that person alone;
(2) All bonds registered in the name of the representative of the estate of that person; and
(3) All bonds registered in the name of that person as first-named coowner.
(c) Bonds excluded from computation. In computing the purchases for each person, the following are excluded:
Bonds excluded from computation.
In computing the purchases for each person, the following are excluded:
(1) Bonds on which that person is named beneficiary;
(2) Bonds to which that person has become entitled—
(i) Under § 353.70 as surviving beneficiary upon the death of the registered owner;
(ii) As an heir or a legatee of the deceased owner;
(iii) By virtue of the termination of a trust or the happening of a similar event;
(3) Bonds issued in an authorized exchange or reinvestment; and
(4) Bonds that are purchased and redeemed within the same calendar year.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 68 FR 24805, May 8, 2003]]

§ 353.12   Disposition of excess.

If any person at any time has savings bonds issued during any one calendar year in excess of the prescribed amount, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service reserves the right to take any action that it deems necessary to adjust the excess. Instructions for adjustment of the excess can be obtained by email at savbonds@bpd.treas.gov or by writing to Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
savbonds@bpd.treas.gov
or by writing to Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
[[68 FR 24805, May 8, 2003]]

§ 353.13   Employee plans—Conditions of eligibility.

(a) Definition of plan. Employee thrift, savings, vacation and similar plans are contributory plans established by the employer for the exclusive and irrevocable benefit of its employees or their beneficiaries. Each plan must afford employees the means of making regular savings from their wages through payroll deductions and provide for employer contributions to be added to these savings.
Definition of plan.
Employee thrift, savings, vacation and similar plans are contributory plans established by the employer for the exclusive and irrevocable benefit of its employees or their beneficiaries. Each plan must afford employees the means of making regular savings from their wages through payroll deductions and provide for employer contributions to be added to these savings.
(b) Definition of terms used in this section. (1) The term assets means all the employees' contributions and assets purchased with them and the employer's contributions and assets purchased with them, as well as accretions, such as dividends on stock, the increment in value on bonds and all other income; but, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the right to demand and receive all assets credited to the account of an employee shall not be construed to require the distribution of assets in kind when it would not be possible or practicable to make such a distribution; for example, Series EE bonds may not be reissued in unauthorized denominations.
Definition of terms used in this section.
(1) The term
assets
means all the employees' contributions and assets purchased with them and the employer's contributions and assets purchased with them, as well as accretions, such as dividends on stock, the increment in value on bonds and all other income; but, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the right to demand and receive
all assets
credited to the account of an employee shall not be construed to require the distribution of assets in kind when it would not be possible or practicable to make such a distribution; for example, Series EE bonds may not be reissued in unauthorized denominations.
(2) The word beneficiary means: (i) The person or persons, if any, designated by the employee in accordance with the terms of the plan to receive the benefits of the plan upon the employee's death or (ii) the estate of the employee.
beneficiary
means: (i) The person or persons, if any, designated by the employee in accordance with the terms of the plan to receive the benefits of the plan upon the employee's death or (ii) the estate of the employee.
(c) Conditions of eligibility. An employee plan must conform to the following rules in order to be eligible for the special limitation provided in § 353.10.
Conditions of eligibility.
An employee plan must conform to the following rules in order to be eligible for the special limitation provided in § 353.10.
(1) Crediting of assets. All assets of a plan must be credited to the individual accounts of participating employees and may be distributed only to them or their beneficiaries, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
Crediting of assets.
All assets of a plan must be credited to the individual accounts of participating employees and may be distributed only to them or their beneficiaries, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2) Purchase of bonds. Bonds may be purchased only with assets credited to the accounts of participating employees and only if the amount taken from any account at any time for that purpose is equal to the purchase price of a bond or bonds in an authorized denomination or denominations, and shares in the bonds are credited to the accounts of the individuals from which the purchase price was derived, in amounts corresponding with their shares. For example, if $50 credited to the account of John Jones is commingled with funds credited to the accounts of other employees to make a total of $5,000 with which a Series EE bond in the denomination of $10,000 (face amount) is purchased in December 1980 and registered in the name and title of the trustee, the plan must provide, in effect, that John Jones' account be credited to show that he is the owner of a Series EE bond in the denomination of $100 (face amount) bearing an issue date of December 1, 1980.
Purchase of bonds.
Bonds may be purchased only with assets credited to the accounts of participating employees and only if the amount taken from any account at any time for that purpose is equal to the purchase price of a bond or bonds in an authorized denomination or denominations, and shares in the bonds are credited to the accounts of the individuals from which the purchase price was derived, in amounts corresponding with their shares. For example, if $50 credited to the account of John Jones is commingled with funds credited to the accounts of other employees to make a total of $5,000 with which a Series EE bond in the denomination of $10,000 (face amount) is purchased in December 1980 and registered in the name and title of the trustee, the plan must provide, in effect, that John Jones' account be credited to show that he is the owner of a Series EE bond in the denomination of $100 (face amount) bearing an issue date of December 1, 1980.
(3) Irrevocable right of withdrawal. Each participating employee has an irrevocable right to request and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the employee's account (or their value, if the employee prefers) without regard to any conditions other than the loss or suspension of the privilege of participating further in the plan. A plan may limit or modify such right in any manner required for qualification of the plan under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended (26 U.S.C. section 401).
Irrevocable right of withdrawal.
Each participating employee has an irrevocable right to request and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the employee's account (or their value, if the employee prefers) without regard to any conditions other than the loss or suspension of the privilege of participating further in the plan. A plan may limit or modify such right in any manner required for qualification of the plan under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended (26 U.S.C. section 401).
(4) Rights of beneficiary. Upon the death of an employee, his or her beneficiary shall have the absolute and unconditional right to demand and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the account of the employee or their value, if he or she so prefers.
Rights of beneficiary.
Upon the death of an employee, his or her beneficiary shall have the absolute and unconditional right to demand and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the account of the employee or their value, if he or she so prefers.
(5) Reissue or payment upon distribution. When settlement is made with an employee or his or her beneficiary with respect to any bond registered in the name and title of the plan trustee in which the employee has a share, the bond must be paid or reissued to the extent of the share. If an employee or the beneficiary is to receive distribution in kind, bonds bearing the same issue dates as those credited to the employee's account will be reissued in the name of the employee or the employee's beneficiary to the extent entitled, in authorized denominations, in any authorized form of registration, upon the request and certification of the trustee.
Reissue or payment upon distribution.
When settlement is made with an employee or his or her beneficiary with respect to any bond registered in the name and title of the plan trustee in which the employee has a share, the bond must be paid or reissued to the extent of the share. If an employee or the beneficiary is to receive distribution in kind, bonds bearing the same issue dates as those credited to the employee's account will be reissued in the name of the employee or the employee's beneficiary to the extent entitled, in authorized denominations, in any authorized form of registration, upon the request and certification of the trustee.
(d) Application for special limitation. A trustee of an employee plan who desires to purchase bonds under the special limitation should submit to the designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch a copy of:
Application for special limitation.
A trustee of an employee plan who desires to purchase bonds under the special limitation should submit to the designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch a copy of:
(1) The plan, (2) any instructions issued under the plan that concern Series EE bonds, and (3) the trust agreement, in order to establish the plan's eligibility.
(e) Vacation plans. Savings bonds may be purchased under certain vacation plans. Questions concerning the eligibility of these plans to purchase bonds in excess of the general limitation should be addressed to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
Vacation plans.
Savings bonds may be purchased under certain vacation plans. Questions concerning the eligibility of these plans to purchase bonds in excess of the general limitation should be addressed to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
(31 U.S.C. 3105 and 3121)
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 55458, Dec. 13, 1983; 59 FR 10541, Mar. 4, 1994; 63 FR 64551, Nov. 20, 1998]]

Subpart D—Limitations on Transfer or Pledge


§ 353.15   Transfer.

Savings bonds are not transferable and are payable only to the owners named on the bonds, except as specifically provided in these regulations and then only in the manner and to the extent so provided.

§ 353.16   Pledge.

A savings bond may not be hypothecated, pledged, or used as security for the performance of an obligation.

Subpart E—Judicial Proceedings


§ 353.20   General.

(a) The Department of the Treasury will not recognize a judicial determination that gives effect to an attempted voluntary transfer inter vivos of a bond, or a judicial determination that impairs the rights of survivorship conferred by these regulations upon a coowner or beneficiary. All provisions of this subpart are subject to these restrictions.
(b) The Department of the Treasury will recognize a claim against an owner of a savings bond and conflicting claims of ownership of, or interest in, a bond between coowners or between the registered owner and the beneficiary, if established by valid, judicial proceedings specifically listed in this subpart. Escheat proceedings will not be recognized under this subpart. Section 353.23 specifies evidence required to establish the validity of judicial proceedings. Treasury may require any other evidence to establish the validity of judicial proceedings, such as evidence that the proceeding provided due process, complied with this part, and complied with relevant state law.
(c) The Department of the Treasury and the agencies that issue, reissue, or redeem savings bonds will not accept a notice of an adverse claim or notice of pending judicial proceedings, nor undertake to protect the interests of a litigant not in possession of a savings bond.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 80 FR 80264, Dec. 24, 2015]]

§ 353.21   Payment to judgment creditors.

(a) Purchaser or officer under levy. The Department of the Treasury will pay (but not reissue) a savings bond to the purchaser at a sale under a levy or to the officer authorized under appropriate process to levy upon property of the registered owner or coowner to satisfy a money judgment. Payment will be made only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment. The amount paid is limited to the redemption value 60 days after the termination of the judicial proceedings. Except in a case of a levy by the Internal Revenue Service, payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to a judgment or a levy against only one coowner is limited to the extent of that coowner's interest in the bond. That interest must be established by an agreement between the coowners by judgment, decree, or order of a court in a proceeding to which both coowners are parties. Payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to levy by the Internal Revenue Service will be made if the levy is against either coowner on the bond.
Purchaser or officer under levy.
The Department of the Treasury will pay (but not reissue) a savings bond to the purchaser at a sale under a levy or to the officer authorized under appropriate process to levy upon property of the registered owner or coowner to satisfy a money judgment. Payment will be made only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment. The amount paid is limited to the redemption value 60 days after the termination of the judicial proceedings. Except in a case of a levy by the Internal Revenue Service, payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to a judgment or a levy against only one coowner is limited to the extent of that coowner's interest in the bond. That interest must be established by an agreement between the coowners by judgment, decree, or order of a court in a proceeding to which both coowners are parties. Payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to levy by the Internal Revenue Service will be made if the levy is against either coowner on the bond.
(b) Trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, or similar court officer. The Department of the Treasury will pay, at current redemption value, a savings bond to a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
Trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, or similar court officer.
The Department of the Treasury will pay, at current redemption value, a savings bond to a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 63 FR 64551, Nov. 20, 1998]]

§ 353.22   Payment or reissue pursuant to judgment.

(a) Divorce. The Department of the Treasury will recognize a divorce decree that ratifies or confirms a property settlement agreement disposing of bonds or that otherwise settles the interests of the parties in a bond. Reissue of a savings bond may be made to eliminate the name of one spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary or to substitute the name of one spouse for that of the other spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary pursuant to the decree. However, if the bond is registered in the name of one spouse with another person as coowner, there must be submitted either:
Divorce.
The Department of the Treasury will recognize a divorce decree that ratifies or confirms a property settlement agreement disposing of bonds or that otherwise settles the interests of the parties in a bond. Reissue of a savings bond may be made to eliminate the name of one spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary or to substitute the name of one spouse for that of the other spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary pursuant to the decree. However, if the bond is registered in the name of one spouse with another person as coowner, there must be submitted either:
(1) A request for reissue by the other person or (2) a certified copy of a judgment, decree, or court order entered in proceedings to which the other person and the spouse named on the bond are parties, determining the extent of the interest of that spouse in the bond. Reissue will be permitted only to the extent of that spouse's interest. The evidence required under § 353.23 must be submitted in every case. When the divorce decree does not set out the terms of the property settlement agreement, a certified copy of the agreement must be submitted. Payment, rather than reissue, will be made if requested.
(b) Gift causa mortis. A savings bond belonging solely to one individual will be paid or reissued at the request of the person found by a court to be entitled by reason of a gift causa mortis from the sole owner.
Gift causa mortis.
A savings bond belonging solely to one individual will be paid or reissued at the request of the person found by a court to be entitled by reason of a gift causa mortis from the sole owner.
(c) Date for determining rights. When payment or reissue under this section is to be made, the rights of the parties will be those existing under the regulations current at the time of the entry of the final judgment, decree, or court order.
Date for determining rights.
When payment or reissue under this section is to be made, the rights of the parties will be those existing under the regulations current at the time of the entry of the final judgment, decree, or court order.

§ 353.23   Evidence.

(a) General. To establish the validity of judicial proceedings, certified copies of the final judgment, decree, or court order, and of any necessary supplementary proceedings, must be submitted. If the judgment, decree, or court order was rendered more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond, there must also be submitted a certification from the clerk of the court, under court seal, dated within six months of the presentation of the bond, showing that the judgment, decree, or court order is in full force.
General.
To establish the validity of judicial proceedings, certified copies of the final judgment, decree, or court order, and of any necessary supplementary proceedings, must be submitted. If the judgment, decree, or court order was rendered more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond, there must also be submitted a certification from the clerk of the court, under court seal, dated within six months of the presentation of the bond, showing that the judgment, decree, or court order is in full force.
(b) Trustee in bankruptcy or receiver of an insolvent's estate. A request for payment by a trustee in bankruptcy or a receiver of an insolvent's estate must be supported by appropriate evidence of appointment and qualification. The evidence must be certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
Trustee in bankruptcy or receiver of an insolvent's estate.
A request for payment by a trustee in bankruptcy or a receiver of an insolvent's estate must be supported by appropriate evidence of appointment and qualification. The evidence must be certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
(c) Receiver in equity or similar court officer. A request for payment by a receiver in equity or a similar court officer, other than a receiver of an insolvent's estate, must be supported by a copy of an order that authorizes the presentation of the bond for redemption, certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
Receiver in equity or similar court officer.
A request for payment by a receiver in equity or a similar court officer, other than a receiver of an insolvent's estate, must be supported by a copy of an order that authorizes the presentation of the bond for redemption, certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.

§ 353.24   Payment pursuant to judicial or administrative forfeiture.

(a) Definitions. As used in this part:
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1) Contact point means the individual designated to receive referrals from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, as provided for in this section, by the Federal investigative agency, United States Attorney's Office, or forfeiting agency specified in Fiscal Service Form 1522.
Contact point
means the individual designated to receive referrals from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, as provided for in this section, by the Federal investigative agency, United States Attorney's Office, or forfeiting agency specified in Fiscal Service Form 1522.
(2) Forfeiting agency means the federal law enforcement agency responsible for the forfeiture.
Forfeiting agency
means the federal law enforcement agency responsible for the forfeiture.
(3) Forfeiture—(i) Administrative forfeiture means the process by which property may be forfeited by a Federal agency rather than through judicial proceedings.
Forfeiture
—(i)
Administrative forfeiture
means the process by which property may be forfeited by a Federal agency rather than through judicial proceedings.
(ii) Judicial forfeiture means either a civil or a criminal proceeding in a United States District Court that may result in a final judgment and order of forfeiture.
Judicial forfeiture
means either a civil or a criminal proceeding in a United States District Court that may result in a final judgment and order of forfeiture.
(4) Fiscal Service Form 1522 means the written notification of the forfeiture provided by the forfeiting agency to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service on a Fiscal Service Form 1522 Special Form of Request for Payment of United States Savings and Retirement Securities Where Use of a Detached Request Is Authorized. Fiscal Service Form 1522 must specify: the contact point; the issue date of each bond; the serial number for each bond; the date of forfeiture; the forfeiture fund to which payment is to be made; and be signed by an individual authorized by the forfeiting agency. The forfeited bonds and the completed Fiscal Service Form 1522 are to be mailed to the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
Fiscal Service Form 1522
means the written notification of the forfeiture provided by the forfeiting agency to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service on a Fiscal Service Form 1522 Special Form of Request for Payment of United States Savings and Retirement Securities Where Use of a Detached Request Is Authorized. Fiscal Service Form 1522 must specify: the contact point; the issue date of each bond; the serial number for each bond; the date of forfeiture; the forfeiture fund to which payment is to be made; and be signed by an individual authorized by the forfeiting agency. The forfeited bonds and the completed Fiscal Service Form 1522 are to be mailed to the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
(b) Forfeiture of bond. (1) Upon receipt and review of the Fiscal Service Form 1522, as described in (a)(4) above, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will make payment to the forfeiture fund specified on the form.
Forfeiture of bond.
(1) Upon receipt and review of the Fiscal Service Form 1522, as described in (a)(4) above, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will make payment to the forfeiture fund specified on the form.
(2) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will record the forfeiture, the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were paid, the contact point, and any related information.
(3) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will rely exclusively upon the information provided by the Federal agency in the Fiscal Service Form 1522 and will not make any independent evaluation of the validity of the forfeiture order, the request for payment, or the authority of the individual signing the request for payment.
(4) The amount paid is limited to the redemption value of the savings bonds as of the date of forfeiture specified in the Fiscal Service Form 1522.
(c) Inquiry from previous owner. (1) Upon payment made pursuant to (b), all inquiries from the previous owner, including requests for payment, reissue, or applications for relief, related to forfeited savings bonds will be referred by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to the contact point named in the Fiscal Service Form 1522.
Inquiry from previous owner.
(1) Upon payment made pursuant to (b), all inquiries from the previous owner, including requests for payment, reissue, or applications for relief, related to forfeited savings bonds will be referred by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to the contact point named in the Fiscal Service Form 1522.
(2) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will notify the submitter of the inquiry of the referral to the contact point.
(3) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will not investigate the inquiry and will defer to the forfeiting agency's determination of the appropriate course of action, including settlement where appropriate. Any settlement will be paid from the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were deposited.
[[61 FR 53822, Oct. 15, 1996]]

Subpart F—Relief for Loss, Theft, Destruction, Mutilation, Defacement, or Nonreceipt of Bonds


§ 353.25   General.

Relief, by the issue of a substitute bond or by payment, is authorized for the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of a bond after receipt by the owner or his or her representative. As a condition for granting relief, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may require a bond of indemnity, in the form, and with the surety, or security, he considers necessary to protect the interests of the United States. In all cases the savings bond must be identified by serial number and the applicant must submit satisfactory evidence of the loss, theft, or destruction, or a satisfactory explanation of the mutilation or defacement.

§ 353.26   Application for relief—After receipt of bond.

(a) If the serial numbers of the lost, stolen, or destroyed bonds are known, the claimant should execute an application for relief on the appropriate form and submit it to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101.
(b) If the bond serial number is not known, the claimant must provide sufficient information to enable the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to identify the bond by serial number. See § 353.29(c). The Bureau will furnish the proper application form and instructions.
(c) If applicable, a defaced bond and all available fragments of a mutilated bond should be submitted to the Bureau.
(d) The application must be made by the person or persons (including both coowners, if living) authorized under these regulations to request payment of the bond. In addition:
(1) If the bond is in beneficiary form and the owner and beneficiary are both living, both will ordinarily be required to join in the application.
(2) If a minor named on a bond as owner, coowner, or beneficiary is not of sufficient competency and understanding to request payment, both parents will ordinarily be required to join in the application.
(e) If the application is approved on or before February 14, 2014, relief will be granted either by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment. If the application is approved after February 14, 2014, relief for Series HH bonds will be granted either by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment, and relief for Series EE bonds will be granted either by the issuance of a book-entry bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 79 FR 8859, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 353.27   Application for relief—Non-receipt of bond.

If a bond issued on any transaction is not received, the issuing agent must be notified as promptly as possible and given all information about the non-receipt. An appropriate form and instructions will be provided. If the application is approved on or before February 14, 2014, relief will be granted by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond that was not received. If the application is approved after February 14, 2014, relief for Series HH bonds will be granted by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond that was not received, and relief for Series EE bonds will be granted either by the issuance of a book-entry bond bearing the same issue date as the bond that was not received or by payment. Also, relief is authorized for the issuance of bonds for which the Secretary has not received payment, in order to preserve public confidence in dealing with issuing agents.
[[79 FR 8859, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 353.28   Recovery or receipt of bond before or after relief is granted.

(a) If a bond reported lost, stolen, destroyed, or not received, is recovered or received before relief is granted, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101, must be notified promptly.
(b) A bond for which relief has been granted is the property of the United States and, if recovered, must be promptly submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101, for cancellation.

§ 353.29   Adjudication of claims.

(a) General. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will adjudicate claims for lost, stolen or destroyed bonds on the basis of records created and regularly maintained in the ordinary course of business.
General.
The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will adjudicate claims for lost, stolen or destroyed bonds on the basis of records created and regularly maintained in the ordinary course of business.
(b) Claims filed 10 years after payment. A bond for which no claim has been filed within 10 years of the recorded date of redemption will be presumed to have been properly paid. If a claim is subsequently filed, a photographic copy of the bond will not be available to support the disallowance.
Claims filed 10 years after payment.
A bond for which no claim has been filed within 10 years of the recorded date of redemption will be presumed to have been properly paid. If a claim is subsequently filed, a photographic copy of the bond will not be available to support the disallowance.
(c) Claims filed six years after final maturity. No claim filed six years or more after the final maturity of a savings bond will be entertained unless the claimant supplies the serial number of the bond.
Claims filed six years after final maturity.
No claim filed six years or more after the final maturity of a savings bond will be entertained unless the claimant supplies the serial number of the bond.

Subpart G—Interest


§ 353.30   Series EE bonds.

Definitive Series EE bonds were issued at a discount. The accrued interest is added to the issue price at stated intervals and is payable only at redemption as part of the redemption value. Information regarding interest rates and redemption values is found in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 1-80 (31 CFR part 351).
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 353.31   Series HH bonds.

(a) General. Series HH bonds are current income bonds issued at par (face amount). Interest on a Series HH bond is paid semiannually beginning six months from the issue date. Interest ceases at final maturity, or, if the bond is redeemed prior to final maturity, as of the end of the interest period last preceding the date of redemption. For example, if a bond on which interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 is redeemed on September 1, interest ceases as of the preceding July 1, and no interest will be paid for the period from July 1 to September 1. However, if the redemption date falls on an interest payment date, interest ceases on that date. Information regarding interest rates is found in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-80, current revision (31 CFR part 352).
General.
Series HH bonds are current income bonds issued at par (face amount). Interest on a Series HH bond is paid semiannually beginning six months from the issue date. Interest ceases at final maturity, or, if the bond is redeemed prior to final maturity, as of the end of the interest period last preceding the date of redemption. For example, if a bond on which interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 is redeemed on September 1, interest ceases as of the preceding July 1, and no interest will be paid for the period from July 1 to September 1. However, if the redemption date falls on an interest payment date, interest ceases on that date. Information regarding interest rates is found in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-80, current revision (31 CFR part 352).
(b) Payment of interest. Series HH bond interest accounts are maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV. Interest on bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989 will be paid on each interest due date by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) method to the owner or coowner's account at a financial institution, unless the Bureau determines that extraordinary circumstances warrant payment by check or other means. Interest on bonds issued prior to October 1, 1989, is payable by check drawn to the order of the owner or both coowners or, upon request, by the ACH method to the owner or coowner's account at a financial institution. Checks will be mailed to the delivery address provided to the Bureau. Deposit account information for ACH payments shall be provided on the form designated by the Bureau. Series H interest payments made by the ACH method are governed by the regulations at 31 CFR part 370.
Payment of interest.
Series HH bond interest accounts are maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV. Interest on bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989 will be paid on each interest due date by the Automated Clearing House (ACH) method to the owner or coowner's account at a financial institution, unless the Bureau determines that extraordinary circumstances warrant payment by check or other means. Interest on bonds issued prior to October 1, 1989, is payable by check drawn to the order of the owner or both coowners or, upon request, by the ACH method to the owner or coowner's account at a financial institution. Checks will be mailed to the delivery address provided to the Bureau. Deposit account information for ACH payments shall be provided on the form designated by the Bureau. Series H interest payments made by the ACH method are governed by the regulations at 31 CFR part 370.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0094)
(c) Delivery of interest. Notices affecting the delivery of interest payments. To ensure appropriate action, notices affecting the delivery of interest payments on Series HH bonds must be received by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102-1328, at least one month prior to the interest payment date. Each notice must include the owner or coowner's name and the taxpayer identifying number appearing on the account under which records of the bonds are maintained.
Delivery of interest.
Notices affecting the delivery of interest payments. To ensure appropriate action, notices affecting the delivery of interest payments on Series HH bonds must be received by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102-1328, at least one month prior to the interest payment date. Each notice must include the owner or coowner's name and the taxpayer identifying number appearing on the account under which records of the bonds are maintained.
(d) Reissue during interest period. Physical reissue of a Series HH bond may be made without regard to interest payment dates. The Series HH interest accounts maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will be closed in the first week of the month preceding each interest payment date, and payments will be made pursuant to the information contained in the accounts as of the date they are closed.
Reissue during interest period.
Physical reissue of a Series HH bond may be made without regard to interest payment dates. The Series HH interest accounts maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will be closed in the first week of the month preceding each interest payment date, and payments will be made pursuant to the information contained in the accounts as of the date they are closed.
(e) Endorsement of checks. Interest checks must be endorsed in accordance with the regulations governing the payment of fiscal agency checks, as contained in 31 CFR part 355.
Endorsement of checks.
Interest checks must be endorsed in accordance with the regulations governing the payment of fiscal agency checks, as contained in 31 CFR part 355.
(f) Payment of interest by the ACH method—(1) Submission of deposit account information. Payments on all Series HH bonds assigned to the same account maintained by the Bureau must be made to the same deposit account at a financial institution.
Payment of interest by the ACH method
—(1)
Submission of deposit account information.
Payments on all Series HH bonds assigned to the same account maintained by the Bureau must be made to the same deposit account at a financial institution.
(2) Deposit account held by individuals in their own right. Where the Series HH bonds are registered in the name of individual(s) as sole owner, or as owner and beneficiary, and the deposit account at the financial institution is held in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the owner's name must appear on the deposit account. Where the bonds are registered in the names of two individuals as coowners and the deposit account is held in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the registration of the bonds and the title of the account must contain at least one name that is common to both. The deposit account to which the interest payments are directed should preferably be established in a form identical to the registration of the bonds to ensure that rights of ownership and survivorship can be more easily identified and preserved. Neither the United States nor any Federal Reserve Bank shall be liable for any loss sustained because the interest of the holder(s) of a deposit account to which payments are made are not the same as the owner(s) of the bonds.
Deposit account held by individuals in their own right.
Where the Series HH bonds are registered in the name of individual(s) as sole owner, or as owner and beneficiary, and the deposit account at the financial institution is held in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the owner's name must appear on the deposit account. Where the bonds are registered in the names of two individuals as coowners and the deposit account is held in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the registration of the bonds and the title of the account must contain at least one name that is common to both. The deposit account to which the interest payments are directed should preferably be established in a form identical to the registration of the bonds to ensure that rights of ownership and survivorship can be more easily identified and preserved. Neither the United States nor any Federal Reserve Bank shall be liable for any loss sustained because the interest of the holder(s) of a deposit account to which payments are made are not the same as the owner(s) of the bonds.
(3) Deposit account held by organization. Where the deposit account to which interest payments are to be directed is held in the name of the financial institution itself acting as sole trustee, or as co-trustee, or is the name of a commercially-managed investment fund, the owner or coowner should inquire whether the financial institution is able to receive ACH payments; if not, the owner or coowner should make alternative arrangements.
Deposit account held by organization.
Where the deposit account to which interest payments are to be directed is held in the name of the financial institution itself acting as sole trustee, or as co-trustee, or is the name of a commercially-managed investment fund, the owner or coowner should inquire whether the financial institution is able to receive ACH payments; if not, the owner or coowner should make alternative arrangements.
(4) Financial institution cannot accept ACH payments. If after submission of deposit account information, it is determined that ACH payments cannot be accepted by the designated financial institution, pending receipt of new deposit account information, payment will be made by check drawn to the registered owner or both coowners and mailed to the address of record.
Financial institution cannot accept ACH payments.
If after submission of deposit account information, it is determined that ACH payments cannot be accepted by the designated financial institution, pending receipt of new deposit account information, payment will be made by check drawn to the registered owner or both coowners and mailed to the address of record.
(5) Cancellation of ACH arrangement. (i) Bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989. As set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and in the Series HH offering contained in Circular No. 2-80, interest on Series HH bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989, will be paid by the ACH method. In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, a request to discontinue payment by the ACH method in favor of payment by check will not be accepted.
Cancellation of ACH arrangement.
(i) Bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989. As set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and in the Series HH offering contained in Circular No. 2-80, interest on Series HH bonds issued on or after October 1, 1989, will be paid by the ACH method. In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, a request to discontinue payment by the ACH method in favor of payment by check will not be accepted.
(ii) Bonds issued prior to October 1, 1989. An ACH arrangement established for Series HH bonds issued prior to October 1, 1989, shall remain in effect until it is terminated by a request from the owner or coowner submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102-1328.
(6) Rules. Series HH interest payments made by the ACH method are governed by the regulations at 31 CFR part 370.
Rules.
Series HH interest payments made by the ACH method are governed by the regulations at 31 CFR part 370.
(7) Nonreceipt or loss of interest payment. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102 should be notified if:
Nonreceipt or loss of interest payment.
The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26102 should be notified if:
(i) An interest check is not received or is lost after receipt or
(ii) An ACH payment is not credited to the designated account and the financial institution has no record of receiving it. The notice should include the owner or coowner's name and taxpayer identifying number and the interest payment date.
[[54 FR 40254, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 10541, Mar. 4, 1994; 64 FR 40487, July 26, 1999]]

Subpart H—General Provisions for Payment


§ 353.35   Payment (redemption).

(a) General. Payment of a savings bond will be made to the person or persons entitled under the provisions of these regulations, except that checks in payment will not be delivered to addresses in areas with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Payment will be made without regard to any notice of adverse claims to a bond and no stoppage or caveat against payment of a bond will be entered.
General.
Payment of a savings bond will be made to the person or persons entitled under the provisions of these regulations, except that checks in payment will not be delivered to addresses in areas with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Payment will be made without regard to any notice of adverse claims to a bond and no stoppage or caveat against payment of a bond will be entered.
(b) A Series EE bond issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, will be paid at any time after 6 months from its issue date. A Series EE bond issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter, will be paid at any time after 12 months from its issue date. Bonds will be paid at the current redemption value shown in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 1-80 (31 CFR part 351).
(c) Series HH. A Series HH bond will be paid at any time after six months from issue date. A Series HH bond issued in an authorized exchange or reinvestment transaction will be paid at face value. A Series HH bond issued for cash will be paid at the current redemption value shown in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-80, Second Revision (31 CFR part 352). If the bond is redeemed at less than face value, the difference represents an adjustment of interest. In any case where Series HH bonds are surrendered to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328, for redemption in the month prior to an interest payment date, redemption will not be deferred but will be made in regular course, unless the presenter specifically requests that the transaction be delayed until that date. A request to defer redemption made more than one month preceding the interest payment date will not be accepted.
Series HH.
A Series HH bond will be paid at any time after six months from issue date. A Series HH bond issued in an authorized exchange or reinvestment transaction will be paid at face value. A Series HH bond issued for cash will be paid at the current redemption value shown in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 2-80, Second Revision (31 CFR part 352). If the bond is redeemed at less than face value, the difference represents an adjustment of interest. In any case where Series HH bonds are surrendered to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328, for redemption in the month prior to an interest payment date, redemption will not be deferred but will be made in regular course, unless the presenter specifically requests that the transaction be delayed until that date. A request to defer redemption made more than one month preceding the interest payment date will not be accepted.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 23754, July 1, 1986; 59 FR 10541, Mar. 4, 1994; 68 FR 2667, Jan. 17, 2003; 68 FR 7427, Feb. 14, 2003]]

§ 353.36   Payment during life of sole owner.

A savings bond registered in single ownership form (i.e., without a coowner or beneficiary) will be paid to the owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request.
i.e.
, without a coowner or beneficiary) will be paid to the owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request.

§ 353.37   Payment during lives of both coowners.

A savings bond registered in coownership form will be paid to either coowner upon surrender with an appropriate request, and upon payment (as determined in § 353.43), the other coowner will cease to have any interest in the bond. If both coowners request payment, payment will be made by check drawn in the form, “John A. Jones AND Mary C. Jones”.

§ 353.38   Payment during lifetime of owner of beneficiary bond.

A savings bond registered in beneficiary form will be paid to the registered owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request. Upon payment (as determined in § 353.43) the beneficiary will cease to have any interest in the bond.

§ 353.39   Surrender for payment.

(a) Procedure for bonds of Series EE, in the names of individual owners or coowners only. An individual who is the owner or coowner of a Series EE bond may present the bond to an authorized paying agent for redemption. The presenter must be prepared to establish his or her identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and identification guidelines. The owner or coowner must sign the request for payment on the bond or, if authorized, on a separate detached request, and add his or her address. If the request for payment has been signed, or signed and certified, before presentation of the bond, the paying agent must be satisfied that the person presenting the bond for payment is the owner or coowner and may require the person to sign the request for payment again. If the bond is in order for payment, the paying agent will make immediate payment at the current redemption value without charge to the presenter. Paying agents are not authorized to process any case involving partial redemption or any case in which supporting evidence is required.
Procedure for bonds of Series EE, in the names of individual owners or coowners only.
An individual who is the owner or coowner of a Series EE bond may present the bond to an authorized paying agent for redemption. The presenter must be prepared to establish his or her identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and identification guidelines. The owner or coowner must sign the request for payment on the bond or, if authorized, on a separate detached request, and add his or her address. If the request for payment has been signed, or signed and certified, before presentation of the bond, the paying agent must be satisfied that the person presenting the bond for payment is the owner or coowner and may require the person to sign the request for payment again. If the bond is in order for payment, the paying agent will make immediate payment at the current redemption value without charge to the presenter. Paying agents are not authorized to process any case involving partial redemption or any case in which supporting evidence is required.
(b) Procedure for all other cases. In the case of bonds to which the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section, does not apply, or if otherwise preferred, the owner or coowner, or other person entitled to payment, should appear before an officer authorized to certify requests for payment, establish his or her identity, sign the request for payment, and provide information as to the address to which the check in payment is to be mailed. The bond must be forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Usually, payment will be expedited by submission to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. In all cases, the cost and risk of presentation of a bond will be borne by the owner. Payment will be made by check drawn to the order of the registered owner or other person entitled and will be mailed to the address requested.
Procedure for all other cases.
In the case of bonds to which the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section, does not apply, or if otherwise preferred, the owner or coowner, or other person entitled to payment, should appear before an officer authorized to certify requests for payment, establish his or her identity, sign the request for payment, and provide information as to the address to which the check in payment is to be mailed. The bond must be forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Usually, payment will be expedited by submission to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. In all cases, the cost and risk of presentation of a bond will be borne by the owner. Payment will be made by check drawn to the order of the registered owner or other person entitled and will be mailed to the address requested.
(c) Date of request. Requests executed more than six months before the date of receipt of a bond for payment will not be accepted. Neither will a bond be accepted if payment is requested as of a date more than three months in the future.
Date of request.
Requests executed more than six months before the date of receipt of a bond for payment will not be accepted. Neither will a bond be accepted if payment is requested as of a date more than three months in the future.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 10541, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 353.40   Special provisions for payment.

(a) Owner's signature not required. A bond may be paid by a paying agent or a designated Federal Reserve Bank without the owner's signature to the request for payment, if the bond bears the special endorsement of a paying agent specifically qualified to place such an endorsement on savings bonds.
Owner's signature not required.
A bond may be paid by a paying agent or a designated Federal Reserve Bank without the owner's signature to the request for payment, if the bond bears the special endorsement of a paying agent specifically qualified to place such an endorsement on savings bonds.
(b) Signature by mark. A signature by mark (X) must be witnessed by at least one disinterested person and a certifying officer. See subpart J. The witness must attest to the signature by mark substantially as follows: “Witness to signature by mark”, followed by his or her signature and address.
Signature by mark.
A signature by mark (X) must be witnessed by at least one disinterested person and a certifying officer. See subpart J. The witness must attest to the signature by mark substantially as follows: “Witness to signature by mark”, followed by his or her signature and address.
(c) Name change. If the name of the owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment, as it appears in the registration or in evidence on file in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, has been changed in any legal manner, the signature to the request for payment must show both names and the manner in which the change was made; for example, “Mary T. Jones Smith (Mary T. J. Smith or Mary T. Smith) changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones”, or “John R. Young, changed by order of court from Hans R. Jung”. See § 353.50.
Name change.
If the name of the owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment, as it appears in the registration or in evidence on file in the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, has been changed in any legal manner, the signature to the request for payment must show both names and the manner in which the change was made; for example, “Mary T. Jones Smith (Mary T. J. Smith or Mary T. Smith) changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones”, or “John R. Young, changed by order of court from Hans R. Jung”. See § 353.50.
(d) Attorneys-in-fact. A request for payment, reinvestment, or exchange executed by an attorney-in-fact will be recognized if it is accompanied by a copy of the power of attorney which meets the following requirements:
Attorneys-in-fact.
A request for payment, reinvestment, or exchange executed by an attorney-in-fact will be recognized if it is accompanied by a copy of the power of attorney which meets the following requirements:
(1) The power of attorney must bear the grantor's signature, properly certified or notarized, in accordance with applicable State law;
(2) The power of attorney must grant, by its terms, authority for the attorney-in-fact to sell or redeem the grantor's securities, sell his or her personal property, or, otherwise contain similar authority; and
(3) In the case of a grantor who has become incapacitated, the power of attorney must conform with pertinent provisions of State law concerning its durability. Generally, in such circumstances, the power of attorney should provide that the authority granted will not be affected by the subsequent incompetence or incapacity of the grantor. Medical evidence or other proof of the grantor's condition may be required in any case.
[[45 FR 64091, Sept. 26, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 39602, Sept. 1, 1992; 59 FR 10541, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 353.41   Partial redemption.

A bond of Series EE or HH may be redeemed in part at current redemption value, but only in amounts corresponding to authorized denominations, upon surrender of the bond to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service in accordance with § 353.39(b). In any case in which partial redemption is requested, the phrase “to the extent of $__ (face amount) and reissue of the remainder” should be added to the request. Upon partial redemption of the bond, the remainder will be reissued as of the original issue date, as provided in subpart I.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 10541, Mar. 4, 1994]]

§ 353.42   Nonreceipt or loss of check issued in payment.

If a check in payment of a bond surrendered for redemption is not received within a reasonable time or is lost after receipt, notice should be given to the same agency to which the bond was surrendered for payment. The notice should give the date the bond was surrendered for payment and describe the bond by series, denomination, serial number, and registration, including the taxpayer identifying number of the owner.

§ 353.43   Effective date of request for payment.

The Department of the Treasury will treat the receipt of a bond with an appropriate request for payment by:
(a) A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch,
(b) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or
(c) A paying agent authorized to pay that bond, as the date upon which the rights of the parties are fixed for the purpose of payment.

§ 353.44   Withdrawal of request for payment.

(a) Withdrawal by owner or coowner. An owner or coowner, who has surrendered a bond to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or to an authorized paying agent with an appropriate request for payment, may withdraw the request if notice of intent to withdraw is received by the same agency prior to payment either in cash or through the issuance of the redemption check.
Withdrawal by owner or coowner.
An owner or coowner, who has surrendered a bond to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or to an authorized paying agent with an appropriate request for payment, may withdraw the request if notice of intent to withdraw is received by the same agency prior to payment either in cash or through the issuance of the redemption check.
(b) Withdrawal on behalf of deceased owner or incompetent. A request for payment may be withdrawn under the same conditions as in paragraph (a) of this section by the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased owner or by the person or persons who could have been entitled to the bond under subpart L, or by the legal representative of the estate of a person under legal disability, unless surrender of the bond for payment has eliminated the interest of a surviving coowner or beneficiary. See § 353.70 (b) and (c).
Withdrawal on behalf of deceased owner or incompetent.
A request for payment may be withdrawn under the same conditions as in paragraph (a) of this section by the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased owner or by the person or persons who could have been entitled to the bond under subpart L, or by the legal representative of the estate of a person under legal disability, unless surrender of the bond for payment has eliminated the interest of a surviving coowner or beneficiary. See § 353.70 (b) and (c).

Subpart I—Reissue and Denominational Exchange


§ 353.45   General.

(a) Reissue of a bond may be made only under the conditions specified in these regulations, and only at:
(1) A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or
(2) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
(b) Reissue will not be made if the request is received less than one full calendar month before the final maturity date of a bond. The request, however, will be effective to establish ownership as though the requested reissue had been made. We reserve the right to reissue savings bonds in book-entry form only. See § 353.48(a).
[[76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 8859, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 353.46   Effective date of request for reissue.

The Department of the Treasury will treat the receipt by: (a) A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or (b) the Bureau of the Fiscal Service of a bond and an acceptable request for reissue as determining the date upon which the rights of the parties are fixed for the purpose of reissue. For example, if the owner or either coowner of a bond dies after the bond has been surrendered for reissue, the bond will be regarded as having been reissued in the decedent's lifetime.

§ 353.47   Authorized reissue—during lifetime.

A bond belonging to an individual may be reissued in any authorized form of registration upon an appropriate request for the purposes outlined below.
(a) Single ownership. A bond registered in single ownership form may be reissued—
Single ownership.
A bond registered in single ownership form may be reissued—
(1) To add a coowner or beneficiary; or
(2) To name a new owner, with or without a coowner or beneficiary, but only if:
(i) The new owner is related to the previous owner by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage;
(ii) The previous owner and the new owner are parties to a divorce or annulment; or
(iii) The new sole owner is the trustee of a personal trust estate which was created by the previous owner or which designates as beneficiary either the previous owner or a person related to him or her by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage.
(b) Coownership—(1) Reissue—to name a related individual as owner or coowner. During the lifetime of both coowners, a coownership bond may be reissued in the name of another individual related by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage to either coowner:
Coownership
—(1)
Reissue—to name a related individual as owner or coowner.
During the lifetime of both coowners, a coownership bond may be reissued in the name of another individual related by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage to either coowner:
(i) As single owner,
(ii) As owner with one of the original coowners as beneficiary, or
(iii) As a new coowner with one of the original coowners.
(2) Reissue—to name either coowner alone or with another individual as coowner or beneficiary. During the lifetime of both coowners, a coownership bond may be reissued in the name of either coowner alone or with another individual as coowner or beneficiary if:
Reissue—to name either coowner alone or with another individual as coowner or beneficiary.
During the lifetime of both coowners, a coownership bond may be reissued in the name of either coowner alone or with another individual as coowner or beneficiary if:
(i) After issue of the submitted bond, either coowner named thereon marries, or the coowners are divorced or legally separated from each other, or their marriage is annulled; or
(ii) Both coowners on the submitted bond are related by blood (including legal adoption) or marriage to each other.
(3) Reissue—to name the trustee of a personal trust estate. A bond registered in coownership form may be reissued to name a trustee of a personal trust estate created by either coowner or by some other person if:
Reissue—to name the trustee of a personal trust estate.
A bond registered in coownership form may be reissued to name a trustee of a personal trust estate created by either coowner or by some other person if:
(i) Either coowner is a beneficiary of the trust, or (ii) a beneficiary of the trust is related by blood or marriage to either coowner.
(c) Beneficiary. A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued:
Beneficiary.
A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued:
(1) To name the beneficiary as coowner;
(2) To substitute another individual as beneficiary; or
(3) To eliminate the beneficiary, and, if the beneficiary is eliminated, to effect any of the reissues authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.

§ 353.48   Restrictions on reissue.

(a) Elimination of definitive Series EE bonds. After February 14, 2014, the Department of the Treasury will no longer reissue Series EE bonds in definitive (paper) form. After that date, a request for reissue of a Series EE bond for any reason will only be processed under one of the following conditions:
Elimination of definitive Series EE bonds.
After February 14, 2014, the Department of the Treasury will no longer reissue Series EE bonds in definitive (paper) form. After that date, a request for reissue of a Series EE bond for any reason will only be processed under one of the following conditions:
(1) If the new owner requests payment in the same transaction; or
(2) If the new owner provides instructions to reissue in the form of a book-entry bond in a TreasuryDirect® account. This option is available for persons who are eligible to open a TreasuryDirect® account under the regulations in 31 CFR part 363.
(b) Denominational exchange. Reissue is not permitted solely to change denominations.
Denominational exchange.
Reissue is not permitted solely to change denominations.
(c) United States Treasury. Reissue may not be made to eliminate the United States Treasury as coowner.
United States Treasury.
Reissue may not be made to eliminate the United States Treasury as coowner.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 79 FR 8859, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 353.49   Correction of errors.

A bond may be reissued to correct an error in registration upon appropriate request supported by satisfactory proof of the error.

§ 353.50   Change of name.

An owner, coowner, or beneficiary whose name is changed by marriage, divorce, annulment, order of court, or in any other legal manner after the issue of the bond should submit the bond with a request for reissue to substitute the new name for the name inscribed on the bond. Documentary evidence may be required in any appropriate case.

§ 353.51   Requests for reissue.

A request for reissue of bonds in coownership form must be signed by both coowners, except that a request solely to eliminate the name of one coowner may be signed by that coowner only. A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued upon the request of the owner, without the consent of the beneficiary. Fiscal Service forms are available for requesting reissue.

Subpart J—Certifying Officers


§ 353.55   Individuals authorized to certify.

The following individuals are authorized to act as certifying officers for the purpose of certifying a request for payment, reissue, or a signature to a Fiscal Service form:
(a) Officers generally authorized—(1) At banks, trust companies, and member organizations of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. (i) Any officer of a bank incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Officers generally authorized
—(1)
At banks, trust companies, and member organizations of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
(i) Any officer of a bank incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(ii) Any officer of a trust company incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(iii) Any officer of an organization that is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. This includes Federal savings and loan associations.
(iv) Any officer of a foreign branch or a domestic branch of an institution indicated in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(v) Any officer of a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal Land Bank, or a Federal Home Loan Bank.
(vi) Any employee of an institution in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, who is expressly authorized to certify by the institution.
Certification by these officers or designated employees must be authenticated by a legible imprint of either the corporate seal of the institution or of the issuing or paying agent's stamp. The employee expressly authorized to certify by an institution must sign his or her name over the title “Designated Employee”.
(2) At issuing agents that are not banks or trust companies. Any officer of an organization, not a bank or a trust company, that is qualified as an issuing agent for bonds of Series EE. The agent's stamp must be imprinted in the certification.
At issuing agents that are not banks or trust companies.
Any officer of an organization, not a bank or a trust company, that is qualified as an issuing agent for bonds of Series EE. The agent's stamp must be imprinted in the certification.
(3) By United States officials. Any judge, clerk, or deputy clerk of a United States court, including United States courts for the territories and possessions of the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; any United States Commissioner, United States Attorney, or United States Collector of Customs, including their deputies; in the Internal Revenue Service, any Regional Commissioner, District Director, Service Center Director, or Internal Revenue agent.
By United States officials.
Any judge, clerk, or deputy clerk of a United States court, including United States courts for the territories and possessions of the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; any United States Commissioner, United States Attorney, or United States Collector of Customs, including their deputies; in the Internal Revenue Service, any Regional Commissioner, District Director, Service Center Director, or Internal Revenue agent.
(b) Officers with limited authority—(1) In the Armed Forces. Any commissioned officer or warrant officer of the Armed Forces of the United States, but only for members of the respective services, their families, and civilian employees at posts, bases, or stations. The certifying officer must indicate his or her rank and state that the individual signing the request is one of the class whose request the certifying officer is authorized to certify.
Officers with limited authority
—(1)
In the Armed Forces.
Any commissioned officer or warrant officer of the Armed Forces of the United States, but only for members of the respective services, their families, and civilian employees at posts, bases, or stations. The certifying officer must indicate his or her rank and state that the individual signing the request is one of the class whose request the certifying officer is authorized to certify.
(2) At the Veterans Administration, Federal penal institutions, and United States Public Health Service hospitals. Any officer in charge of a home, hospital, or other facility of the Veterans Administration, but only for the patients, or employees of the facility; any officer of a Federal penal institution or a United States Public Health Service hospital expressly authorized to certify by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee, but only for the inmates, patients or employees of the institution involved. Officers of Veterans Administration facilities, Federal penal institutions, and Public Health Service hospitals must use the stamp or seal of the particular institution or service.
At the Veterans Administration, Federal penal institutions, and United States Public Health Service hospitals.
Any officer in charge of a home, hospital, or other facility of the Veterans Administration, but only for the patients, or employees of the facility; any officer of a Federal penal institution or a United States Public Health Service hospital expressly authorized to certify by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee, but only for the inmates, patients or employees of the institution involved. Officers of Veterans Administration facilities, Federal penal institutions, and Public Health Service hospitals must use the stamp or seal of the particular institution or service.
(c) Authorized officers in foreign countries. Any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate seal or is certified to the Department of the Treasury. If none of these individuals is available, a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths may certify, but his or her official character and jurisdiction must be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his or her office.
Authorized officers in foreign countries.
Any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate seal or is certified to the Department of the Treasury. If none of these individuals is available, a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths may certify, but his or her official character and jurisdiction must be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his or her office.
(d) Authorized officers in particular localities. The Governor and the Treasurer of Puerto Rico; the Governor and the Commissioner of Finance of the Virgin Islands; the Governor and the Director of Finance of Guam; the Governor and the Director of Administrative Services of American Samoa; or designated officers of the Panama Canal Commission.
Authorized officers in particular localities.
The Governor and the Treasurer of Puerto Rico; the Governor and the Commissioner of Finance of the Virgin Islands; the Governor and the Director of Finance of Guam; the Governor and the Director of Administrative Services of American Samoa; or designated officers of the Panama Canal Commission.
(e) Special provisions. If no certifying officer is readily accessible, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, Deputy Commissioner, any Assistant Commissioner, or other designated official of the Bureau or of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for any particular case.
Special provisions.
If no certifying officer is readily accessible, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, Deputy Commissioner, any Assistant Commissioner, or other designated official of the Bureau or of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for any particular case.

§ 353.56   General instructions and liability.

(a) The certifying officer must: (1) Require the person presenting a bond, or an appropriate Fiscal Service transaction form, to establish his or her identity in accordance with Department of the Treasury instructions and identification guidelines;
(2) Place a notation on the back of the bond or on the appropriate Fiscal Service transaction form, or in a separate record, showing exactly how identification was established; and
(3) Affix, as part of the certification, his or her official signature, title, seal or issuing or paying agent's stamp, address, and the date of execution.
(b) The certifying officer and, if such person is an officer or an employee of an organization, the organization will be held fully responsible for the adequacy of the identification.

§ 353.57   When a certifying officer may not certify.

Certifying officers may not certify the requests for payment of bonds, or appropriate Fiscal Service transaction forms if, in their own right or in a representative capacity, they—
(a) Have an interest in the bonds, or
(b) Will, by virtue of the requests being certified, acquire an interest in the bonds.

§ 353.58   Forms to be certified.

When required in the instructions on a Fiscal Service transaction form, the form must be signed before an authorized certifying officer.

Subpart K—Minors, Incompetents, Aged Persons, Absentees, et al.


§ 353.60   Payment to representative of an estate.

(a) The representative of an estate of an owner who is a minor, an aged person, incompetent, absentee, et al., may receive payment upon request:
(1) If the registration shows the name and capacity of the representative;
(2) If the registration shows the capacity but not the name of the representative and the request is accompanied by appropriate evidence; or
(3) If the registration includes neither the name of the representative nor his or her capacity but the request is accompained by appropriate evidence.
(b) Appropriate evidence for paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section includes a certified copy of the letters of appointment or, if the representative is not appointed by a court, other proof of qualification. Except in the case of corporate fiduciaries, the evidence must show that the appointment is in full force and be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment. The request for payment appearing on the back of a bond must be signed by the representative as such, for example, “John S. Jones, guardian (committee) of the estate of Henry W. Smith, a minor (an incompetent)”.

§ 353.61   Payment after death.

After the death of the ward, and at any time prior to the representative's discharge, the representative of the estate will be entitled to obtain payment of a bond to which the ward was solely entitled.

§ 353.62   Payment to minors.

If the owner of a savings bond is a minor and the form of registration does not indicate that there is a representative of the minor's estate, payment will be made to the minor upon his or her request, provided the minor is of sufficient competency to sign the request for payment and to understand the nature of the transaction. In general, the fact that the request for payment has been signed by a minor and certified will be accepted as sufficient proof of competency and understanding.

§ 353.63   Payment to a parent or other person on behalf of a minor.

If the owner of a savings bond is a minor and the form of registration does not indicate that there is a representative of his or her estate, and if the minor is not of sufficient competency to sign the request for payment and to understand the nature of the transaction, payment will be made to either parent with whom the minor resides or to whom legal custody has been granted. If the minor does not reside with either parent, payment will be made to the person who furnishes the chief support for the minor. The request must appear on the back of the bond in one of the following forms:
(a) Request by parent.
Request by parent.
I certify that I am the mother of John C. Jones (with whom he resides) (to whom legal custody has been granted). He is ___ years of age and is not of sufficient understanding to make this request.
Mary Jones on behalf of John C. Jones
(b) Request by other person.
Request by other person.
I certify that John C. Jones does not reside with either parent and that I furnish his chief support. He is ___ years of age and is not of sufficient understanding to make this request.
Alice Brown, grandmother,
On behalf of John C. Jones

§ 353.64   Payment, reinvestment, or exchange—voluntary guardian of an incapacitated person.

(a) Payment of bonds. When an adult owner of bonds is incapable of requesting payment as a result of incapacity and there is no other person legally qualified to do so, the relative, or other person, responsible for the owner's care and support may submit an application for recognition as voluntary guardian for the purpose of redeeming the owner's bonds, if the total redemption value of all of the owner's bonds does not exceed $20,000. The redemption value of the bonds shall be determined as of the date the bonds are received, accompanied by an appropriate request for payment. If the total redemption value exceeds $20,000, a legal representative must be appointed, as set forth in § 315.60.
(b) Reinvestment of bonds. If the bonds have finally matured and it is desired to redeem them and reinvest the proceeds in other savings bonds, the new bonds must be registered in the name of the incapacitated person, followed by words showing that he or she is under voluntary guardianship; for example, “John Jones 123-45-6789, under voluntary guardianship”. A living coowner or beneficiary named on the matured bonds must be designated on the new bonds, unless such person furnishes a certified statement consenting to omission of his or her name. If an amount insufficient to purchase an additional bond of any authorized denomination of either series remains after the reinvestment, the voluntary guardian may furnish additional funds sufficient to purchase another bond of either series of the lowest available denomination. If additional funds are not furnished, the remaining amount will be paid to the voluntary guardian for the use and benefit of the incapacitated person.
(c) Exchange of bonds. The provisions for reinvestment of the proceeds of matured bonds are equally applicable to any authorized exchange of bonds of one series for those of another.
[[57 FR 39602, Sept. 1, 1992]]

§ 353.65   Reissue.

A bond on which a minor or other person under legal disability is named as the owner or coowner, or in which he or she has an interest, may be reissued under the following conditions:
(a) A minor for whose estate no representative has been appointed may request reissue if the minor is of sufficient competency to sign his or her name to the request and to understand the nature of the transaction.
(b) A bond on which a minor is named as beneficiary or coowner may be reissued in the name of a custodian for the minor under a statute authorizing gifts to minor upon the request of the adult whose name appears on the bond as owner or coowner.
(c) A minor coowner for whose estate no representative has been appointed, may be named sole owner upon the request of the competent coowner.
(d) Reissue to eliminate the name of a minor or incompetent for whose estate a legal representative has been appointed is permitted only if supported by evidence that a court has authorized the representative of the minor's or incompetent's estate to request the reissue. See § 353.23.
Except to the extent provided in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, reissue will be restricted to a form of registration which does not adversely affect the existing ownership or interest of a minor who is not of sufficient understanding to make a request, or other person under legal disability. Requests for reissue should be executed by the person authorized to request payment under §§ 353.60 and 353.63, or the person who may request recognization as voluntary guardian under § 353.64.
[[44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979. Redesignated at 57 FR 39602, Sept. 1, 1992]]

Subpart L—Deceased Owner, Coowner or Beneficiary


§ 353.70   General rules governing entitlement.

The following rules govern ownership or entitlement where one or both of the persons named on a bond have died without the bond having been surrendered for payment or reissue:
(a) Single owner bond. If the owner of a bond registered in single ownership form has died, the bond becomes the property of that decedent's estate, and payment or reissue will be made as provided in this subpart.
Single owner bond.
If the owner of a bond registered in single ownership form has died, the bond becomes the property of that decedent's estate, and payment or reissue will be made as provided in this subpart.
(b) Coowner bond—(1) One coowner deceased. If one of the coowners named on a bond has died, the surviving coowner will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner, and payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the name of the survivor alone. Any request for reissue by the surviving coowner must be supported by proof of death of the other coowner.
Coowner bond
—(1)
One coowner deceased.
If one of the coowners named on a bond has died, the surviving coowner will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner, and payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the name of the survivor alone. Any request for reissue by the surviving coowner must be supported by proof of death of the other coowner.
(2) Both coowners deceased. If both coowners named on a bond have died, the bond becomes the property of the estate of the coowner who died last, and payment or reissue will be made as if the bond were registered in the name of the last deceased coowner alone. Proof of death of both coowners will be required to establish the order of death.
Both coowners deceased.
If both coowners named on a bond have died, the bond becomes the property of the estate of the coowner who died last, and payment or reissue will be made as if the bond were registered in the name of the last deceased coowner alone. Proof of death of both coowners will be required to establish the order of death.
(3) Simultaneously death of both coowners. If both coowners die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, which coowner died first, the bond becomes the property of both equally, and payment or reissue will be made accordingly.
Simultaneously death of both coowners.
If both coowners die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, which coowner died first, the bond becomes the property of both equally, and payment or reissue will be made accordingly.
(c) Beneficiary bond—(1) Owner deceased. If the owner of a bond registered in beneficiary form has died and is survived by the beneficiary, upon proof of death of the owner, the beneficiary will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner of the bond. Payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the survivor's name alone. A request for payment or reissue by the beneficiary must be supported by proof of death of the owner.
Beneficiary bond
—(1)
Owner deceased.
If the owner of a bond registered in beneficiary form has died and is survived by the beneficiary, upon proof of death of the owner, the beneficiary will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner of the bond. Payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the survivor's name alone. A request for payment or reissue by the beneficiary must be supported by proof of death of the owner.
(2) Beneficiary deceased. If the beneficiary's death occurs before, or simultaneously with, that of the registered owner, payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the owner's name alone. Proof of death of the owner and beneficiary is required to establish the order of death.
Beneficiary deceased.
If the beneficiary's death occurs before, or simultaneously with, that of the registered owner, payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the owner's name alone. Proof of death of the owner and beneficiary is required to establish the order of death.
(d) Nonresident aliens. If the person who becomes entitled to a bond because of the death of an owner is an alien who is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities, delivery of the redemption check will not be made so long as the restriction applies. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211).
Nonresident aliens.
If the person who becomes entitled to a bond because of the death of an owner is an alien who is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of checks drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities, delivery of the redemption check will not be made so long as the restriction applies. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211).

§ 353.71   Decedent's estate.

(a) Estate is being administered. (1) A legal representative of a deceased owner's estate may request payment of savings bonds to the estate, or may distribute the savings bonds to the persons entitled.
Estate is being administered.
(1) A legal representative of a deceased owner's estate may request payment of savings bonds to the estate, or may distribute the savings bonds to the persons entitled.
(2) Appropriate proof of appointment for the legal representative of the estate is required. Letters of appointment must be dated not more than one year prior to the date of submission of the letters of appointment.
(b) Estate has been settled previously. If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment or reissue of savings bonds. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence is required.
Estate has been settled previously.
If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment or reissue of savings bonds. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence is required.
(c) Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile. If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under applicable local law summary or small estates procedures may request payment or reissue of savings bonds. Appropriate evidence is required.
Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile.
If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under applicable local law summary or small estates procedures may request payment or reissue of savings bonds. Appropriate evidence is required.
(d) When administration is required. If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
When administration is required.
If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
(e) Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered—(1) General. A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to redeem or distribute a decedent's savings bonds. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's savings bonds and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered
—(1)
General.
A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to redeem or distribute a decedent's savings bonds. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's savings bonds and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
(i) There has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, and no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used;
(ii) The total redemption value of the Treasury securities and held payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is $100,000 or less as of the date of death; and
(iii) There is a person eligible to serve as the voluntary representative according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) Authority of voluntary representative. A voluntary representative may:
Authority of voluntary representative.
A voluntary representative may:
(i) Redeem the decedent's savings bonds that are eligible for redemption on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death;
(ii) Distribute the decedent's savings bonds to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death.
(3) Order of precedence for voluntary representative. An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
Order of precedence for voluntary representative.
An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
(4) Liability. By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or savings bonds is to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or securities. Upon payment or transfer of the securities at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
Liability.
By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or savings bonds is to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or securities. Upon payment or transfer of the securities at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
(f) Creditor. If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
Creditor.
If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
[[70 FR 57430, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 353.72   [Reserved]


Subpart M—Fiduciaries


§ 353.75   Payment or reissue during the existence of the fiduciary estate.

(a) Payment or reissue before maturity—(1) Request from the fiduciary named in the registration. A request for reissue or payment prior to maturity must be signed by all of the fiduciaries unless by statute, decree of court, or the terms of the governing instrument, any lesser number may properly execute the request. If the fiduciaries named in the registration are still acting, no further evidence will be required. In other cases, evidence to support the request will be required, as specified:
Payment or reissue before maturity
—(1)
Request from the fiduciary named in the registration.
A request for reissue or payment prior to maturity must be signed by all of the fiduciaries unless by statute, decree of court, or the terms of the governing instrument, any lesser number may properly execute the request. If the fiduciaries named in the registration are still acting, no further evidence will be required. In other cases, evidence to support the request will be required, as specified:
(i) Fiduciaries by title only. If the bond is registered only in the titles, without the names, of fiduciaries not acting as a board, satisfactory evidence of their incumbency must be furnished, except in the case of bonds registered in the title of public officers as trustees.
Fiduciaries by title only.
If the bond is registered only in the titles, without the names, of fiduciaries not acting as a board, satisfactory evidence of their incumbency must be furnished, except in the case of bonds registered in the title of public officers as trustees.
(ii) Boards, committees, commission, etc. If a bond is registered in the name of a governing body which is empowered to act as a unit, and which holds title to the property of a religious, educational, charitable or nonprofit organization or a public corporation, the request should be signed in the name of the body by an authorized person. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
Boards, committees, commission, etc.
If a bond is registered in the name of a governing body which is empowered to act as a unit, and which holds title to the property of a religious, educational, charitable or nonprofit organization or a public corporation, the request should be signed in the name of the body by an authorized person. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
(iii) Corporate fiduciaries. If a bond is registered in the name of a public or private corporation or a governmental body as fiduciary, the request must be signed by an authorized officer in the name of the organization as fiduciary. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
Corporate fiduciaries.
If a bond is registered in the name of a public or private corporation or a governmental body as fiduciary, the request must be signed by an authorized officer in the name of the organization as fiduciary. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
(2) Trustee of a common trust fund. A bond held by a financial institution in a fiduciary capacity may be reissued in the name of the institution as trustee of its common trust fund to the extent that participation in the common trust fund is authorized by law or regulation. The request for reissue should be executed by the institution and any cofiduciary.
Trustee of a common trust fund.
A bond held by a financial institution in a fiduciary capacity may be reissued in the name of the institution as trustee of its common trust fund to the extent that participation in the common trust fund is authorized by law or regulation. The request for reissue should be executed by the institution and any cofiduciary.
(3) Successor fiduciary. If the fiduciary in whose name the bond is registered has been replaced by another fiduciary, satisfactory evidence of successorship must be furnished.
Successor fiduciary.
If the fiduciary in whose name the bond is registered has been replaced by another fiduciary, satisfactory evidence of successorship must be furnished.
(b) Payment at or after final maturity. At or after final maturity, a request for payment signed by any one or more of the fiduciaries will be accepted. Payment will be made by check drawn as the bond is registered.
Payment at or after final maturity.
At or after final maturity, a request for payment signed by any one or more of the fiduciaries will be accepted. Payment will be made by check drawn as the bond is registered.

§ 353.76   Payment or reissue after termination of the fiduciary estate.

A bond registered in the name or title of a fiduciary may be paid or reissued to the person who has become entitled by reason of the termination of a fiduciary estate. Requests for reissue made by a fiduciary pursuant to the termination of a fiduciary estate should be made on the appropriate form. Requests for payment or reissue by other than the fiduciary must be accompanied by evidence to show that the person has become entitled in accordance with applicable State law or otherwise. When two or more persons have become entitled, the request for payment or reissue must be signed by each of them.

§ 353.77   Exchanges by fiduciaries.

Fiduciaries are authorized to request an exchange of bonds of one series for those of another, pursuant to any applicable Department of the Treasury offering. A living coowner of beneficiary named on the bonds submitted in exchange may be retained in the same capacity on the new bonds.

Subpart N—Private Organizations (Corporations, Associations, Partnerships, et cetera) and Governmental Agencies, Units and Officers


§ 353.80   Payment to corporations or unincorporated associations.

A bond registered in the name of a private corporation or an unincorporated association will be paid to the corporation or unincorporated association upon a request for payment on its behalf by an authorized officer. The signature to the request should be in the form, for example, “The Jones Coal Company, a corporation, by John Jones, President”, or “The Lotus Club, an unincorporated association, by William A. Smith, Treasurer”. A request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted without further evidence of the officer's authority.

§ 353.81   Payment to partnerships.

A bond registered in the name of an existing partnership will be paid upon a request for payment signed by a general partner. The signature to the request should be in the form, for example, “Smith and Jones, a partnership, by John Jones, a general partner”. A request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted as sufficient evidence that the partnership is still in existence and that the person signing the request is authorized.

§ 353.82   Reissue or payment to successors of corporations, unincorporated associations, or partnerships.

A bond registered in the name of a private corporation, an unincorporated association, or a partnership which has been succeeded by another corporation, unincorporated association, or partnership by operation of law or otherwise, in any manner whereby the business or activities of the original organization are continued without substantial change, will be paid to or reissued in the name of the succeeding organization upon appropriate request on its behalf, supported by satisfactory evidence of successorship. The appropriate form should be used.

§ 353.83   Reissue or payment on dissolution of corporation or partnership.

(a) Corporations. A bond registered in the name of a private corporation which is in the process of dissolution will be paid to the authorized representative of the corporation upon a request for payment, supported by satisfactory evidence of the representative's authority. At the termination of dissolution proceedings, the bond may be reissued upon the request of the authorized representative in the names of those persons, other than creditors, entitled to the assets of the corporation, to the extent of their respective interests. Proof will be required that all statutory provisions governing the dissolution of the corporation have been complied with and that the persons in whose names reissue is requested are entitled and have agreed to the reissue. If the dissolution proceedings are under the direction of a court, a certified copy of an order of the court, showing the authority of the representative to make the distribution requested must be furnished.
Corporations.
A bond registered in the name of a private corporation which is in the process of dissolution will be paid to the authorized representative of the corporation upon a request for payment, supported by satisfactory evidence of the representative's authority. At the termination of dissolution proceedings, the bond may be reissued upon the request of the authorized representative in the names of those persons, other than creditors, entitled to the assets of the corporation, to the extent of their respective interests. Proof will be required that all statutory provisions governing the dissolution of the corporation have been complied with and that the persons in whose names reissue is requested are entitled and have agreed to the reissue. If the dissolution proceedings are under the direction of a court, a certified copy of an order of the court, showing the authority of the representative to make the distribution requested must be furnished.
(b) Partnerships. A bond registered in the name of a partnership which has been dissolved by death or withdrawal of a partner, or in any other manner:
Partnerships.
A bond registered in the name of a partnership which has been dissolved by death or withdrawal of a partner, or in any other manner:
(1) Will be paid upon a request for payment by any partner or partners authorized by law to act on behalf of the dissolved partnership, or
(2) Will be paid to or reissued in the names of the persons entitled as the result of such dissolution to the extent of their respective interests, except that reissue will not be made in the names of creditors. The request must be supported by satisfactory evidence of entitlement, including proof that the debts of the partnership have been paid or properly provided for. The appropriate form should be used.

§ 353.84   Payment to certain institutions.

A bond registered in the name of a church, hospital, home, school, or similar institution, without reference in the registration to the manner in which it is organized or governed or to the manner in which title to its property is held, will be paid upon a request for payment signed on behalf of such institution by an authorized representative. A request for payment signed by a pastor of a church, superintendent of a hospital, president of a college, or by any official generally recognized as having authority to conduct the financial affairs of the particular institution will ordinarily be accepted without further proof of authority. The signature to the request should be in the form, for example, “Shriners' Hospital for Crippled Children, St. Louis, MO, by William A. Smith, Superintendent”, or “St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, Albany, NY, by the Rev. John Smyth, Pastor”.

§ 353.85   Reissue in name of trustee or agent for reinvestment purposes.

A bond registered in the name of a religious, educational, charitable or nonprofit organization, whether or not incorporated, may be reissued in the name of a financial institution, or an individual, as trustee or agent. There must be an agreement between the organization and the trustee or agent holding funds of the organization, in whole or in part, for the purpose of investing and reinvesting the principal and paying the income to the organization. Reissue should be requested on behalf of the organization by an authorized officer using the appropriate form.

§ 353.86   Reissue upon termination of investment agency.

A bond registered in the name of a financial institution, or individual, as agent for investment purposes only, under an agreement with a religious, an educational, a charitable, or a nonprofit organization, may be reissued in the name of the organization upon termination of the agency. The former agent should request such reissue and should certify that the organization is entitled by reason of the termination of the agency. If such request and certification are not obtainable, the bond will be reissued in the name of the organization upon its own request, supported by satisfactory evidence of the termination of the agency. The appropriate form should be used.

§ 353.87   Payment to governmental agencies, units, or their officers.

(a) Agencies and units. A bond registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, or in the name of a Federal, State, or local governmental agency, such as a board, commission, or corporation, will be paid upon a request signed in the name of the governmental agency or unit or by an authorized officer. A request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted without further proof of the officer's authority.
Agencies and units.
A bond registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, or in the name of a Federal, State, or local governmental agency, such as a board, commission, or corporation, will be paid upon a request signed in the name of the governmental agency or unit or by an authorized officer. A request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted without further proof of the officer's authority.
(b) Officers. A bond registered in the official title of an officer of a governmental agency or unit will be paid upon a request for payment signed by the officer. The request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted as proof that the person signing is the incumbent of the office.
Officers.
A bond registered in the official title of an officer of a governmental agency or unit will be paid upon a request for payment signed by the officer. The request for payment so signed and certified will ordinarily be accepted as proof that the person signing is the incumbent of the office.

Subpart O—Escheat and Unclaimed Property Claims by States


§ 353.88   Payment to a State claiming title to abandoned bonds.

(a) General. The Department of the Treasury may, in its discretion, recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a definitive savings bond that has reached final maturity and is in the State's possession, when the State presents evidence satisfactory to Treasury that the bond has been abandoned by all persons entitled to payment under Treasury regulations. A State claiming title to a definitive savings bond as the heir to a deceased owner must comply with the requirements of subpart L, and not this section. Treasury will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that has not reached its final maturity. Treasury also will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that the State does not possess, or a judgment that purports to grant the State custody of a bond, but not title.
General.
The Department of the Treasury may, in its discretion, recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a definitive savings bond that has reached final maturity and is in the State's possession, when the State presents evidence satisfactory to Treasury that the bond has been abandoned by all persons entitled to payment under Treasury regulations. A State claiming title to a definitive savings bond as the heir to a deceased owner must comply with the requirements of subpart L, and not this section. Treasury will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that has not reached its final maturity. Treasury also will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that the State does not possess, or a judgment that purports to grant the State custody of a bond, but not title.
(b) Due process. At a minimum, a State requesting payment under this section must demonstrate to Treasury's satisfaction that it made reasonable efforts to provide actual and constructive notice of the escheat proceeding to all persons listed on the face of the bond and all persons who may have an interest in the bond, and that those persons had an opportunity to be heard before the escheat judgment was entered.
Due process.
At a minimum, a State requesting payment under this section must demonstrate to Treasury's satisfaction that it made reasonable efforts to provide actual and constructive notice of the escheat proceeding to all persons listed on the face of the bond and all persons who may have an interest in the bond, and that those persons had an opportunity to be heard before the escheat judgment was entered.
(c) Fulfillment of obligation. Payment to a State claiming title under this section fulfills the United States' obligations to the same extent as if payment had been made to the registered owner.
Fulfillment of obligation.
Payment to a State claiming title under this section fulfills the United States' obligations to the same extent as if payment had been made to the registered owner.
[[80 FR 80264, Dec. 24, 2015]]

Subpart P—Miscellaneous Provisions

[Source:44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 80 FR 80264, Dec. 24, 2015.]
Source:
44 FR 76441, Dec. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 80 FR 80264, Dec. 24, 2015.

§ 353.90   Waiver of regulations.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may waive or modify any provision or provisions of these regulations. He may do so in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship:
(a) If such action would not be inconsistent with law or equity, (b) if it does not impair any existing rights, and (c) if he is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 353.91   Additional requirements; bond of indemnity.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may require:
(a) Such additional evidence as he may consider necessary or advisable, or (b) a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, in any case in which he may consider such a bond necessary for the protection of the interests of the United States.

§ 353.92   Supplements, amendments, or revisions.

The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, prescribe additional, supplemental, amendatory, or revised rules and regulations governing United States Savings Bonds of Series EE and HH.

PART 354—REGULATIONS GOVERNING BOOK-ENTRY SECURITIES OF THE STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSOCIATION (SALLIE MAE)

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 391; 20 U.S.C. 1087-2(m).]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 391; 20 U.S.C. 1087-2(m).
[Source:62 FR 622, Jan. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
62 FR 622, Jan. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

§ 354.0   Applicability; maintenance of Sallie Mae Securities.

(a) A Sallie Mae Security may be maintained in the form of a Definitive Sallie Mae Security or a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security. A Book-entry Sallie Mae Security shall be maintained in the Book-entry System.
(b) The Sallie Mae Securities to which the regulations in this part apply are obligations which, by the terms of their issue, are available exclusively as Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities or which, pursuant to the securities documentation, are convertible from Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities to Definitive Sallie Mae Securities or vice versa.

§ 354.1   Definitions of terms.

(a) Adverse claim means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Security and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Security.
Adverse claim
means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Security and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Security.
(b) Book-entry Sallie Mae Security means a Sallie Mae Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System.
Book-entry Sallie Mae Security
means a Sallie Mae Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System.
(c) Book-entry System means the automated book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks acting as the fiscal agent for Sallie Mae, on which Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities are issued, recorded, transferred and maintained in book-entry form.
Book-entry System
means the automated book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks acting as the fiscal agent for Sallie Mae, on which Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities are issued, recorded, transferred and maintained in book-entry form.
(d) Definitive Sallie Mae Security means a Sallie Mae Security in engraved or printed form, or that is otherwise represented by a certificate.
Definitive Sallie Mae Security
means a Sallie Mae Security in engraved or printed form, or that is otherwise represented by a certificate.
(e) Eligible Book-entry Sallie Mae Security means a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System which by the terms of its Security Documentation is available in either definitive or book-entry form.
Eligible Book-entry Sallie Mae Security
means a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System which by the terms of its Security Documentation is available in either definitive or book-entry form.
(f) Entitlement holder means a Person to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
Entitlement holder
means a Person to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
(g) Federal Reserve Bank means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
Federal Reserve Bank
means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
(h) Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Federal Reserve Bank maintains book-entry Securities accounts (including Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities) and transfers book-entry Securities (including Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities).
Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular
means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Federal Reserve Bank maintains book-entry Securities accounts (including Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities) and transfers book-entry Securities (including Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities).
(i) Funds account means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, book-entry securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments.
Funds account
means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, book-entry securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments.
(j) Participant means a Person that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
Participant
means a Person that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
(k) Participant's securities account means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities held for a Participant are or may be credited.
Participant's securities account
means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities held for a Participant are or may be credited.
(l) Person means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States, Sallie Mae, or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Person
means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States, Sallie Mae, or a Federal Reserve Bank.
(m) Revised Article 8 means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, and 10) 1994 Official Text. Revised Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code is incorporated by reference in this part pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Article 8 was adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February 14, 1995. Copies of this publication are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 676 North St. Clair Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 5030, main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington D.C. 20220, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Revised Article 8
means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, and 10) 1994 Official Text. Revised Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code is incorporated by reference in this part pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Article 8 was adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February 14, 1995. Copies of this publication are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 676 North St. Clair Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 5030, main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington D.C. 20220, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(n) Sallie Mae means the Student Loan Marketing Association, a stock holder-owned corporation and government-sponsored enterprise established in 1972 by, and operating pursuant to, section 439 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 20 U.S.C. 1087-2.
Sallie Mae
means the Student Loan Marketing Association, a stock holder-owned corporation and government-sponsored enterprise established in 1972 by, and operating pursuant to, section 439 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 20 U.S.C. 1087-2.
(o) Sallie Mae security means any security or obligation of Sallie Mae issued in the form of a Definitive Sallie Mae Security or a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.
Sallie Mae security
means any security or obligation of Sallie Mae issued in the form of a Definitive Sallie Mae Security or a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.
(p) Securities documentation means the applicable statement of terms and conditions or other documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.
Securities documentation
means the applicable statement of terms and conditions or other documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.
(q) Securities intermediary means:
Securities intermediary
means:
(1) A Person that is registered as a “clearing agency” under the federal securities laws; a Federal Reserve Bank; any other Person that provides clearance or settlement services with respect to a Book-entry Security that would require it to register as a clearing agency under the federal securities laws but for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing corporation, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a federal or state governmental authority; or
(2) A Person (other than an individual, unless such individual is registered as a broker or dealer under the federal securities laws) including a bank or broker, that in the ordinary course of its business maintains securities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity.
(r) Security means any note, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a “security.”
Security
means any note, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a “security.”
(s) Security entitlement means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.
Security entitlement
means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security.
(t) State means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
State
means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
(u) Transfer message means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Security (including a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security) maintained in the Book-entry System, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
Transfer message
means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Security (including a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security) maintained in the Book-entry System, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
[[62 FR 622, Jan. 6, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]]

§ 354.2   Law governing rights and obligations of Federal Reserve Banks, and Sallie Mae; rights of any Person against Federal Reserve Banks and Sallie Mae.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following are governed solely by the book-entry regulations contained in this part 354, the Securities Documentation (to the extent not inconsistent with these regulations) and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars:
(1) The rights and obligations of Sallie Mae and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry Sallie Mae Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the Book-entry System as it applies to Sallie Mae Securities; and
(2) The rights of any Person, including a Participant, against Sallie Mae and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry Sallie Mae Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the Book-entry System as it applies to Sallie Mae Securities.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Participant and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 354.4(c)(1), is governed by the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction where the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Participant's Securities Account is located. A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Person that is not a Participant, and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 354.14(c)(1), is governed by the law determined in the manner specified in § 354.3.
(c) If the jurisdiction specified in the first sentence of paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8 (incorporated by reference, see § 354.1), then the law specified in paragraph (b) shall be the law of that State as though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State.

§ 354.3   Law governing other interests.

(a) To the extent not inconsistent with the regulations in this part, the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of a Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction governs:
(1) The acquisition of a Security Entitlement from the Securities Intermediary;
(2) The rights and duties of the Securities Intermediary and Entitlement Holder arising out of a Security Entitlement;
(3) Whether the Securities Intermediary owes any duties to an adverse claimant to a Security Entitlement;
(4) Whether an Adverse Claim can be asserted against a Person who acquires a Security Entitlement from the Securities Intermediary or a Person who purchases a Security Entitlement or interest therein from an Entitlement Holder; and
(5) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest in a Security Entitlement.
(b) The following rules determine a “Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction” for purposes of this section:
(1) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder specifies that it is governed by the law of a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction.
(2) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify the governing law as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but expressly specifies that the securities account is maintained at an office in a particular jurisdiction, that jurisdiction is the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction.
(3) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify a jurisdiction as provided in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which is located the office identified in an account statement as the office serving the Entitlement Holder's account.
(4) If an agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder does not specify a jurisdiction as provided in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section and an account statement does not identify an office serving the Entitlement Holder's account as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction is the jurisdiction in which is located the chief executive office of the Securities Intermediary.
(c) Notwithstanding the general rule in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the law (but not the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction in which the Person creating a security interest is located governs whether and how the security interest may be perfected automatically or by filing a financing statement.
(d) If the jurisdiction specified in paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8 (incorporated by reference, see § 354.1), then the law for the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be the law of that State as though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State. For purposes of the application of the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Participant's Securities Account is a clearing corporation, and the Participant's interest in a Book-entry Security is a Security Entitlement.

§ 354.4   Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.

(a) A Participant's Security Entitlement is created when a Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book-entry that a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement of a Participant in favor of the United States to secure deposits of public money, including without limitation deposits to the Treasury tax and loan accounts, or other security interest in favor of the United States that is required by Federal statute, regulation, or agreement, and that is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank is thereby effected and perfected, and has priority over any other interest in the securities. Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Federal Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized representative of the United States directing the transfer of the security. For purposes of this paragraph, an “authorized representative of the United States” is the official designated in the applicable regulations or agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.
(c)(1) Sallie Mae and the Federal Reserve Banks have no obligation to agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person except to the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation or to the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded. To the extent required by such law or regulation or set forth in an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank, or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, Sallie Mae, or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank shall have priority over any other interest in the securities.
(2) In addition to the method provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a security interest, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, may be perfected by any method by which a security interest may be perfected under applicable law as described in § 354.2(b) or § 354.3. The perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest are governed by such applicable law. A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a clearing corporation in all respects under such law, including with respect to the effect of perfection and priority of such security interest. A Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for such purposes.

§ 354.5   Obligations of Sallie Mae; no adverse claims.

(a) Except in the case of a security interest in favor of the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise as provided in § 354.4(c)(1), for the purposes of this part 354, Sallie Mae and the Federal Reserve Banks shall treat the Participant to whose Securities Account an interest in a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security has been credited as the person exclusively entitled to issue a Transfer Message, to receive interest and other payments with respect thereof and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers with respect to such Security, notwithstanding any information or notice to the contrary. Neither the Federal Reserve Banks nor Sallie Mae is liable to a Person asserting or having an Adverse Claim to a Security Entitlement or to a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security in a Participant's Securities Account, including any such claim arising as a result of the transfer or disposition of a Book-entry Sallie Mae Security by a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to a Transfer Message that the Federal Reserve Bank reasonably believes to be genuine.
(b) The obligation of Sallie Mae to make payments of interest and principal with respect to Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities is discharged at the time payment in the appropriate amount is made as follows:
(1) Interest on Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities is either credited by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Funds Account maintained at such Bank or otherwise paid as directed by the Participant.
(2) Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities are redeemed at maturity or pursuant to a call for redemption in accordance with their terms by a Federal Reserve Bank withdrawing the securities from the Participant's Securities Account in which they are maintained and by either crediting the amount of the redemption proceeds, including both principal and interest where applicable, to a Funds Account at such Bank or otherwise paying such principal and interest, as directed by the Participant.

§ 354.6   Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.

(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank is hereby authorized as fiscal agent of Sallie Mae to perform functions with respect to the issuance of Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities offered and sold by Sallie Mae, in accordance with the Securities Documentation, and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars; to service and maintain Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities in accounts established for such purposes; to make payments of principal and interest with respect to such Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities as directed by Sallie Mae; to effect transfer of Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities between Participants' Securities Account as directed by the Participants; to effect conversions between Book-entry Sallie Mae securities and Definitive Sallie Mae Securities with respect to those securities as to which conversion rights are available pursuant to the applicable Securities Documentation; and to perform such other duties as fiscal agent as may be requested by Sallie Mae.
(b) Each Federal Reserve Bank may issue Operating Circulars not inconsistent with this part, governing the details of its handling of Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities, Security Entitlements, and the operation of the Book-entry System under this part.

§ 354.7   Withdrawal of eligible Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities for conversion to definitive form.

(a) Eligible Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities may be withdrawn from the Book-entry System by requesting delivery of like Definitive Sallie Mae Securities.
(b) A Federal Reserve Bank shall, upon receipt of appropriate instructions to withdraw Eligible Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities from book-entry in the Book-entry System, convert such securities into Definitive Sallie Mae Securities and deliver them in accordance with such instructions. No such conversion shall affect existing interests in such Sallie Mae Securities.
(c) All requests for withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry Sallie Mae Securities must be made prior to the maturity or date of call of such securities.
(d) Sallie Mae Securities which are to be delivered upon withdrawal may be issued in either registered or bearer form, to the extent permitted by the applicable Securities Documentation.

§ 354.8   Waiver of regulations.

The Secretary reserves the right, in the Secretary's discretion, to waive any provision(s) of the regulations in this part in any case or class of cases for the convenience of Sallie Mae, or in order to relieve any person or entity of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not adversely affect substantial existing rights, and the Secretary is satisfied that such action will not subject Sallie Mae to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 354.9   Liability of Sallie Mae and Federal Reserve Banks.

Sallie Mae and the Federal Reserve Banks may rely on the information provided in a Transfer Message, and are not required to verify the information. Sallie Mae and the Federal Reserve Banks shall not be liable for any action taken in accordance with the information set out in a Transfer Message or evidence submitted in support thereof.

§ 354.10   Additional provisions.

(a) Additional requirements. In any case or any class of cases arising under these regulations, Sallie Mae may require such additional evidence and a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, as may in the judgment of Sallie Mae be necessary for the protection of the interests of Sallie Mae.
Additional requirements.
In any case or any class of cases arising under these regulations, Sallie Mae may require such additional evidence and a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, as may in the judgment of Sallie Mae be necessary for the protection of the interests of Sallie Mae.
(b) Notice of attachment for Sallie Mae Securities in Book-entry System. The interest of a debtor in a Security Entitlement may be reached by a creditor only by legal process upon the Securities Intermediary with whom the debtor's securities account is maintained, except where a Security Entitlement is maintained in the name of a secured party, in which case the debtor's interest may be reached by legal process upon the secured party. The regulations in this part do not purport to establish whether a Federal Reserve Bank is required to honor an order or other notice of attachment in any particular case or class of cases.
Notice of attachment for Sallie Mae Securities in Book-entry System.
The interest of a debtor in a Security Entitlement may be reached by a creditor only by legal process upon the Securities Intermediary with whom the debtor's securities account is maintained, except where a Security Entitlement is maintained in the name of a secured party, in which case the debtor's interest may be reached by legal process upon the secured party. The regulations in this part do not purport to establish whether a Federal Reserve Bank is required to honor an order or other notice of attachment in any particular case or class of cases.

PART 355—REGULATIONS GOVERNING FISCAL AGENCY CHECKS

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. Ch. 31.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. Ch. 31.
[Source:65 FR 65700, Nov. 1, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 65700, Nov. 1, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

§ 355.0   What does this part cover?

This part governs checks issued for payments in connection with United States securities. These checks, referred to as “fiscal agency checks,” are issued by a designated Federal Reserve Bank in its capacity as fiscal agent of the United States. The checks are drawn on the payor Federal Reserve Bank in its banking capacity. The drawer of a fiscal agency check is the United States, and the drawee is a Federal Reserve Bank. The rights and liabilities of the United States, the Federal Reserve Banks, and others are set out in this part.

§ 355.1   Do any other regulations cover fiscal agency checks?

The regulations governing checks drawn on the United States and on designated depositories of the United States do not apply to fiscal agency checks, unless a statute specifically provides differently, or unless we state differently in this part. If a definition or matter pertaining to fiscal agency checks is not specifically covered in this part, we will apply the provisions of Regulations J of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, at 12 CFR part 210. To the extent not otherwise covered by this part or by Regulation J, we will apply the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code (U.C.C.)

§ 355.2   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

Depository institution means:
Depository institution
means:
(1) Any insured bank, mutual savings bank or savings bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813, or any institution eligible to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;
(2) Any insured credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752, or any credit union eligible to become an insured credit union under 12 U.S.C. 1781;
(3) Any member as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1422; and
(4) Any savings association as defined in 12 U.S.C. that is an insured depository institution as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq., or is eligible to become an insured depository institution under that Act.
et seq.,
or is eligible to become an insured depository institution under that Act.
Fiscal agency check means a check for a payment in connection with a United States security drawn upon a Reserve Bank and issued on our behalf by the Reserve Bank in its capacity as fiscal agent of the United States.
Fiscal agency check
means a check for a payment in connection with a United States security drawn upon a Reserve Bank and issued on our behalf by the Reserve Bank in its capacity as fiscal agent of the United States.
Payee (or “you”) means the person or persons to whom a fiscal agency check is made payable.
Payee (or “you”)
means the person or persons to whom a fiscal agency check is made payable.
Payor Reserve Bank means the Reserve Bank on which a fiscal agency check is drawn.
Payor Reserve Bank
means the Reserve Bank on which a fiscal agency check is drawn.
Presenting bank means a depository institution that sends a fiscal agency check directly to a Reserve Bank for payment or collection.
Presenting bank
means a depository institution that sends a fiscal agency check directly to a Reserve Bank for payment or collection.
Reserve Bank or Federal Reserve Bank means any Federal Reserve Bank or any branch of a Federal Reserve Bank.
Reserve Bank or Federal Reserve Bank
means any Federal Reserve Bank or any branch of a Federal Reserve Bank.
Security, for the purpose of this part, means a direct obligation of the United States, including a Treasury bill, note, bond or savings bond/note.
Security,
for the purpose of this part, means a direct obligation of the United States, including a Treasury bill, note, bond or savings bond/note.
We (or “us”) refers to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agency acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates. The term does not refer to a United States Savings Bond issuing or paying agent.
We (or “us”)
refers to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agency acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates. The term does not refer to a United States Savings Bond issuing or paying agent.

§ 355.3   Where can I cash my fiscal agency check?

Presentment of a fiscal agency check must be made to the payor Reserve Bank. The payor Reserve Bank will only cash a fiscal agency check presented by the payee who can be identified to the satisfaction of the Reserve Bank. Otherwise, a fiscal agency check must be presented through banking channels. A refusal to accept or to pay fiscal agency check presented by a person other than the payee, or by a payee who is not reasonably identified, does not constitute dishonor.

§ 355.4   Is there a time limit on cashing a fiscal agency check?

A payor Reserve Bank may refuse to pay a fiscal agency check presented more than six (6) months after the issue date of the check. If the check is not presented within this time, you must follow the procedures in § 355.10.

§ 355.5   What warranties does a presenting bank make?

(a) A presenting bank makes the warranties required of a sender under subpart A of regulation J (12 CFR part 210). This paragraph does not limit any warranty by a presenter or other party arising under State law.
(b) We are not barred from recovering on a breach of warranty solely because:
(1) Our negligence contributed to a fraudulent endorsement or material alteration;
(2) We did not promptly discover an unauthorized signature or alteration;
(3) An impostor fraudulently caused the issuance of a fiscal agency check in the name of any existing payee; or
(4) Our employee fraudulently caused the issuance of a fiscal agency check in the name of any existing payee.

§ 355.6   What happens if the presenting bank breaches its warranty?

If the presenting bank breaches its warranty, the payor Reserve Bank may either return the check to the presenting bank or send notice of the breach to the presenting bank. If the presenting bank does not make prompt restitution when it receives the returned check or notice of breach, we may begin appropriate collection procedures.

§ 355.7   What notice should I give if I do not receive my check or if a check is lost, stolen, or destroyed?

If a fiscal agency check is not received within a reasonable time after a payment is due, or if a check is lost, stolen, or destroyed, you must provide prompt written notification. Your written notice may be sent to us or to the payor Reserve Bank. You may give notice by telephone, but we will not issue a replacement check until you confirm the notice in writing. The written notice must provide enough information for us to identify the account and the security to which the payment relates. We will stop payment on the fiscal agency check if we have a reasonable time to act before final payment.

§ 355.8   How can I get a replacement fiscal agency check?

The payor Federal Reserve Bank will issue a replacement fiscal agency check if:
(a) You submit written notice:
(b) The check is unpaid;
(c) We determine that recovery of the original check is unlikely; and
(d) The payee and endorsee, if any, of the check execute the required indemnification agreement.

§ 355.9   What should I do if I recover a check reported as lost, stolen, destroyed, or not received?

If you recover the original check you must notify us in writing. If we have not yet issued a replacement check, we will remove the stop payment order against the original check. If we have already issued a replacement check, you must return the original check to us.

§ 355.10   What happens if I present my check to the payor Reserve Bank more than six months after the issue date of the check?

If the payor Reserve Bank refuses payment on a fiscal agency check solely because it is presented more than six (6) months after the issue date of the check, a replacement check will be issued if you:
(a) Surrender the original check; and
(b) Executive the required indemnification agreement.

§ 355.11   What should I do if the endorsement on my check is forged or unauthorized?

If we verify the existence or a forged or unauthorized endorsement on a paid fiscal agency check, the payor Reserve Bank will issue a replacement check to the person entitled. The payee or endorsee must execute an affidavit that there has been a forged or unauthorized endorsement. We may also require an indemnification agreement.

§ 355.12   What requirements apply if the check is payable to two or more persons?

If the fiscal agency check is payable to two or more persons, the requirements of this part apply to all designated payees.

§ 355.13   Are there any additional requirements related to fiscal agency checks?

We may require an indemnification agreement, with or without surety. You must provide any additional evidence we consider necessary. We will require any information necessary for the protection of the interests of the United States.

§ 355.14   Can these regulations be waived?

We reserve the right, in our discretion, to waive any provision of the regulations in this part in any case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States, or to relieve any person of unnecessary hardship, if the waiver is not inconsistent with law and will not subject the United States to substantial expense or liability.

§ 355.15   Can these regulations be amended?

We may, at any time, supplement, amend, or revise the regulations in this part.

PART 356—SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, FISCAL SERVICE SERIES NO. 1-93)

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3102, et seq.; 12 U.S.C. 391.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3102,
et seq.;
12 U.S.C. 391.
[Source:69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 356 appear at 70 FR 57439, Sept. 30, 2005.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 356.0   What authority does the Treasury have to sell and issue securities?

Chapter 31 of Title 31 of the United States Code authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to issue United States obligations, and to offer them for sale with the terms and conditions that the Secretary prescribes.

§ 356.1   To which securities does this circular apply?

The provisions in this part, including the appendices, and each individual auction announcement govern the sale and issuance of marketable Treasury securities issued on or after March 1, 1993. This part also governs all securities eligible for the STRIPS (Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of Securities) Program (See § 356.31.). In addition, these provisions and the auction announcements govern any other types of securities we may issue under this part.

§ 356.2   What definitions do I need to know to understand this part?

13-week bill means a Treasury bill where the security description is “13-Week Bill” as referenced on the Treasury auction announcement.
13-week bill
means a Treasury bill where the security description is “13-Week Bill” as referenced on the Treasury auction announcement.
Accrued interest means an amount that bidders must pay to us for interest income as part of the settlement amount. Accrued interest compensates us up front for interest that bidders will be paid but did not earn because it is attributable to a period of time prior to the issue date. (See appendix B, section I, paragraph D of this part for additional explanation and examples.)
Accrued interest
means an amount that bidders must pay to us for interest income as part of the settlement amount. Accrued interest compensates us up front for interest that bidders will be paid but did not earn because it is attributable to a period of time prior to the issue date. (See appendix B, section I, paragraph D of this part for additional explanation and examples.)
Adjusted value means, for an interest component stripped from an inflation-protected security, an amount derived by:
Adjusted value
means, for an interest component stripped from an inflation-protected security, an amount derived by:
(1) Multiplying the semiannual interest rate by the par amount, and then
(2) Multiplying this value by: 100 divided by the Reference CPI of the original issue date (or dated date, when the dated date is different from the original issue date). (See appendix B, section V of this part for an example of how to calculate the adjusted value.)
Auction means a bidding process by which we sell marketable Treasury securities to the public.
Auction
means a bidding process by which we sell marketable Treasury securities to the public.
Autocharge agreement means an agreement in a format acceptable to Treasury between a submitter or clearing corporation and a depository institution that authorizes us to:
Autocharge agreement
means an agreement in a format acceptable to Treasury between a submitter or clearing corporation and a depository institution that authorizes us to:
(1) Deliver awarded securities to the book-entry securities account of a designated depository institution in the commercial book-entry system, and
(2) Charge a funds account of a designated depository institution for the settlement amount of the securities.
Bid means an offer to purchase a stated par amount of securities, either competitively or noncompetitively, in an auction.
Bid
means an offer to purchase a stated par amount of securities, either competitively or noncompetitively, in an auction.
Bid-to-cover ratio means the total par amount of securities bid for in an auction divided by the total par amount of securities awarded. It excludes bids by, and awards to, the Federal Reserve for its own account.
Bid-to-cover ratio
means the total par amount of securities bid for in an auction divided by the total par amount of securities awarded. It excludes bids by, and awards to, the Federal Reserve for its own account.
Bidder, as further defined in appendix A, means a person or an entity that offers to purchase Treasury securities in an auction either directly or through a depository institution or dealer. We may consider two or more persons or entities to be one bidder based on their relationship or their actions in participating in an auction. We consider a controlled account to be a bidder when an investment adviser bids in the name of the controlled account (See § 356.15.).
Bidder,
as further defined in appendix A, means a person or an entity that offers to purchase Treasury securities in an auction either directly or through a depository institution or dealer. We may consider two or more persons or entities to be one bidder based on their relationship or their actions in participating in an auction. We consider a controlled account to be a bidder when an investment adviser bids in the name of the controlled account (See § 356.15.).
Bidder Identification Number means a number we assign to each institutional submitter and to certain other bidders. We assign such numbers either to identify certain bidders or to grant separate bidder status to different parts of the same corporate or partnership structure.
Bidder Identification Number
means a number we assign to each institutional submitter and to certain other bidders. We assign such numbers either to identify certain bidders or to grant separate bidder status to different parts of the same corporate or partnership structure.
Book-entry security means a security that is issued or maintained as an accounting entry or electronic record. (See § 356.4.)
Book-entry security
means a security that is issued or maintained as an accounting entry or electronic record. (
See
§ 356.4.)
Business day means any day on which the Federal Reserve Banks are open for business.
Business day
means any day on which the Federal Reserve Banks are open for business.
Call means the redemption of a security prior to maturity under the terms specified in its auction announcement.
Call
means the redemption of a security prior to maturity under the terms specified in its auction announcement.
Certificate of indebtedness means a one-day non-interest-bearing security that may be held in TreasuryDirect and that automatically matures and is rolled over each day until its owner requests that it be redeemed.
Certificate of indebtedness
means a one-day non-interest-bearing security that may be held in TreasuryDirect and that automatically matures and is rolled over each day until its owner requests that it be redeemed.
Clearing corporation means a clearing agency as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)). A clearing corporation must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and its rules.
Clearing corporation
means a clearing agency as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)). A clearing corporation must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and its rules.
Competitive bid means a bid to purchase a stated par amount of securities at a specified yield, discount rate, or discount margin.
Competitive bid
means a bid to purchase a stated par amount of securities at a specified yield, discount rate, or discount margin.
Consumer Price Index (CPI) means the monthly non-seasonally adjusted U.S. City Average All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor. We use the CPI as the basis for adjusting the principal amounts of inflation-protected securities. (See appendix D.)
Consumer Price Index
(CPI) means the monthly non-seasonally adjusted U.S. City Average All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor. We use the CPI as the basis for adjusting the principal amounts of inflation-protected securities. (See appendix D.)
Corpus means the principal component of a security that has been stripped of its interest components.
Corpus
means the principal component of a security that has been stripped of its interest components.
CUSIP number means the unique identifying number assigned to each separate security issue and each separate STRIPS component. CUSIP numbers are provided by the CUSIP Service Bureau of Standard & Poor's Corporation. CUSIP is an acronym for Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures.
CUSIP number
means the unique identifying number assigned to each separate security issue and each separate STRIPS component. CUSIP numbers are provided by the CUSIP Service Bureau of Standard & Poor's Corporation. CUSIP is an acronym for Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures.
Customer means a bidder that directs a depository institution or dealer to submit or forward a bid for a specific amount of securities in a specific auction on the bidder's behalf. Only depository institutions and dealers may submit bids for customers directly to us, or forward them to another depository institution or dealer.
Customer
means a bidder that directs a depository institution or dealer to submit or forward a bid for a specific amount of securities in a specific auction on the bidder's behalf. Only depository institutions and dealers may submit bids for customers directly to us, or forward them to another depository institution or dealer.
Dated date means the date from which interest accrues for notes and bonds. The dated date and issue date are usually the same. In those cases where interest begins accruing prior to the issue date, however, the dated date will be prior to the issue date. An example is when the dated date is a Saturday and the issue date is the following Monday.
Dated date
means the date from which interest accrues for notes and bonds. The dated date and issue date are usually the same. In those cases where interest begins accruing prior to the issue date, however, the dated date will be prior to the issue date. An example is when the dated date is a Saturday and the issue date is the following Monday.
Dealer means an entity that is registered or has given notice of its status as a government securities broker or government securities dealer under Section 15C(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Dealer
means an entity that is registered or has given notice of its status as a government securities broker or government securities dealer under Section 15C(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Delivery and payment agreement means a written agreement between a clearing corporation and a submitter, acknowledged by a Federal Reserve Bank, regarding securities awarded to the submitter for its own account. It authorizes us to deliver such securities to, and accept payment from, a depository institution acting on behalf of the clearing corporation under an acknowledged autocharge agreement.
Delivery and payment agreement
means a written agreement between a clearing corporation and a submitter, acknowledged by a Federal Reserve Bank, regarding securities awarded to the submitter for its own account. It authorizes us to deliver such securities to, and accept payment from, a depository institution acting on behalf of the clearing corporation under an acknowledged autocharge agreement.
Depository institution means:
Depository institution
means:
(1) An entity described in Section 19(b)(1)(A), excluding subparagraph (vii), of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)).
(2) Any agency or branch of a foreign bank as defined by the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101).
Discount means the difference between par and the price of the security, when the price is less than par. (See appendix B for formulas and examples.)
Discount
means the difference between par and the price of the security, when the price is less than par. (See appendix B for formulas and examples.)
Discount amount means the discount divided by 100 and multiplied by the par amount. (See appendix B for formulas and examples.)
Discount amount
means the discount divided by 100 and multiplied by the par amount. (See appendix B for formulas and examples.)
Discount margin means the margin over the index that equates the present values of the assumed cash flows on a floating rate note to the sum of the price of and accrued interest on the floating rate note. The assumed cash flows are calculated based upon the index rate applicable to the dated date. Bidders in floating rate note auctions bid on the basis of discount margin. (See appendix B.)
Discount margin
means the margin over the index that equates the present values of the assumed cash flows on a floating rate note to the sum of the price of and accrued interest on the floating rate note. The assumed cash flows are calculated based upon the index rate applicable to the dated date. Bidders in floating rate note auctions bid on the basis of discount margin. (See appendix B.)
Discount rate means a rate of return, on an annual basis, on bills held until they mature. The discount rate is expressed in percentage terms and based on a 360-day year. It is also referred to as the “bank discount rate.” (See appendix B for formulas and examples.)
Discount rate
means a rate of return, on an annual basis, on bills held until they mature. The discount rate is expressed in percentage terms and based on a 360-day year. It is also referred to as the “bank discount rate.” (See appendix B for formulas and examples.)
Funds account means a cash account maintained by a depository institution at a Federal Reserve Bank.
Funds account
means a cash account maintained by a depository institution at a Federal Reserve Bank.
Index means the Consumer Price Index for inflation-protected securities. For floating rate notes, the index is the highest accepted discount rate on 13-week bills determined by Treasury auctions of those securities.
Index
means the Consumer Price Index for inflation-protected securities. For floating rate notes, the index is the highest accepted discount rate on 13-week bills determined by Treasury auctions of those securities.
Index rate means the simple-interest money market yield, computed on an actual/360 basis and rounded to nine decimal places, from the highest accepted discount rate of a 13-week bill auction as announced in the Treasury auction results. (See appendix B for methods and examples for computing the index rate.)
Index rate
means the simple-interest money market yield, computed on an actual/360 basis and rounded to nine decimal places, from the highest accepted discount rate of a 13-week bill auction as announced in the Treasury auction results. (
See
appendix B for methods and examples for computing the index rate.)
Index ratio means, for an inflation-protected security, the Reference CPI of a particular date divided by the Reference CPI of the original issue date. (When the dated date is different from the original issue date, the denominator of the index ratio is the Reference CPI of the dated date rather than that of the original issue date.)
Index ratio
means, for an inflation-protected security, the Reference CPI of a particular date divided by the Reference CPI of the original issue date. (When the dated date is different from the original issue date, the denominator of the index ratio is the Reference CPI of the dated date rather than that of the original issue date.)
Inflation-adjusted principal means, for an inflation-protected security, the value of the security derived by multiplying the par amount by the applicable index ratio as described in appendix B, section I, paragraph B.
Inflation-adjusted principal
means, for an inflation-protected security, the value of the security derived by multiplying the par amount by the applicable index ratio as described in appendix B, section I, paragraph B.
Interest rate means the annual percentage rate of interest paid on the par amount (or the inflation-adjusted principal) of a specific issue of notes or bonds. (See appendix B for methods and examples of interest calculations on notes and bonds.)
Interest rate
means the annual percentage rate of interest paid on the par amount (or the inflation-adjusted principal) of a specific issue of notes or bonds. (See appendix B for methods and examples of interest calculations on notes and bonds.)
Intermediary means a depository institution or dealer that forwards bids for customers to another depository institution or dealer. An intermediary does not submit bids directly to us.
Intermediary
means a depository institution or dealer that forwards bids for customers to another depository institution or dealer. An intermediary does not submit bids directly to us.
Issue date means the date specified in the auction announcement on which we issue a security as an obligation of the United States. Interest normally begins to accrue on a security's issue date.
Issue date
means the date specified in the auction announcement on which we issue a security as an obligation of the United States. Interest normally begins to accrue on a security's issue date.
Marketable security means a security that may be bought, sold and transferred in the secondary market.
Marketable security
means a security that may be bought, sold and transferred in the secondary market.
Maturity date means the date on which a security becomes due and payable, and ceases to earn interest. The maturity date is specified in the auction announcement.
Maturity date
means the date on which a security becomes due and payable, and ceases to earn interest. The maturity date is specified in the auction announcement.
Minimum to bid means the smallest amount of a security that may be bid for in an auction as stated in the auction announcement.
Minimum to bid
means the smallest amount of a security that may be bid for in an auction as stated in the auction announcement.
Multiple to bid means the smallest additional amount of a security that may be bid for in an auction as stated in the auction announcement.
Multiple to bid
means the smallest additional amount of a security that may be bid for in an auction as stated in the auction announcement.
Multiple-price auction means an auction in which each successful competitive bidder pays the price equivalent to the yield, discount rate, or discount margin that it bid.
Multiple-price auction
means an auction in which each successful competitive bidder pays the price equivalent to the yield, discount rate, or discount margin that it bid.
Noncompetitive bid means, for a single-price auction, a bid to purchase a stated par amount of securities at the highest yield, discount rate, or discount margin awarded to competitive bidders. For a multiple-price auction, a noncompetitive bid means a bid to purchase securities at the weighted average yield, discount rate, or discount margin of awards to competitive bidders.
Noncompetitive bid
means, for a single-price auction, a bid to purchase a stated par amount of securities at the highest yield, discount rate, or discount margin awarded to competitive bidders. For a multiple-price auction, a noncompetitive bid means a bid to purchase securities at the weighted average yield, discount rate, or discount margin of awards to competitive bidders.
Offering amount means the par amount of securities we are offering to the public for purchase in an auction, as specified in the auction announcement.
Offering amount
means the par amount of securities we are offering to the public for purchase in an auction, as specified in the auction announcement.
Par means a price of 100. (See appendix B.)
Par
means a price of 100. (See appendix B.)
Par amount means the stated value of a security at original issuance.
Par amount
means the stated value of a security at original issuance.
Person means a natural person.
Person
means a natural person.
Premium means the difference between par and the price of the security, when the price is greater than par.
Premium
means the difference between par and the price of the security, when the price is greater than par.
Premium amount means the premium divided by 100 and multiplied by the par amount.
Premium amount
means the premium divided by 100 and multiplied by the par amount.
Price means the price of a security per 100 dollars of its stated value as calculated using the formulas in appendix B.
Price
means the price of a security per 100 dollars of its stated value as calculated using the formulas in appendix B.
Real yield means, for an inflation-protected security, the yield based on the payment stream in constant dollars. In other words, the real yield is the yield in the absence of inflation.
Real yield
means, for an inflation-protected security, the yield based on the payment stream in constant dollars. In other words, the real yield is the yield in the absence of inflation.
Reference CPI (Ref CPI) means, for an inflation-protected security, the index number applicable to a given date. (See appendix B, section I, paragraph B.)
Reference CPI
(Ref CPI) means, for an inflation-protected security, the index number applicable to a given date. (See appendix B, section I, paragraph B.)
Reopening means the auction of an additional amount of an outstanding security.
Reopening
means the auction of an additional amount of an outstanding security.
Security means a Treasury bill, note, or bond, each as described in this part. Security also means any other obligation we issue that is subject to this part according to its auction announcement. Security includes an interest or principal component under the STRIPS program, as well as a certificate of indebtedness.
Security
means a Treasury bill, note, or bond, each as described in this part. Security also means any other obligation we issue that is subject to this part according to its auction announcement. Security includes an interest or principal component under the STRIPS program, as well as a certificate of indebtedness.
Settlement means final and complete payment for securities awarded in an auction and delivery of those securities.
Settlement
means final and complete payment for securities awarded in an auction and delivery of those securities.
Settlement amount means the total of the par amount of securities awarded, less any discount amount or plus any premium amount, and plus any accrued interest. For inflation-protected securities, the settlement amount also includes any inflation adjustment when such securities are reopened or when the dated date is different from the issue date.
Settlement amount
means the total of the par amount of securities awarded, less any discount amount or plus any premium amount, and plus any accrued interest. For inflation-protected securities, the settlement amount also includes any inflation adjustment when such securities are reopened or when the dated date is different from the issue date.
Single-price auction means an auction in which all successful bidders pay the same price regardless of the yields, discount rates, or discount margins they each bid.
Single-price auction
means an auction in which all successful bidders pay the same price regardless of the yields, discount rates, or discount margins they each bid.
Spread means the fixed amount over the life of a floating rate note that is added to the index rate in order to determine the interest rate of the floating rate note. The spread will be determined in the auction of a new floating rate note and is expressed in tenths of a basis point (i.e., to three decimals). Additionally, the spread will be equal to the high discount margin at the time a new floating rate note is auctioned.
Spread
means the fixed amount over the life of a floating rate note that is added to the index rate in order to determine the interest rate of the floating rate note. The spread will be determined in the auction of a new floating rate note and is expressed in tenths of a basis point (
i.e.
, to three decimals). Additionally, the spread will be equal to the high discount margin at the time a new floating rate note is auctioned.
STRIPS (Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of Securities) means our program under which eligible securities are authorized to be separated into principal and interest components, and transferred separately. These components are maintained and transferred in the commercial book-entry system.
STRIPS
(Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of Securities) means our program under which eligible securities are authorized to be separated into principal and interest components, and transferred separately. These components are maintained and transferred in the commercial book-entry system.
Submitter means a person or entity submitting bids directly to us for its own account, for customer accounts, or both. Only depository institutions and dealers are permitted to submit bids for customer accounts. We permit investment advisers to submit bids on behalf of controlled accounts.
Submitter
means a person or entity submitting bids directly to us for its own account, for customer accounts, or both. Only depository institutions and dealers are permitted to submit bids for customer accounts. We permit investment advisers to submit bids on behalf of controlled accounts.
TINT means an interest component from a stripped security.
TINT
means an interest component from a stripped security.
We (or “us”) means the Secretary of the Treasury and his or her delegates, including the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, and their representatives. The term also includes Federal Reserve Banks acting as fiscal agents of the United States.
We
(or “us”) means the Secretary of the Treasury and his or her delegates, including the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, and their representatives. The term also includes Federal Reserve Banks acting as fiscal agents of the United States.
Weighted-average means the average of the yields, discount rates, or discount margins at which we award securities to competitive bidders in multiple-price auctions weighted by the par amount of securities allotted at each yield, discount rate, or discount margin.
Weighted-average
means the average of the yields, discount rates, or discount margins at which we award securities to competitive bidders in multiple-price auctions weighted by the par amount of securities allotted at each yield, discount rate, or discount margin.
Yield means the annualized rate of return to maturity on a non-indexed security. Yield is expressed as a percentage. For an inflation-protected security, yield means the real yield. Yield is also referred to as “yield to maturity.” (See appendix B.)
Yield
means the annualized rate of return to maturity on a non-indexed security. Yield is expressed as a percentage. For an inflation-protected security, yield means the real yield. Yield is also referred to as “yield to maturity.” (See appendix B.)
You means a prospective bidder in an auction.
You
means a prospective bidder in an auction.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 57439, Sept. 30, 2005; 73 FR 14938, Mar. 20, 2008; 76 FR 18063, Apr. 1, 2011; 78 FR 46428, July 31, 2013; 81 FR 43070, July 1, 2016; 87 FR 40439, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.3   What is the role of the Federal Reserve Banks in this process?

The Treasury Department authorizes Federal Reserve Banks, as fiscal agents of the United States, to perform all activities necessary to carry out the provisions of this part, any auction announcements, and applicable regulations.

§ 356.4   What are the book-entry systems in which auctioned Treasury securities may be issued or maintained?

We issue marketable Treasury securities into the commercial book-entry system and into accounts maintained directly on the records of the Department of the Treasury (“securities held directly with Treasury”).
(a) The commercial book-entry system. When depository institutions or dealers submit bids for Treasury securities in an auction, securities awarded as a result of those bids are generally held in the commercial book-entry system. Specifically, we maintain book-entry accounts in the National Book-Entry System ® (“NBES”) for Federal Reserve Banks, depository institutions, and other authorized entities, such as government and international agencies and foreign central banks. In their accounts, depository institutions maintain securities held for their own account and for the accounts of others. The accounts held for others include those of other depository institutions and dealers, which may, in turn, maintain accounts for others.
The commercial book-entry system.
When depository institutions or dealers submit bids for Treasury securities in an auction, securities awarded as a result of those bids are generally held in the commercial book-entry system. Specifically, we maintain book-entry accounts in the National Book-Entry System ® (“NBES”) for Federal Reserve Banks, depository institutions, and other authorized entities, such as government and international agencies and foreign central banks. In their accounts, depository institutions maintain securities held for their own account and for the accounts of others. The accounts held for others include those of other depository institutions and dealers, which may, in turn, maintain accounts for others.
(b) Securities held directly with Treasury. Account holders maintain accounts in a book-entry system directly on the records of the Department of the Treasury. Securities held directly with Treasury are subject to the terms and conditions in this part, the auction announcement, and the regulations governing the system in which the securities are held. (See subtitle B, chapter II of this title.)
Securities held directly with Treasury.
Account holders maintain accounts in a book-entry system directly on the records of the Department of the Treasury. Securities held directly with Treasury are subject to the terms and conditions in this part, the auction announcement, and the regulations governing the system in which the securities are held. (
See
subtitle B, chapter II of this title.)
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 57439, Sept. 30, 2005; 72 FR 2193, Jan. 18, 2007; 71 FR 2928, Jan. 23, 2007; 73 FR 14938, Mar. 20, 2008; 76 FR 18063, Apr. 1, 2011; 87 FR 40439, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.5   What types of securities does the Treasury auction?

We offer securities under this part exclusively in book-entry form and as direct obligations of the United States issued under Chapter 31 of Title 31 of the United States Code. When we issue additional securities with the same CUSIP number as outstanding securities, we consider them to be the same securities as the outstanding securities.
(a) Treasury bills. (1) Are issued at a discount or at par, depending upon the auction results;
Treasury bills.
(1) Are issued at a discount or at par, depending upon the auction results;
(2) Are redeemed at their par amount at maturity; and
(3) Have maturities of not more than one year.
(b) Treasury notes. (1) Treasury non-indexed 
1
 notes.
Treasury notes.
(1) Treasury non-indexed
1
notes.
1 We use the term “non-indexed” in this part to distinguish such notes and bonds from “inflation-protected securities” and “floating rate notes.” We refer to non-indexed notes and non-indexed bonds as “notes” and “bonds” in official Treasury publications, such as auction announcements and auction results, as well as in auction systems.
1
We use the term “non-indexed” in this part to distinguish such notes and bonds from “inflation-protected securities” and “floating rate notes.” We refer to non-indexed notes and non-indexed bonds as “notes” and “bonds” in official Treasury publications, such as auction announcements and auction results, as well as in auction systems.
(i) Are issued with a stated rate of interest to be applied to the par amount;
(ii) Have interest payable semiannually;
(iii) Are redeemed at their par amount at maturity;
(iv) Are sold at discount, par, or premium, depending upon the auction results; and
(v) Have maturities of at least one year, but of not more than ten years.
(2) Treasury inflation-protected notes. (i) Are issued with a stated rate of interest to be applied to the inflation-adjusted principal on each interest payment date;
Treasury inflation-protected notes.
(i) Are issued with a stated rate of interest to be applied to the inflation-adjusted principal on each interest payment date;
(ii) Have interest payable semiannually;
(iii) Are redeemed at maturity at their inflation-adjusted principal, or at their par amount, whichever is greater;
(iv) Are sold at discount, par, or premium, depending on the auction results (See appendix B for price and interest payment calculations and appendix C for Investment Considerations.); and
(v) Have maturities of at least one year, but not more than ten years.
(vi) Are only reopened as scheduled or announced.
(3) Treasury floating rate notes. (i) Are issued with a stated spread to be added to the index rate for daily interest accrual throughout each interest payment period;
Treasury floating rate notes.
(i) Are issued with a stated spread to be added to the index rate for daily interest accrual throughout each interest payment period;
(ii) Have a zero-percent minimum daily interest accrual rate;
(iii) Have interest payable quarterly;
(iv) Are redeemed at their par amount at maturity;
(v) Are sold at discount, par, or premium depending on the auction results (See appendix B for price and interest payment calculations and appendix C for Investment Considerations.); and
(vi) Have maturities of at least one year, but not more than ten years.
(c) Treasury bonds. (1) Treasury non-indexed bonds. (i) Are issued with a stated rate of interest to be applied to the par amount;
Treasury bonds.
(1) Treasury non-indexed bonds. (i) Are issued with a stated rate of interest to be applied to the par amount;
(ii) Have interest payable semiannually;
(iii) Are redeemed at their par amount at maturity;
(iv) Are sold at discount, par, or premium, depending on the auction results; and
(v) Have maturities of more than ten years.
(2) Treasury inflation-protected bonds. (i) Are issued with a stated rate of interest to be applied to the inflation-adjusted principal on each interest payment date;
Treasury inflation-protected bonds.
(i) Are issued with a stated rate of interest to be applied to the inflation-adjusted principal on each interest payment date;
(ii) Have interest payable semiannually;
(iii) Are redeemed at maturity at their inflation-adjusted principal, or at their par amount, whichever is greater;
(iv) Are sold at discount, par, or premium, depending on the auction results; and
(v) Have maturities of more than ten years. (See appendix B for price and interest payment calculations and appendix C for Investment Considerations.)
(vi) Are only reopened as scheduled or announced.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 57439, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 26086, June 1, 2009; 78 FR 46428, 46429, July 31, 2013; 87 FR 40439, July 7, 2022]]

Subpart B—Bidding, Certifications, and Payment


§ 356.10   What is the purpose of an auction announcement?

By issuing an auction announcement, we provide public notice of the sale of bills, notes, and bonds. The auction announcement lists the specifics of each auction, e.g., offering amount, term and type of security, CUSIP number, and issue and maturity dates. The auction announcement and this part, including the Appendices, specify the terms and conditions of sale. If anything in the auction announcement differs from this part, the auction announcement will control. If you intend to bid, you should read the applicable auction announcement along with this part.

§ 356.11   How are bids submitted in an auction?

(a) General. (1) All bids must be submitted using an approved method, which depends on the system into which the awarded securities will be issued. (See § 356.4.)  The approved submission methods for these respective systems are explained in this section. A bidder must provide its assigned bidder identification numbers if it has been assigned one. We have the option of accepting or rejecting incomplete bids.
General.
(1) All bids must be submitted using an approved method, which depends on the system into which the awarded securities will be issued. (
See
§ 356.4.)  The approved submission methods for these respective systems are explained in this section. A bidder must provide its assigned bidder identification numbers if it has been assigned one. We have the option of accepting or rejecting incomplete bids.
(2) We must receive competitive and noncompetitive bids prior to their respective closing times, which are stated in the auction announcement. We will not include late bids in the auction. For bids other than those submitted on paper forms, our computer time stamp will establish the receipt time. You are bound by your bids after the closing time.
(3) We are not responsible for any delays, errors, or omissions. We are not responsible for any failures or disruptions of equipment or communications facilities used for participating in Treasury auctions.
(4) Submitters are responsible for bids submitted using computer equipment on their premises, whether or not such bids are authorized.
(b) Commercial book-entry system. (1) If you are a submitter and the awarded securities are to be issued in the commercial book-entry system, you must submit bids using one of our approved electronic methods except for contingency situations.
Commercial book-entry system.
(1) If you are a submitter and the awarded securities are to be issued in the commercial book-entry system, you must submit bids using one of our approved electronic methods except for contingency situations.
(2) You must have an agreement on file with us under which you agree to our terms and conditions for access to our system for participating in our auctions.
(3) In contingency situations, such as a power outage, we may accept bids by a telephone call to designated Treasury employees if you submit them prior to the relevant bidding deadline.
(c) Securities held directly with Treasury. You must submit your bids in accordance with the regulations governing the system in which the security will be held. You may reinvest the proceeds of a maturing security held directly with Treasury as permitted by the system in which it is held.
Securities held directly with Treasury.
You must submit your bids in accordance with the regulations governing the system in which the security will be held. You may reinvest the proceeds of a maturing security held directly with Treasury as permitted by the system in which it is held.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 57440, Sept. 30, 2005; 87 FR 40439, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.12   What are the different types of bids and do they have specific requirements or restrictions?

(a) General. All bids must state the par amount of securities bid for and must equal or exceed the minimum to bid amount stated in the auction announcement. Bids in larger amounts must be in the multiple stated in the auction announcement.
General.
All bids must state the par amount of securities bid for and must equal or exceed the minimum to bid amount stated in the auction announcement. Bids in larger amounts must be in the multiple stated in the auction announcement.
(b) Noncompetitive bids—(1) Maximum bid. You may not bid noncompetitively for more than $10 million. The maximum bid limitation does not apply if you are bidding solely through a request to reinvest the proceeds of a maturing security held directly with Treasury, which is a noncompetitive bid.
Noncompetitive bids
—(1)
Maximum bid.
You may not bid noncompetitively for more than $10 million. The maximum bid limitation does not apply if you are bidding solely through a request to reinvest the proceeds of a maturing security held directly with Treasury, which is a noncompetitive bid.
(2) Additional restrictions. You may not bid noncompetitively in an auction in which you are bidding competitively. You may not bid noncompetitively if, in the security being auctioned, you hold a position in when-issued trading or in futures or forward contracts at any time between the date of the auction announcement and the time we announce the auction results. During this same timeframe, a noncompetitive bidder may not enter into any agreement to purchase or sell or otherwise dispose of the securities it is acquiring in the auction. For this paragraph, futures contracts include those:
Additional restrictions.
You may not bid noncompetitively in an auction in which you are bidding competitively. You may not bid noncompetitively if, in the security being auctioned, you hold a position in when-issued trading or in futures or forward contracts at any time between the date of the auction announcement and the time we announce the auction results. During this same timeframe, a noncompetitive bidder may not enter into any agreement to purchase or sell or otherwise dispose of the securities it is acquiring in the auction. For this paragraph, futures contracts include those:
(i) That require delivery of the specific security being auctioned;
(ii) For which the security being auctioned is one of several securities that may be delivered; or
(iii) That are cash-settled.
(c) Competitive bids—(1) Bid format—(i) Treasury bills. A competitive bid must show the discount rate bid, expressed with three decimals in .005 increments. The third decimal must be either a zero or a five, for example, 5.320 or 5.325. We will treat any missing decimals as zero, for example, a bid of 5.32 will be treated as 5.320. The rate bid may be a positive number or zero.
Competitive bids
—(1)
Bid format
—(i)
Treasury bills.
A competitive bid must show the discount rate bid, expressed with three decimals in .005 increments. The third decimal must be either a zero or a five, for example, 5.320 or 5.325. We will treat any missing decimals as zero, for example, a bid of 5.32 will be treated as 5.320. The rate bid may be a positive number or zero.
(ii) Treasury non-indexed securities. A competitive bid must show the yield bid, expressed with three decimals, for example, 4.170. We will treat any missing decimals as zero, for example, a bid of 4.1 will be treated as 4.100. The yield bid may be a positive number or zero.
Treasury non-indexed securities.
A competitive bid must show the yield bid, expressed with three decimals, for example, 4.170. We will treat any missing decimals as zero, for example, a bid of 4.1 will be treated as 4.100. The yield bid may be a positive number or zero.
(iii) Treasury inflation-protected securities. A competitive bid must show the real yield bid, expressed with three decimals, for example, 3.070. We will treat any missing decimals as zero, for example, a bid of 3 will be treated as 3.000. The real yield may be a positive number, a negative number, or zero.
Treasury inflation-protected securities.
A competitive bid must show the real yield bid, expressed with three decimals, for example, 3.070. We will treat any missing decimals as zero, for example, a bid of 3 will be treated as 3.000. The real yield may be a positive number, a negative number, or zero.
(iv) Treasury floating rate notes. A competitive bid must show the discount margin bid, expressed as a percentage with three decimals, for example, 0.290 percent. We will treat any missing decimals as zero, for example, a bid of 0.29 will be treated as 0.290. The discount margin bid may be positive, negative, or zero.
Treasury floating rate notes.
A competitive bid must show the discount margin bid, expressed as a percentage with three decimals, for example, 0.290 percent. We will treat any missing decimals as zero, for example, a bid of 0.29 will be treated as 0.290. The discount margin bid may be positive, negative, or zero.
(2) Maximum recognized bid. There is no limit on the maximum dollar amount that you may bid for competitively, either at a single yield, discount rate, or discount margin, or at different yields, discount rates, or discount margins. However, a competitive bid at a single yield, discount rate, or discount margin that exceeds 35 percent of the offering amount will be reduced to that amount. For example, if the offering amount is $10 billion, the maximum bid amount we will recognize at any one yield, discount rate, or discount margin from any bidder is $3.5 billion. (See § 356.22 for award limitations.)
Maximum recognized bid.
There is no limit on the maximum dollar amount that you may bid for competitively, either at a single yield, discount rate, or discount margin, or at different yields, discount rates, or discount margins. However, a competitive bid at a single yield, discount rate, or discount margin that exceeds 35 percent of the offering amount will be reduced to that amount. For example, if the offering amount is $10 billion, the maximum bid amount we will recognize at any one yield, discount rate, or discount margin from any bidder is $3.5 billion. (See § 356.22 for award limitations.)
(3) Additional restrictions. You may not bid competitively in an auction in which you are bidding noncompetitively. You may not bid competitively for securities to be held directly with Treasury.
Additional restrictions.
You may not bid competitively in an auction in which you are bidding noncompetitively. You may not bid competitively for securities to be held directly with Treasury.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 53621, Sept. 2, 2004; 70 FR 57440, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 26086, June 1, 2009; 78 FR 46428, 46429, July 31, 2013; 87 FR 40439, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.13   When must I report my net long position and how do I calculate it?

(a) Net long position reporting threshold. (1) If you are bidding competitively in an auction, you must report your net long position when the total of your bids plus your net long position in the security being auctioned equals or exceeds the net long position reporting threshold (See table.). We will specify this threshold in the auction announcement for each security (See § 356.10.). The threshold is typically 35 percent of the offering amount, but we may state a different threshold in the auction announcement. To see whether you must report your net long position, follow this table:
Net long position reporting threshold.
(1) If you are bidding competitively in an auction, you must report your net long position when the total of your bids plus your net long position in the security being auctioned equals or exceeds the net long position reporting threshold (
See
table.). We will specify this threshold in the auction announcement for each security (See § 356.10.). The threshold is typically 35 percent of the offering amount, but we may state a different threshold in the auction announcement. To see whether you must report your net long position, follow this table:
If . . .
And if . . .
Then . . .
(i) the total of your bids and your net long position in the security being auctioned equals or exceeds the reporting threshold
you must report your net long position (which does not include your bids).
(ii) the total of your bids in the auction equals or exceeds the reporting threshold
you have no position or a net short position in the security being auctioned
you must report a zero.
(iii) the total of your bids and your net long position in the security being auctioned is less than the reporting threshold
you may either report nothing (leave the field blank) or report your net long position.
(2) Also, if you have more than one bid in an auction and you must report either your net long position or a zero, you must report that figure only once. Finally, if you are a customer and must report either your net long position or a zero, you must report that figure through only one depository institution or dealer. (See § 356.14(d).)
(b) “As of” time for calculating net long position. You must calculate your net long position as of one half-hour prior to the closing time for receipt of competitive bids.
“As of” time for calculating net long position.
You must calculate your net long position as of one half-hour prior to the closing time for receipt of competitive bids.
(c) Components of the net long position. Except as modified in paragragh (d) of this section, your net long position is the sum total of the par amounts of:
Components of the net long position.
Except as modified in paragragh (d) of this section, your net long position is the sum total of the par amounts of:
(1) Your holdings of outstanding securities with the same CUSIP number as the security being auctioned;
(2) Your holdings of STRIPS principal components of the security being auctioned, and;
(3) Your positions, in the security being auctioned, in:
(i) When-issued trading, including when-issued trading positions of the STRIPS principal components;
(ii) Futures contracts that require delivery of the specific security being auctioned (but not futures contracts for which the security being auctioned is one of several securities that may be delivered, and not futures contracts that are cash-settled); and
(iii) Forward contracts that require delivery of the specific security being auctioned or of the STRIPS principal component of that security.
(d) Calculating the net long position in a reopening. In a reopening (additional issue) of an outstanding security, you may subtract the exclusion amount stated in the auction announcement from:
Calculating the net long position in a reopening.
In a reopening (additional issue) of an outstanding security, you may subtract the exclusion amount stated in the auction announcement from:
(1) Your holdings of the outstanding securities (paragraph (c)(1) of this section) combined with
(2) Your holdings of STRIPS principal components of the security being auctioned (paragraph (c)(2) of this section). We will specify the amount of holdings that you may exclude from the net long position calculation in the auction announcement. You may not take the exclusion if your combined holdings are zero or less. The exclusion is optional, but if you take the exclusion, you must include any holdings that exceed the exclusion amount in calculating your net long position. If the exclusion amount is greater than your combined holdings (paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section), you may calculate the combined holdings as zero, but they cannot be included in the calculation as a negative number.

§ 356.14   What are the requirements for submitting bids for customers?

(a) Institutions that may submit bids for customers. Only depository institutions or dealers may submit bids for customers (see definitions at § 356.2), or for customers of intermediaries, under the requirements set out in this section. If a bid fulfills a guarantee to sell to a customer a specified amount of securities at the price determined in the auction, then the bid is a bid of that customer.
Institutions that may submit bids for customers.
Only depository institutions or dealers may submit bids for customers (
see
definitions at § 356.2), or for customers of intermediaries, under the requirements set out in this section. If a bid fulfills a guarantee to sell to a customer a specified amount of securities at the price determined in the auction, then the bid is a bid of that customer.
(b) Payment. Submitters must remit payment for bids they submit on behalf of customers, including customers of intermediaries, that result in awards of securities in the auction.
Payment.
Submitters must remit payment for bids they submit on behalf of customers, including customers of intermediaries, that result in awards of securities in the auction.
(c) Identifying customers. Submitters must provide the names of customers whenever they submit bids for them. Submitters must provide the names of their direct customers as well as customers of any intermediaries who are forwarding customer bids. For individuals, submitters must provide the customer's full name (first and last). For institutional customers, submitters must provide the name of the institution, and the bidder identification number if the customer provides it. For trusts or other fiduciary estates (See appendix A.), submitters must provide on the customer list:
Identifying customers.
Submitters must provide the names of customers whenever they submit bids for them. Submitters must provide the names of their direct customers as well as customers of any intermediaries who are forwarding customer bids. For individuals, submitters must provide the customer's full name (first and last). For institutional customers, submitters must provide the name of the institution, and the bidder identification number if the customer provides it. For trusts or other fiduciary estates (See appendix A.), submitters must provide on the customer list:
(1) The full name or title of the trustee or fiduciary;
(2) A reference to the document creating the trust or fiduciary estate with date of execution; and
(3) The employer identification number (not social security number) of the trust or fiduciary estate. We do not consider trusts to be a separate bidder that have not been assigned, or that do not provide, an employer identification number.
(d) Competitive customer bids. For each customer competitive bid, the submitter must provide the customer's name, the amount bid, and the yield, discount rate, or discount margin. The submitter or intermediary must also report the net long position amount if the customer provides it. The submitter must inform a customer of the net long position reporting requirement (See § 356.13.) if the customer is bidding for $100 million or more of securities. If the submitter's or intermediary's personnel know that the customer's position information is not correct, the submitter or intermediary may not submit the customer's bid.
Competitive customer bids.
For each customer competitive bid, the submitter must provide the customer's name, the amount bid, and the yield, discount rate, or discount margin. The submitter or intermediary must also report the net long position amount if the customer provides it. The submitter must inform a customer of the net long position reporting requirement (See § 356.13.) if the customer is bidding for $100 million or more of securities. If the submitter's or intermediary's personnel know that the customer's position information is not correct, the submitter or intermediary may not submit the customer's bid.
(e) Noncompetitive customer bids. For each noncompetitive bid, the submitter must provide the customer's name and the amount bid. Submitters may either provide the customer's name with the bid or, if the list of customers is lengthy, the submitter may provide a summary bid amount covering all noncompetitive customers. If it provides a summary bid amount, the submitter must transmit the list of individual customers and their bid amounts by close of business on the auction day. However, the submitter must be able to provide the customer list details by the noncompetitive bidding deadline if requested.
Noncompetitive customer bids.
For each noncompetitive bid, the submitter must provide the customer's name and the amount bid. Submitters may either provide the customer's name with the bid or, if the list of customers is lengthy, the submitter may provide a summary bid amount covering all noncompetitive customers. If it provides a summary bid amount, the submitter must transmit the list of individual customers and their bid amounts by close of business on the auction day. However, the submitter must be able to provide the customer list details by the noncompetitive bidding deadline if requested.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 26086, June 1, 2009; 78 FR 46429, July 31, 2013; 87 FR 40440, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.15   What rules apply to bids submitted by investment advisers?

(a) General. The auction rules that apply to investment advisers are determined by the relationship between “investment advisers” and “controlled accounts.” An investment adviser means any person or entity that has investment discretion for the bids or positions of a different person or entity (a controlled account). A person or entity has investment discretion if it determines what, how many, and when securities will be purchased or sold on behalf of another person or entity. We consider a person that is employed or supervised by an investment adviser to be part of that investment adviser. We also consider the bids or positions of controlled accounts to be separate from the bids or positions of the person or entity with which they would otherwise be associated under the bidder categories in appendix A of this part.
General.
The auction rules that apply to investment advisers are determined by the relationship between “investment advisers” and “controlled accounts.” An investment adviser means any person or entity that has investment discretion for the bids or positions of a different person or entity (a controlled account). A person or entity has investment discretion if it determines what, how many, and when securities will be purchased or sold on behalf of another person or entity. We consider a person that is employed or supervised by an investment adviser to be part of that investment adviser. We also consider the bids or positions of controlled accounts to be separate from the bids or positions of the person or entity with which they would otherwise be associated under the bidder categories in appendix A of this part.
(b) Bidding options. (1) An investment adviser has two options for whose name to use when bidding on behalf of controlled accounts.
Bidding options.
(1) An investment adviser has two options for whose name to use when bidding on behalf of controlled accounts.
An investment adviser may bid for a controlled account . . .
In such cases, we consider the bidder to be . . .
(i) in the investment adviser's own name
the investment adviser.
(ii) in the name of the controlled account
the controlled account.
(2) Using the first option (paragraph (b)(1)(i)), an investment advisor could bid noncompetitively up to the noncompetitive bidding limit only for itself, as a single bidder. Using the second option (paragraph (b)(1)(ii)), an investment adviser could bid noncompetitively for each separately named controlled account up to the noncompetitive bidding limit. The investment adviser could also bid noncompetitively in its own name in the same auction up to the noncompetitive bidding limit. An investment adviser may not bid for a controlled account both noncompetitively and competitively in the same auction. If an investment adviser is bidding competitively in the name of a controlled account, the controlled account is subject to the award limitations of § 356.22(b).
(c) Reporting net long positions. If it is bidding competitively, an investment adviser must calculate the amount of its bids and positions for purposes of the net long position reporting requirement found in § 356.13(a). In addition to its own competitive bids and positions, the investment adviser must also include in the calculation all other competitive bids and positions that it controls. If the net long position is reportable, the investment adviser must report it as a total in connection with only one bid as stated in § 356.13(a). This requirement applies regardless of whether the investment adviser bids in its own name or in the name of its controlled accounts. The following table shows which positions an investment adviser must include to determine whether it meets the net long position reporting threshold in § 356.13(a). If an investment adviser does meet the reporting threshold, the table also shows which positions must be included in, and which may be excluded from, the net long position calculation.
Reporting net long positions.
If it is bidding competitively, an investment adviser must calculate the amount of its bids and positions for purposes of the net long position reporting requirement found in § 356.13(a). In addition to its own competitive bids and positions, the investment adviser must also include in the calculation all other competitive bids and positions that it controls. If the net long position is reportable, the investment adviser must report it as a total in connection with only one bid as stated in § 356.13(a). This requirement applies regardless of whether the investment adviser bids in its own name or in the name of its controlled accounts. The following table shows which positions an investment adviser must include to determine whether it meets the net long position reporting threshold in § 356.13(a). If an investment adviser does meet the reporting threshold, the table also shows which positions must be included in, and which may be excluded from, the net long position calculation.
If an investment adviser is bidding competitively, and . . .
Then . . .
(1) the investment adviser has a net long position for its own account
that position must be included in the investment adviser's net long position calculation.
(2) the investment adviser's competitive bid is for a controlled account
any net long position of that account must be included in the investment adviser's net long position calculation.
(3) the investment adviser is not bidding competitively for a controlled account and . . .
(i) the controlled account has a net long position of $100 million or more
that position must be included in the investment adviser's net long position calculation.
(ii) the controlled account has a net long position that is less than $100 million
that position may be excluded from the investment adviser's net long position calculation.
(iii) any net long position is excluded under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this table
all net short positions of controlled accounts under $100 million must also be excluded.
(d) Certifications. When an investment adviser bids for a controlled account, we deem the investment adviser to have certified that it is complying with this part and the auction announcement for the security. Further, we deem the investment adviser to have certified that the information it provided about bids for controlled accounts is accurate and complete.
Certifications.
When an investment adviser bids for a controlled account, we deem the investment adviser to have certified that it is complying with this part and the auction announcement for the security. Further, we deem the investment adviser to have certified that the information it provided about bids for controlled accounts is accurate and complete.
(e) Proration of awards. Investment advisers that submit competitive bids in the names of controlled accounts are responsible for prorating any awards at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin using the same percentage that we announce.See § 356.21 for examples of how to prorate.
Proration of awards.
Investment advisers that submit competitive bids in the names of controlled accounts are responsible for prorating any awards at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin using the same percentage that we announce.See § 356.21 for examples of how to prorate.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 46429, July 31, 2013]]

§ 356.16   Do I have to make any certifications?

(a) Submitters. If you submit bids or other information in an auction, we deem you to have certified that:
Submitters.
If you submit bids or other information in an auction, we deem you to have certified that:
(1) You are in compliance with this part and the auction announcement;
(2) The information provided with regard to any bids for your own account is accurate and complete; and
(3) The information provided with regard to any bids for customers accurately and completely reflects information provided by your customers or intermediaries.
(b) Intermediaries. If you forward bids in an auction, we deem you to have certified that:
Intermediaries.
If you forward bids in an auction, we deem you to have certified that:
(1) You are in compliance with this part and the applicable auction announcement; and
(2) That the information you provided to a submitter or other intermediary with regard to bids for customers accurately and completely reflects information provided by those customers or intermediaries.
(c) Customers. By bidding for a security as a customer we deem you to have certified that:
Customers.
By bidding for a security as a customer we deem you to have certified that:
(1) You are in compliance with this part and the auction announcement and;
(2) The information you provided to the submitter or intermediary in connection with the bid is accurate and complete.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 14938, Mar. 20, 2008]]

§ 356.17   How and when do I pay for securities awarded in an auction?

(a) General. By bidding in an auction, you agree to pay the settlement amount for any securities awarded to you. (See § 356.25.) For notes and bonds, the settlement amount may include a premium amount, accrued interest, and, for inflation-protected securities, an inflation adjustment.
General.
By bidding in an auction, you agree to pay the settlement amount for any securities awarded to you. (See § 356.25.) For notes and bonds, the settlement amount may include a premium amount, accrued interest, and, for inflation-protected securities, an inflation adjustment.
(b) Securities held directly with Treasury. You must pay for your awarded securities by a debit entry to a deposit account that you are authorized to debit or by using the redemption proceeds of your certificate of indebtedness. Payment by debit entry occurs on the settlement date for the actual settlement amount due. (See § 356.25.)
Securities held directly with Treasury.
You must pay for your awarded securities by a debit entry to a deposit account that you are authorized to debit or by using the redemption proceeds of your certificate of indebtedness. Payment by debit entry occurs on the settlement date for the actual settlement amount due. (
See
§ 356.25.)
(c) Commercial book-entry system. Unless you make other provisions, payment of the settlement amount must be by charge to the funds account of a depository institution at a Federal Reserve Bank.
Commercial book-entry system.
Unless you make other provisions, payment of the settlement amount must be by charge to the funds account of a depository institution at a Federal Reserve Bank.
(1) A submitter that does not have a funds account at a Federal Reserve Bank or that chooses not to pay by charge to its own funds account must have an approved autocharge agreement on file with us before submitting any bids. Any depository institution whose funds account will be charged under an autocharge agreement will receive advance notice from us of the total par amount of, and price to be charged for, securities awarded as a result of the submitter's bids.
(2) A submitter that is a member of a clearing corporation may instruct that delivery and payment be made through the clearing corporation for securities awarded to the submitter for its own account. To do this, the following requirements must be met prior to submitting any bids:
(i) We must have acknowledged and have on file an autocharge agreement between the clearing corporation and a depository institution. By entering into such an agreement, the clearing corporation authorizes us to provide aggregate par and price information to the depository institution whose funds account will be charged under the agreement. The clearing corporation is responsible for remitting payment for auction awards of the clearing corporation member.
(ii) We must have acknowledged and have on file a delivery and payment agreement between the submitter and the clearing corporation. By entering into such an agreement, the submitter authorizes us to provide award and payment information to the clearing corporation.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 57440, Sept. 30, 2005; 70 FR 71401, Nov. 29, 2005; 73 FR 14938, Mar. 20, 2008; 87 FR 40440, July 7, 2022]]

Subpart C—Determination of Auction Awards; Settlement


§ 356.20   How does the Treasury determine auction awards?

(a) Determining the range and amount of accepted competitive bids—(1) Accepting bids. First we accept in full all non-competitive bids that were submitted by the noncompetitive bidding deadline. After the closing time for receipt of competitive bids we start accepting those at the lowest yields, discount rates, or discount margins, through successively higher yields, discount rates, or discount margins, up to the amount required to meet the offering amount. When necessary, we prorate bids at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin as described below. If the amount of noncompetitive bids would absorb all or most of the offering amount, we will accept competitive bids in an amount sufficient to provide a fair determination of the yield, discount rate, or discount margin for the securities we are auctioning.
Determining the range and amount of accepted competitive bids
—(1)
Accepting bids.
First we accept in full all non-competitive bids that were submitted by the noncompetitive bidding deadline. After the closing time for receipt of competitive bids we start accepting those at the lowest yields, discount rates, or discount margins, through successively higher yields, discount rates, or discount margins, up to the amount required to meet the offering amount. When necessary, we prorate bids at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin as described below. If the amount of noncompetitive bids would absorb all or most of the offering amount, we will accept competitive bids in an amount sufficient to provide a fair determination of the yield, discount rate, or discount margin for the securities we are auctioning.
(2) Accepting bids at the high yield, discount rate, or discount margin. Generally, the total amount of bids at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin exceeds the offering amount remaining after we accept the noncompetitive bids and the competitive bids at the lower yields, discount rates, or discount margins. In order to keep the total amount of awards as close as possible to the announced offering amount, we award a percentage of the bids at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin. We derive the percentage by dividing the remaining par amount needed to fill the offering amount by the par amount of the bids at the high yield, discount rate, or discount margin and rounding up to the next hundredth of a whole percentage point, for example, 17.13%.
Accepting bids at the high yield, discount rate, or discount margin.
Generally, the total amount of bids at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin exceeds the offering amount remaining after we accept the noncompetitive bids and the competitive bids at the lower yields, discount rates, or discount margins. In order to keep the total amount of awards as close as possible to the announced offering amount, we award a percentage of the bids at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin. We derive the percentage by dividing the remaining par amount needed to fill the offering amount by the par amount of the bids at the high yield, discount rate, or discount margin and rounding up to the next hundredth of a whole percentage point, for example, 17.13%.
(b) Determining the interest rate for new non-indexed and inflation-protected note and bond issues. If a Treasury non-indexed or inflation-protected note or bond auction results in a yield lower than 0.125 percent, the interest rate will be set at 
1/8 of one percent, and successful bidders' award prices will be calculated accordingly. (See appendix B to this part for formulas.)
Determining the interest rate for new non-indexed and inflation-protected note and bond issues.
If a Treasury non-indexed or inflation-protected note or bond auction results in a yield lower than 0.125 percent, the interest rate will be set at
1/8
of one percent, and successful bidders' award prices will be calculated accordingly. (
See
appendix B to this part for formulas.)
(1) Single-price auctions. The interest rate we establish produces the price closest to, but not above, par when evaluated at the yield of awards to successful competitive bidders.
Single-price auctions.
The interest rate we establish produces the price closest to, but not above, par when evaluated at the yield of awards to successful competitive bidders.
(2) Multiple-price auctions. The interest rate we establish produces the price closest to, but not above, par when evaluated at the weighted-average yield of awards to successful competitive bidders.
Multiple-price auctions.
The interest rate we establish produces the price closest to, but not above, par when evaluated at the weighted-average yield of awards to successful competitive bidders.
(c) Determining the interest rate for floating rate notes. The interest rate will be the spread plus the index rate (as it may be adjusted on the calendar day following each auction of 13-week bills) subject to a minimum daily interest accrual rate of zero percent.
Determining the interest rate for floating rate notes.
The interest rate will be the spread plus the index rate (as it may be adjusted on the calendar day following each auction of 13-week bills) subject to a minimum daily interest accrual rate of zero percent.
(d) Determining purchase prices for awarded securities. We round price calculations to six decimal places on the basis of price per hundred, for example, 99.954321 (See appendix B to this part).
Determining purchase prices for awarded securities.
We round price calculations to six decimal places on the basis of price per hundred, for example, 99.954321 (See appendix B to this part).
(1) Single-price auctions. We award securities to both noncompetitive and competitive bidders at the price equivalent to the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin at which bids were accepted. For inflation-protected securities, the price for awarded securities is the price equivalent to the highest accepted real yield.
Single-price auctions.
We award securities to both noncompetitive and competitive bidders at the price equivalent to the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin at which bids were accepted. For inflation-protected securities, the price for awarded securities is the price equivalent to the highest accepted real yield.
(2) Multiple-price auctions—(i) Competitive bids. We award securities to competitive bidders at the price equivalent to each yield, discount rate, or discount margin at which their bids were accepted.
Multiple-price auctions
—(i)
Competitive bids.
We award securities to competitive bidders at the price equivalent to each yield, discount rate, or discount margin at which their bids were accepted.
(ii) Noncompetitive bids. We award securities to noncompetitive bidders at the price equivalent to the weighted average yield, discount rate, or discount margin of accepted competitive bids.
Noncompetitive bids.
We award securities to noncompetitive bidders at the price equivalent to the weighted average yield, discount rate, or discount margin of accepted competitive bids.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 53621, Sept. 2, 2004; 76 FR 11080, Mar. 1, 2011; 78 FR 46429, July 31, 2013; 87 FR 40440, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.21   How are awards at the high yield, discount rate, or discount margin calculated?

(a) Awards to submitters. We generally prorate bids at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin under § 356.20(a)(2) of this part. For example, if 80.15% is the announced percentage at the highest yield, discount rate, or discount margin, we award 80.15% of the amount of each bid at that yield, discount rate, or discount margin. A bid for $100 million at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin would be awarded $80,150,000 in this example. We always make awards for at least the minimum to bid, and above that amount we make awards in the appropriate multiple to bid. For example, Treasury bills may be issued with a minimum to bid of $100 and multiples to bid of $100. Say we accept an $18,000 bid at the high discount rate, and the percent awarded at the high discount rate is 88.27%. We would award $15,900 to that bidder, which is an upward adjustment from $15,888.60 ($18,000 × .8827) to the nearest multiple of $100. If we were to award 4.65% of bids at the highest accepted rate, for example, the award for a $100 bid at that rate would be $100, rather than $4.65, in order to meet the minimum to bid for a bill issue.
Awards to submitters.
We generally prorate bids at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin under § 356.20(a)(2) of this part. For example, if 80.15% is the announced percentage at the highest yield, discount rate, or discount margin, we award 80.15% of the amount of each bid at that yield, discount rate, or discount margin. A bid for $100 million at the highest accepted yield, discount rate, or discount margin would be awarded $80,150,000 in this example. We always make awards for at least the minimum to bid, and above that amount we make awards in the appropriate multiple to bid. For example, Treasury bills may be issued with a minimum to bid of $100 and multiples to bid of $100. Say we accept an $18,000 bid at the high discount rate, and the percent awarded at the high discount rate is 88.27%. We would award $15,900 to that bidder, which is an upward adjustment from $15,888.60 ($18,000 × .8827) to the nearest multiple of $100. If we were to award 4.65% of bids at the highest accepted rate, for example, the award for a $100 bid at that rate would be $100, rather than $4.65, in order to meet the minimum to bid for a bill issue.
(b) Awards to customers. The same prorating rules apply to customers as apply to submitters. Depository institutions and dealers, whether submitters or intermediaries, are responsible for prorating awards for their customers at the same percentage that we announce. For example, if 80.15% is the announced percentage at the highest yield, discount rate, or discount margin, then each customer bid at that yield, discount rate, or discount margin must be awarded 80.15%.
Awards to customers.
The same prorating rules apply to customers as apply to submitters. Depository institutions and dealers, whether submitters or intermediaries, are responsible for prorating awards for their customers at the same percentage that we announce. For example, if 80.15% is the announced percentage at the highest yield, discount rate, or discount margin, then each customer bid at that yield, discount rate, or discount margin must be awarded 80.15%.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 26086, June 1, 2009; 78 FR 46430, July 31, 2013]]

§ 356.22   Does the Treasury have any limitations on auction awards?

(a) Awards to noncompetitive bidders. The maximum award to any noncompetitive bidder is $10 million. This limit does not apply to bidders bidding solely through a request to reinvest the proceeds of a maturing security held directly with Treasury.
Awards to noncompetitive bidders.
The maximum award to any noncompetitive bidder is $10 million. This limit does not apply to bidders bidding solely through a request to reinvest the proceeds of a maturing security held directly with Treasury.
(b) Awards to competitive bidders. The maximum award is 35 percent of the offering amount less the bidder's net long position as reportable under § 356.13. For example, in a note auction with a $10 billion offering amount, and therefore a maximum award of $3.5 billion, a bidder with a reported net long position of $1 billion could receive a maximum auction award of $2.5 billion. When the bids and net long positions of more than one person or entity must be combined, as is the case with investment advisers and controlled accounts (See § 356.15(c).), we will use this combined amount for the purpose of this 35 percent award limit.
Awards to competitive bidders.
The maximum award is 35 percent of the offering amount less the bidder's net long position as reportable under § 356.13. For example, in a note auction with a $10 billion offering amount, and therefore a maximum award of $3.5 billion, a bidder with a reported net long position of $1 billion could receive a maximum auction award of $2.5 billion. When the bids and net long positions of more than one person or entity must be combined, as is the case with investment advisers and controlled accounts (See § 356.15(c).), we will use this combined amount for the purpose of this 35 percent award limit.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 53622, Sept. 2, 2004; 70 FR 57440, Sept. 30, 2005; 87 FR 40440, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.23   How are the auction results announced?

(a) After the conclusion of the auction, we will make the auction results available on our website at http://www.treasurydirect.gov.
http://www.treasurydirect.gov.
(b) The auction results will include such information as:
(1) The amounts of bids we accepted and the amount of securities we awarded;
(2) The range of accepted yields, discount rates, or discount margins.
(3) The proration percentage;
(4) The interest rate for a note or bond;
(5) A breakdown of the amounts of noncompetitive and competitive bids we accepted from, and awarded to, the public;
(6) The amounts of bids tendered and accepted from the Federal Reserve Banks for their own accounts;
(7) The bid-to-cover ratio; and
(8) Other information that we may decide to include.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 26086, June 1, 2009; 78 FR 46430, July 31, 2013; 87 FR 40440, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.24   Will I be notified directly of my awards and, if I am submitting bids for others, do I have to provide confirmations?

(a) Notice of awards—(1) Notice to submitters. We will provide notice to all submitters letting them know whether their bids were successful or not.
Notice of awards
—(1)
Notice to submitters.
We will provide notice to all submitters letting them know whether their bids were successful or not.
(2) Notice to clearing corporations. If we are to deliver awarded securities under a delivery and payment agreement, we will provide notice of the awards to the clearing corporation that is a party to the agreement.
Notice to clearing corporations.
If we are to deliver awarded securities under a delivery and payment agreement, we will provide notice of the awards to the clearing corporation that is a party to the agreement.
(b) Notification of awards to customers. If you are a submitter for customers, you are responsible for notifying them of their awards. You are also responsible for notifying any intermediaries that forwarded successful bids to you. Similarly, an intermediary is responsible for providing notification of any awards to its customers and any intermediaries from whom it received bids.
Notification of awards to customers.
If you are a submitter for customers, you are responsible for notifying them of their awards. You are also responsible for notifying any intermediaries that forwarded successful bids to you. Similarly, an intermediary is responsible for providing notification of any awards to its customers and any intermediaries from whom it received bids.
(c) Notification of awards and settlement amounts to a depository institution having an autocharge agreement with a submitter or a clearing corporation. We will provide notice to each depository institution that has entered into an autocharge agreement with a submitter or a clearing corporation of the amount to be charged, on the issue date, to the institution's funds account at the Federal Reserve Bank servicing the institution. We will provide this notification no later than the day after the auction.
Notification of awards and settlement amounts to a depository institution having an autocharge agreement with a submitter or a clearing corporation.
We will provide notice to each depository institution that has entered into an autocharge agreement with a submitter or a clearing corporation of the amount to be charged, on the issue date, to the institution's funds account at the Federal Reserve Bank servicing the institution. We will provide this notification no later than the day after the auction.
(d) Customer confirmation—(1) Customer requirements—(i) When and how must a customer confirm its awards? Any customer awarded a par amount of $2 billion or more in an auction must send us a confirmation in written form or via e-mail containing the information in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. The confirmation must be sent no later than 10 a.m. Eastern Time on the next business day following the auction. If sent in written form, the confirmation must be signed by the customer or authorized representative. Confirmations sent by e-mail must be sent by the customer or authorized representative. Confirmations signed or sent by an authorized representative must include the capacity in which the representative is acting.
Customer confirmation
—(1)
Customer requirements
—(i)
When and how must a customer confirm its awards?
Any customer awarded a par amount of $2 billion or more in an auction must send us a confirmation in written form or via e-mail containing the information in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. The confirmation must be sent no later than 10 a.m. Eastern Time on the next business day following the auction. If sent in written form, the confirmation must be signed by the customer or authorized representative. Confirmations sent by e-mail must be sent by the customer or authorized representative. Confirmations signed or sent by an authorized representative must include the capacity in which the representative is acting.
(ii) What must the customer include in its confirmation? The information the customer must provide is:
What must the customer include in its confirmation?
The information the customer must provide is:
(A) A confirmation of the awarded bid(s), including the name of each submitter that submitted the bid(s) on the customer's behalf, and
(B) A statement indicating whether the customer had a reportable net long position as defined in § 356.13. If a position had to be reported, the statement must provide the amount of the position and the name of the submitter that the customer requested to report the position.
(2) Submitter or intermediary requirements. A submitter or intermediary submitting or forwarding bids for a customer must notify the customer of the customer confirmation reporting requirement if we award the customer $2 billion or more as a result of those bids.
Submitter or intermediary requirements.
A submitter or intermediary submitting or forwarding bids for a customer must notify the customer of the customer confirmation reporting requirement if we award the customer $2 billion or more as a result of those bids.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 76151, Dec. 20, 2006; 74 FR 26086, June 1, 2009; 74 FR 47100, Sept. 15, 2009]]

§ 356.25   How does the settlement process work?

Securities bought in the auction must be paid for by the issue date. The payment amount for awarded securities will be the settlement amount as defined in § 356.2. (See formulas in appendix B.) There are several ways to pay for securities:
(a) Payment by debit entry to a deposit account. If you are paying by debit entry to a deposit account as provided for in § 356.17(b), we will charge the settlement amount to the specified account on the issue date.
Payment by debit entry to a deposit account.
If you are paying by debit entry to a deposit account as provided for in § 356.17(b), we will charge the settlement amount to the specified account on the issue date.
(b) Payment by authorized charge to a funds account. Where the submitter's method of payment is an authorized charge to the funds account of a depository institution as provided for in § 356.17(c), we will charge the settlement amount to the specified funds account on the issue date.
Payment by authorized charge to a funds account.
Where the submitter's method of payment is an authorized charge to the funds account of a depository institution as provided for in § 356.17(c), we will charge the settlement amount to the specified funds account on the issue date.
(c) Payment through a certificate of indebtedness. If you are paying with the redemption proceeds of your certificate of indebtedness as provided for in § 356.17(b), we will redeem the certificate of indebtedness for the settlement amount of the security and apply the proceeds on the issue date.
Payment through a certificate of indebtedness.
If you are paying with the redemption proceeds of your certificate of indebtedness as provided for in § 356.17(b), we will redeem the certificate of indebtedness for the settlement amount of the security and apply the proceeds on the issue date.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 57440, Sept. 30, 2005; 73 FR 14938, Mar. 20, 2008; 87 FR 40440, July 7, 2022]]

Subpart D—Miscellaneous Provisions


§ 356.30   When does the Treasury pay principal and interest on securities?

(a) General. We will pay principal on bills, notes, and bonds on the maturity date as specified in the auction announcement. Interest on bills consists of the difference between the discounted amount paid by the investor at original issue and the par value we pay to the investor at maturity. Interest on notes and bonds accrues from the dated date. Interest is payable on a semiannual or quarterly basis on the interest payment dates specified in the auction announcement through the maturity date. If any principal or interest payment date is a Saturday, Sunday, or other day on which the Federal Reserve System is not open for business, we will make the payment (without additional interest) on the next business day. If a bond is callable, we will pay the principal prior to maturity if we call it under its terms, which include providing appropriate public notice.
General.
We will pay principal on bills, notes, and bonds on the maturity date as specified in the auction announcement. Interest on bills consists of the difference between the discounted amount paid by the investor at original issue and the par value we pay to the investor at maturity. Interest on notes and bonds accrues from the dated date. Interest is payable on a semiannual or quarterly basis on the interest payment dates specified in the auction announcement through the maturity date. If any principal or interest payment date is a Saturday, Sunday, or other day on which the Federal Reserve System is not open for business, we will make the payment (without additional interest) on the next business day. If a bond is callable, we will pay the principal prior to maturity if we call it under its terms, which include providing appropriate public notice.
(b) Treasury inflation-protected securities. (1) This table explains the amount that we will pay to holders of inflation-protected securities at maturity.
Treasury inflation-protected securities.
(1) This table explains the amount that we will pay to holders of inflation-protected securities at maturity.
At maturity, if . . .
then . . .
(i) the inflation-adjusted principal is equal to or more than the par amount of the security.
we will pay the inflation-adjusted principal.
(ii) the inflation-adjusted principal is less than the par amount of the security, and the security has not been stripped.
we will pay an additional amount so that the additional amount plus the inflation-adjusted principal equals the par amount.
(iii) the inflation-adjusted principal is less than the par amount of the security, and the security has been stripped.
to holders of principal components only we will pay an additional amount so that the additional amount plus the inflation-adjusted principal equals the par amount.
(2) Regardless of whether or not we pay an additional amount, we will base the final interest payment on the inflation-adjusted principal at maturity.
(c) Discharge of payment obligations—(1) The commercial book-entry system. We discharge our payment obligations when we credit payment to the account maintained at a Federal Reserve Bank for a depository institution or other authorized entity, or when we make payment according to the instructions of the person or entity maintaining the account. Further, we do not have any obligations to any person or entity that does not have an account with a Federal Reserve Bank. We also will not recognize the claims of any person or entity:
Discharge of payment obligations
—(1)
The commercial book-entry system.
We discharge our payment obligations when we credit payment to the account maintained at a Federal Reserve Bank for a depository institution or other authorized entity, or when we make payment according to the instructions of the person or entity maintaining the account. Further, we do not have any obligations to any person or entity that does not have an account with a Federal Reserve Bank. We also will not recognize the claims of any person or entity:
(i) That does not have an account at a Federal Reserve Bank, or
(ii) With respect to any accounts not maintained at a Federal Reserve Bank.
(2) Securities held directly with Treasury. We discharge our payment obligations when we make payment to a depository institution for credit to the account specified by the owner of the security, when we make payment for a certificate of indebtedness to be issued and held in the owner's account, or when we make payment according to the instructions of the security's owner or the owner's legal representative.
Securities held directly with Treasury.
We discharge our payment obligations when we make payment to a depository institution for credit to the account specified by the owner of the security, when we make payment for a certificate of indebtedness to be issued and held in the owner's account, or when we make payment according to the instructions of the security's owner or the owner's legal representative.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 57441, Sept. 30, 2005; 78 FR 46430, July 31, 2013; 87 FR 40440, July 7, 2022]]

§ 356.31   How does the STRIPS program work?

(a) General. Notes or bonds (other than Treasury floating rate notes) may be “stripped”—divided into separate principal and interest components. These components must be maintained in the commercial book-entry system. Stripping is done at the option of the holder, and may occur at any time from issuance until maturity. We provide the CUSIP numbers and payment dates for the principal and interest components in auction announcements and on our Web site at http://www.treasurydirect.gov.
General.
Notes or bonds (other than Treasury floating rate notes) may be “stripped”—divided into separate principal and interest components. These components must be maintained in the commercial book-entry system. Stripping is done at the option of the holder, and may occur at any time from issuance until maturity. We provide the CUSIP numbers and payment dates for the principal and interest components in auction announcements and on our Web site at
http://www.treasurydirect.gov.
(b) Treasury non-indexed securities (notes and bonds other than Treasury inflation-protected securities or Treasury floating rate notes)—(1) Minimum par amounts required for STRIPS. The minimum par amount of a non-indexed security that may be stripped is $100. Any par amount to be stripped above $100 must be in a multiple of $100.
Treasury non-indexed securities (notes and bonds other than Treasury inflation-protected securities or Treasury floating rate notes)
—(1)
Minimum par amounts required for STRIPS.
The minimum par amount of a non-indexed security that may be stripped is $100. Any par amount to be stripped above $100 must be in a multiple of $100.
(2) Principal components. Principal components stripped from non-indexed securities are maintained in accounts, and transferred, at their par amount. They have a CUSIP number that is different from the CUSIP number of the fully constituted (unstripped) security.
Principal components.
Principal components stripped from non-indexed securities are maintained in accounts, and transferred, at their par amount. They have a CUSIP number that is different from the CUSIP number of the fully constituted (unstripped) security.
(3) Interest components. Interest components stripped from non-indexed securities have the following features:
Interest components.
Interest components stripped from non-indexed securities have the following features:
(i) They are maintained in accounts, and transferred, at their original payment value, which is derived by multiplying the semiannual interest rate and the par amount;
(ii) Their interest payment date becomes the maturity date for the component;
(iii) All interest components with the same maturity date have the same CUSIP number, regardless of the underlying security from which the interest payments were stripped, and therefore are fungible (interchangeable).
(iv) the CUSIP numbers of interest components are different from the CUSIP numbers of principal components and fully constituted securities, even if they have the same maturity date, and therefore are not fungible.
(c) Treasury inflation-protected securities—(1) Minimum par amounts required for STRIPS. The minimum par amount of an inflation-protected security that may be stripped is $100. Any par amount to be stripped above $100 must be in a multiple of $100.
Treasury inflation-protected securities
—(1)
Minimum par amounts required for STRIPS.
The minimum par amount of an inflation-protected security that may be stripped is $100. Any par amount to be stripped above $100 must be in a multiple of $100.
(2) Principal components. Principal components stripped from inflation-protected securities are maintained in accounts, and transferred, at their par amount. At maturity, the holder will receive the inflation-adjusted principal or the par amount, whichever is greater. (See § 356.30.) A principal component has a CUSIP number that is different from the CUSIP number of the fully constituted (unstripped) security.
Principal components.
Principal components stripped from inflation-protected securities are maintained in accounts, and transferred, at their par amount. At maturity, the holder will receive the inflation-adjusted principal or the par amount, whichever is greater. (See § 356.30.) A principal component has a CUSIP number that is different from the CUSIP number of the fully constituted (unstripped) security.
(3) Interest components—(i) Adjusted value. Interest components stripped from inflation-protected securities are maintained in accounts, and transferred, at their adjusted value. This value is derived by multiplying the semiannual interest rate by the par amount and then multiplying this value by: 100 divided by the Reference CPI of the original issue date. (The dated date is used instead of the original issue date when the dates are different.) See appendix B, section V of this part for an example of how to do this calculation.
Interest components
—(i)
Adjusted value.
Interest components stripped from inflation-protected securities are maintained in accounts, and transferred, at their adjusted value. This value is derived by multiplying the semiannual interest rate by the par amount and then multiplying this value by: 100 divided by the Reference CPI of the original issue date. (The dated date is used instead of the original issue date when the dates are different.) See appendix B, section V of this part for an example of how to do this calculation.
(ii) CUSIP numbers. When an interest payment is stripped from an inflation-protected security, the interest payment date becomes the maturity date for the component. All interest components with the same maturity date have the same CUSIP number, regardless of the underlying security from which the interest payments were stripped. Such interest components are fungible (interchangeable). The CUSIP numbers of interest components are different from the CUSIP numbers of principal components and fully constituted securities, even if they have the same maturity date.
CUSIP numbers.
When an interest payment is stripped from an inflation-protected security, the interest payment date becomes the maturity date for the component. All interest components with the same maturity date have the same CUSIP number, regardless of the underlying security from which the interest payments were stripped. Such interest components are fungible (interchangeable). The CUSIP numbers of interest components are different from the CUSIP numbers of principal components and fully constituted securities, even if they have the same maturity date.
(iii) Payment at maturity. At maturity, the payment to the holder will be derived by multiplying the adjusted value of the interest component by the Reference CPI of the maturity date, divided by 100. See appendix B, section V of this part for an example of how to do this calculation.
Payment at maturity.
At maturity, the payment to the holder will be derived by multiplying the adjusted value of the interest component by the Reference CPI of the maturity date, divided by 100. See appendix B, section V of this part for an example of how to do this calculation.
(iv) Rebasing of the CPI. If the CPI is rebased to a different time base reference period (See appendix D.), the adjusted values of all outstanding inflation-protected interest components will be converted to adjusted values based on the new base reference period. At that time, we will publish information that describes how this conversion will occur. After rebasing, any interest components created from a security that was issued during a prior base reference period will be issued with adjusted values calculated using reference CPIs under the most-recent base reference period.
Rebasing of the CPI.
If the CPI is rebased to a different time base reference period (See appendix D.), the adjusted values of all outstanding inflation-protected interest components will be converted to adjusted values based on the new base reference period. At that time, we will publish information that describes how this conversion will occur. After rebasing, any interest components created from a security that was issued during a prior base reference period will be issued with adjusted values calculated using reference CPIs under the most-recent base reference period.
(d) Reconstituting a security. Stripped interest and principal components may be reconstituted, that is, put back together into their fully constituted form. A principal component and all related unmatured interest components, in the appropriate minimum or multiple amounts or adjusted values, must be submitted together for reconstitution. Because inflation-protected interest components are different from non-indexed interest components, they are not interchangeable for reconstitution purposes.
Reconstituting a security.
Stripped interest and principal components may be reconstituted, that is, put back together into their fully constituted form. A principal component and all related unmatured interest components, in the appropriate minimum or multiple amounts or adjusted values, must be submitted together for reconstitution. Because inflation-protected interest components are different from non-indexed interest components, they are not interchangeable for reconstitution purposes.
(e) Applicable regulations. Subparts A, B, and D of part 357 of this chapter govern notes and bonds stripped into their STRIPS components, unless we state differently in this part.
Applicable regulations.
Subparts A, B, and D of part 357 of this chapter govern notes and bonds stripped into their STRIPS components, unless we state differently in this part.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 14939, Mar. 20, 2008; 74 FR 26086, June 1, 2009; 78 FR 46428, 46430, July 31, 2013; 81 FR 43070, July 1, 2016]]

§ 356.32   What tax rules apply?

(a) General. Securities issued under this part are subject to all applicable taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or its successor. Under section 3124 of title 31, United States Code, the securities are exempt from taxation by a State or political subdivision of a State, except for State estate or inheritance taxes and other exceptions as provided in that section.
General.
Securities issued under this part are subject to all applicable taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or its successor. Under section 3124 of title 31, United States Code, the securities are exempt from taxation by a State or political subdivision of a State, except for State estate or inheritance taxes and other exceptions as provided in that section.
(b) Treasury inflation-protected securities. Special federal income tax rules for inflation-protected securities, including stripped inflation-protected principal and interest components, are set forth in Internal Revenue Service regulations.
Treasury inflation-protected securities.
Special federal income tax rules for inflation-protected securities, including stripped inflation-protected principal and interest components, are set forth in Internal Revenue Service regulations.
(c) Treasury floating rate notes. Special federal income tax rules for floating rate notes are set forth in Internal Revenue Service regulations.
Treasury floating rate notes.
Special federal income tax rules for floating rate notes are set forth in Internal Revenue Service regulations.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 46430, July 31, 2013]]

§ 356.33   Does the Treasury have any discretion in the auction process?

(a) We have the discretion to:
(1) Accept, reject, or refuse to recognize any bids submitted in an auction;
(2) Award more or less than the amount of securities specified in the auction announcement;
(3) Waive any provision of this part for any bidder or submitter; and
(4) Change the terms and conditions of an auction.
(b) Our decisions under this part are final. We will provide a public notice if we change any auction provision, term, or condition.
(c) We reserve the right to modify the terms and conditions of new securities and to depart from the customary pattern of securities offerings at any time.

§ 356.34   What could happen if someone does not fully comply with the auction rules or fails to pay for securities?

(a) General. If a person or entity fails to comply with any of the auction rules in this part, we will consider the circumstances and take what we deem to be appropriate action. This could include barring the person or entity from participating in future auctions under this part. We also may refer the matter to an appropriate regulatory agency.
General.
If a person or entity fails to comply with any of the auction rules in this part, we will consider the circumstances and take what we deem to be appropriate action. This could include barring the person or entity from participating in future auctions under this part. We also may refer the matter to an appropriate regulatory agency.
(b) Liquidated damages. If you fail to pay for awarded securities in a timely manner, we may require you to pay liquidated damages of up to one percent of the par amount of securities we awarded to you. Our use of this liquidated damages remedy does not preclude us from using any other appropriate remedy.
Liquidated damages.
If you fail to pay for awarded securities in a timely manner, we may require you to pay liquidated damages of up to one percent of the par amount of securities we awarded to you. Our use of this liquidated damages remedy does not preclude us from using any other appropriate remedy.

§ 356.35   Who approved the information collections?

The Office of Management and Budget approved the collections of information contained in §§ 356.11, 356.12, 356.13, 356.14, and 356.15 and in appendix A of this part under control number 1535-0112.

Appendix A to Part 356—Bidder Categories

I. Categories of Eligible Bidders
We describe below various categories of bidders eligible to bid in Treasury auctions. You may use them to determine whether we consider you and other persons or entities to be one bidder or more than one bidder for auction bidding and compliance purposes. For example, we use these definitions to apply the competitive and noncompetitive award limitations and for other requirements. Notwithstanding these definitions, we consider any persons or entities that intentionally act together with respect to bidding in a Treasury auction to collectively be one bidder. Even if an auction participant does not fall under any of the categories listed below, it is our intent that no auction participant receives a larger auction award by acquiring securities through others than it could have received had it been considered one of these types of bidders.
(a) Corporation—We consider a corporation to be one bidder. A corporation includes all of its affiliates, which may be persons, partnerships, or other entities. We consider a business trust, such as a Massachusetts or Delaware business trust, to be a corporation. We use the term “corporate structure” to refer to the collection of affiliates that we consider collectively to be one bidder. An affiliate is any:
Corporation
—We consider a corporation to be one bidder. A corporation includes all of its affiliates, which may be persons, partnerships, or other entities. We consider a business trust, such as a Massachusetts or Delaware business trust, to be a corporation. We use the term “corporate structure” to refer to the collection of affiliates that we consider collectively to be one bidder. An affiliate is any:
• Entity that is more than 50-percent owned, directly or indirectly, by the corporation;
• Entity that is more than 50-percent owned, directly or indirectly, by any other affiliate of the corporation;
• Person or entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50 percent of the corporation;
• Person or entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50 percent of any other affiliate of the corporation; or
• Entity, a majority of whose board of directors or a majority of whose general partners are directors or officers of the corporation, or of any affiliate of the corporation.
An entity that is more than 50-percent owned as described in this definition is not an affiliate, however, if:
• The purpose of such ownership is to seek a return on investment and not to engage in the business of the entity;
• The owner does not routinely exercise operational or management control over the entity;
• The owner does not exercise any control over investment decisions of the entity regarding U.S. Treasury securities;
• The corporation has written policies or procedures, including ongoing compliance monitoring processes, that are designed to prevent it from acting together with the entity regarding participation in Treasury auctions or investment strategies regarding Treasury securities being auctioned; and
• The corporation submits notice and certification to us, as provided in this appendix A.
A corporation that plans to make use of this exception to the definition of “affiliate” must inform us of this fact in writing and provide the following certification:
[Name of corporation] hereby certifies that, with regard to any entity of which it owns more than 50 percent as defined in appendix A to 31 CFR part 356, but for which the purpose of such ownership is to seek a return on investment and not to engage in the business of the entity:
• We do not routinely exercise operational or management control over the entity;
• We do not exercise any control over investment decisions of the entity regarding U.S. Treasury securities;
• We have written policies or procedures, including ongoing compliance monitoring processes, that are designed to prevent the corporation from acting together with the entity regarding participation in Treasury auctions or investment strategies regarding Treasury securities being auctioned; and
• We will continue to meet the terms of this certification until we notify the Treasury of a change.
(b) Partnership—We consider a partnership to be one bidder if it is a partnership for which the Internal Revenue Service has assigned a tax-identification number. A partnership includes all of its affiliates, which may be persons, corporations, general partners acting on behalf of the partnership, or other entities. We use the term “partnership structure” to refer to the collection of affiliates that we consider collectively to be one bidder. We may consider a partnership structure that contains one or more corporations as a “partnership” or a “corporation,” but not both.
Partnership
—We consider a partnership to be one bidder if it is a partnership for which the Internal Revenue Service has assigned a tax-identification number. A partnership includes all of its affiliates, which may be persons, corporations, general partners acting on behalf of the partnership, or other entities. We use the term “partnership structure” to refer to the collection of affiliates that we consider collectively to be one bidder. We may consider a partnership structure that contains one or more corporations as a “partnership” or a “corporation,” but not both.
An affiliate is any:
• Entity that is more than 50-percent owned, directly or indirectly, by the partnership;
• Entity that is more than 50-percent owned, directly or indirectly, by any other affiliate of the partnership;
• Person or entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50 percent of the partnership;
• Person or entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50 percent of any other affiliate of the partnership; or
• Entity, a majority of whose general partners or a majority of whose board of directors are general partners or directors of the partnership or of any affiliate of the partnership.
An entity that is more than 50-percent owned as described in this definition is not an affiliate, however, if:
• The purpose of such ownership is to seek a return on investment and not to engage in the business of the entity;
• The owner does not routinely exercise operational or management control over the entity;
• The owner does not exercise any control over investment decisions of the entity regarding U.S. Treasury securities;
• The partnership has written policies or procedures, including ongoing compliance monitoring processes, that are designed to prevent it from acting together with the entity regarding participation in Treasury auctions or investment strategies regarding Treasury securities being auctioned; and
• The partnership submits notice and certification to us, as provided in this appendix A.
A partnership that plans to make use of this exception to the definition of “affiliate” must inform us of this fact in writing and provide the following certification:
[Name of partnership] hereby certifies that, with regard to any entity of which it owns more than 50 percent as defined in appendix A to 31 CFR part 356, but for which the purpose of such ownership is to seek a return on investment and not to engage in the business of the entity:
• We do not routinely exercise operational or management control over the entity;
• We do not exercise any control over investment decisions of the entity regarding U.S. Treasury securities;
• We have written policies or procedures, including ongoing compliance monitoring processes, that are designed to prevent the partnership from acting together with the entity regarding participation in Treasury auctions or investment strategies regarding Treasury securities being auctioned; and
• We will continue to meet the terms of this certification until we notify the Treasury of a change.
(c) Government-related entity—We consider each of the following entities to be one bidder:
Government-related entity
—We consider each of the following entities to be one bidder:
(1) A state government or the government of the District of Columbia
(2) A unit of local government, including any county, city, municipality, or township, or other unit of general government as defined by the Bureau of the Census for statistical purposes.
(3) A commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
(4) A governmental entity, body, or corporation established under Federal, State, or local law.
(5) A foreign central bank, the government of a foreign state, or an international organization in which the United States holds membership. This type of entity applies only when such entity is not using an account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (See paragraph (f).).
We generally consider an investment, reserve, or other fund of one of the above government-related entities as part of that entity and not a separate bidder. We will consider a government-related entity's fund to be a separate bidder if it meets the definition of the “trust or other fiduciary estate” category, or if applicable law requires that the investments of such fund be made separately.
(d) Trust or other fiduciary estate—We consider a legal entity created under a valid trust instrument, court order, or other legal authority that designates a trustee or fiduciary to act for the benefit of a named beneficiary to be one bidder. The following conditions must also be met for us to consider a trust entity to be one bidder:
Trust or other fiduciary estate
—We consider a legal entity created under a valid trust instrument, court order, or other legal authority that designates a trustee or fiduciary to act for the benefit of a named beneficiary to be one bidder. The following conditions must also be met for us to consider a trust entity to be one bidder:
• The legal entity must be able to be identified by:
1. The name or title of the trustee or fiduciary;
2. Specific reference to the trust instrument, court order, or legal authority under which the trustee or fiduciary is acting; and
3. The unique IRS-assigned employer identification number (not social security number) for the entity.
• The trustee or fiduciary must make the decisions on participating in auctions on behalf of the trust or fiduciary estate.
(e) Individual—We consider a person to be one bidder, regardless of whether he or she is acting as an individual, a sole proprietor, or for any entity not otherwise defined as a bidder. If a person meets the definition of an affiliate within a corporate or partnership structure, we will consider him or her to be a bidder in this “individual” category if the corporation or partnership is not bidding in the same auction. We do not consider a person acting in an official capacity as an employee or other representative of a bidder defined in any other category to be an “individual” bidder. We consider a person, his or her spouse, and any children under the age of 21 having a common household to be one “individual” bidder.
Individual
—We consider a person to be one bidder, regardless of whether he or she is acting as an individual, a sole proprietor, or for any entity not otherwise defined as a bidder. If a person meets the definition of an affiliate within a corporate or partnership structure, we will consider him or her to be a bidder in this “individual” category if the corporation or partnership is not bidding in the same auction. We do not consider a person acting in an official capacity as an employee or other representative of a bidder defined in any other category to be an “individual” bidder. We consider a person, his or her spouse, and any children under the age of 21 having a common household to be one “individual” bidder.
(f) Foreign and International Monetary Authority (“FIMA”)—We consider one or more parties making up a foreign or international monetary organization that is not private in nature to be a bidder called a FIMA entity if at least one of the parties is a foreign or international entity that is (i) financial in nature, or (ii) not financial in nature but is authorized to open an account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. We consider each of the following entities to be a single FIMA entity:
Foreign and International Monetary Authority (“FIMA”)
—We consider one or more parties making up a foreign or international monetary organization that is not private in nature to be a bidder called a FIMA entity if at least one of the parties is a foreign or international entity that is (i) financial in nature, or (ii) not financial in nature but is authorized to open an account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. We consider each of the following entities to be a single FIMA entity:
(1) A foreign central bank or regional central bank.
(2) A foreign governmental monetary or finance entity.
(3) A non-governmental international financial organization that is not private in nature (for example, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the Asian Development Bank).
(4) A non-financial international organization that the United States participates in (for example, the United Nations).
(5) A multi-party arrangement of a governmental ministry and/or a foreign central bank or monetary authority with a United States Government Department and/or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
(6) A foreign or international monetary entity or an entity authorized by statute or by us to open accounts at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
(g) Other Bidder—We do not consider a bidder defined by any of the above categories to be a bidder in this category. For purposes of this definition, “other bidder” means an institution or organization with a unique IRS-assigned employer identification number. This definition includes such entities as an association, church, university, union, or club. This category does not include any person or entity acting in a fiduciary or investment management capacity, a sole proprietorship, an investment account, an investment fund, a form of registration, or investment ownership designation.
Other Bidder
—We do not consider a bidder defined by any of the above categories to be a bidder in this category. For purposes of this definition, “other bidder” means an institution or organization with a unique IRS-assigned employer identification number. This definition includes such entities as an association, church, university, union, or club. This category does not include any person or entity acting in a fiduciary or investment management capacity, a sole proprietorship, an investment account, an investment fund, a form of registration, or investment ownership designation.
II. How To Obtain Separate Bidder Recognition
Under certain circumstances, we may recognize a major organizational component (e.g., the parent or a subsidiary) in a corporate or partnership structure as a bidder separate from the larger corporate or partnership structure. We also may recognize two or more major organizational components collectively as one bidder. All of the following criteria must be met for such component(s) to qualify for recognition as a separate bidder:
(a) Such component(s) must be prohibited by law or regulation from exchanging, or must have established written internal procedures designed to prevent the exchange of, information related to bidding in Treasury auctions with any other component in the corporate or partnership structure;
(b) Such component(s) must not be created for the purpose of circumventing our bidding and award limitations;
(c) Decisions related to purchasing Treasury securities at auction and participation in specific auctions must be made by employees of such component(s). Employees of such component(s) that make decisions to purchase or dispose of Treasury securities must not perform the same function for other components within the corporate or partnership structure; and
(d) The records of such component(s) related to the bidding for, acquisition of, and disposition of Treasury securities must be maintained by such component(s). Those records must be identifiable—separate and apart from similar records for other components within the corporate or partnership structure. To obtain recognition as a separate bidder, each component or group of components must request such recognition from us, provide a description of the component or group and its position within the corporate or partnership structure, and provide the following certification:
[Name of the bidder] hereby certifies that to the best of its knowledge and belief it meets the criteria for a separate bidder as described in appendix A to 31 CFR part 356. The above-named bidder also certifies that it has established written policies or procedures, including ongoing compliance monitoring processes, that are designed to prevent the component or group of components from:
(1) Exchanging any of the following information with any other part of the corporate [partnership] structure: (a) Yields, discount rates, or discount margins at which it plans to bid; (b) amounts of securities for which it plans to bid; (c) positions that it holds or plans to acquire in a security being auctioned; and (d) investment strategies that it plans to follow regarding the security being auctioned, or
(2) In any way intentionally acting together with any other part of the corporate [partnership] structure with respect to formulating or entering bids in a Treasury auction.
The above-named bidder agrees that it will promptly notify the Department in writing when any of the information provided to obtain separate bidder status changes or when this certification is no longer valid.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 29456, May 23, 2005; 78 FR 46430, July 31, 2013]]

Appendix B to Part 356—Formulas and Tables

I. Computation of Interest on Treasury Bonds and Notes.
II. Formulas for Conversion of Non-indexed Security Yields to Equivalent Prices.
III. Formulas for Conversion of Inflation-Protected Security Yields to Equivalent Prices.
IV. Formulas for Conversion of Floating Rate Note Discount Margins to Equivalent Prices
V. Computation of Adjusted Values and Payment Amounts for Stripped Inflation-Protected Interest Components.
VI. Computation of Purchase Price, Discount Rate, and Investment Rate (Coupon-Equivalent Yield) for Treasury Bills.
The examples in this appendix are given for illustrative purposes only and are in no way a prediction of interest rates on any bills, notes, or bonds issued under this part. In some of the following examples, we use intermediate rounding for ease in following the calculations.
I. Computation of Interest on Treasury Bonds and Notes
A. Treasury Non-indexed Securities
1. Regular Half-Year Payment Period. We pay interest on marketable Treasury non-indexed securities on a semiannual basis. The regular interest payment period is a full half-year of six calendar months. Examples of half-year periods are: (1) February 15 to August 15, (2) May 31 to November 30, and (3) February 29 to August 31 (in a leap year). Calculation of an interest payment for a non-indexed note with a par amount of $1,000 and an interest rate of 8% is made in this manner: ($1,000 × .08)/2 = $40. Specifically, a semiannual interest payment represents one half of one year's interest, and is computed on this basis regardless of the actual number of days in the half-year.
Regular Half-Year Payment Period.
We pay interest on marketable Treasury non-indexed securities on a semiannual basis. The regular interest payment period is a full half-year of six calendar months. Examples of half-year periods are: (1) February 15 to August 15, (2) May 31 to November 30, and (3) February 29 to August 31 (in a leap year). Calculation of an interest payment for a non-indexed note with a par amount of $1,000 and an interest rate of 8% is made in this manner: ($1,000 × .08)/2 = $40. Specifically, a semiannual interest payment represents one half of one year's interest, and is computed on this basis regardless of the actual number of days in the half-year.
2. Daily Interest Decimal. We compute a daily interest decimal in cases where an interest payment period for a non-indexed security is shorter or longer than six months or where accrued interest is payable by an investor. We base the daily interest decimal on the actual number of calendar days in the half-year or half-years involved. The number of days in any half-year period is shown in Table 1.
Daily Interest Decimal.
We compute a daily interest decimal in cases where an interest payment period for a non-indexed security is shorter or longer than six months or where accrued interest is payable by an investor. We base the daily interest decimal on the actual number of calendar days in the half-year or half-years involved. The number of days in any half-year period is shown in Table 1.
Table 1
Interest period
Beginning and ending days are 1st or 15th of the months listed under interest period
(number of days)
Beginning and ending days are the last days of the months listed under interest period
(number of days)
Regular year
Leap year
Regular year
Leap year
January to July
181
182
181
182
February to August
181
182
184
184
March to September
184
184
183
183
April to October
183
183
184
184
May to November
184
184
183
183
June to December
183
183
184
184
July to January
184
184
184
184
August to February
184
184
181
182
September to March
181
182
182
183
October to April
182
183
181
182
November to May
181
182
182
183
December to June
182
183
181
182
Table 2 below shows the daily interest decimals covering interest from 
1/8% to 20% on $1,000 for one day in increments of 
1/8 of one percent. These decimals represent 
1/181, 
1/182, 
1/183, or 
1/184 of a full semiannual interest payment, depending on which half-year is applicable.
1/8
% to 20% on $1,000 for one day in increments of
1/8
of one percent. These decimals represent
1/181
,
1/182
,
1/183
, or
1/184
of a full semiannual interest payment, depending on which half-year is applicable.
Table 2
[Decimal for one day's interest on $1,000 at various rates of interest, payable semiannually or on a semiannual basis, in regular years of 365 days and in years of 366 days (to determine applicable number of days, see table 1.)]
Rate per annum (percent)
Half-year of 184 days
Half-year of 183 days
Half-year of 182 days
Half-year of 181 days
1
⁄
8
0.003396739
0.003415301
0.003434066
0.003453039
1
⁄
4
0.006793478
0.006830601
0.006868132
0.006906077
3
⁄
8
0.010190217
0.010245902
0.010302198
0.010359116
1
⁄
2
0.013586957
0.013661202
0.013736264
0.013812155
5
⁄
8
0.016983696
0.017076503
0.017170330
0.017265193
3
⁄
4
0.020380435
0.020491803
0.020604396
0.020718232
7
⁄
8
0.023777174
0.023907104
0.024038462
0.024171271
1
0.027173913
0.027322404
0.027472527
0.027624309
1
1
⁄
8
0.030570652
0.030737705
0.030906593
0.031077348
1
1
⁄
4
0.033967391
0.034153005
0.034340659
0.034530387
1
3
⁄
8
0.037364130
0.037568306
0.037774725
0.037983425
1
1
⁄
2
0.040760870
0.040983607
0.041208791
0.041436464
1
5
⁄
8
0.044157609
0.044398907
0.044642857
0.044889503
1
3
⁄
4
0.047554348
0.047814208
0.048076923
0.048342541
1
7
⁄
8
0.050951087
0.051229508
0.051510989
0.051795580
2
0.054347826
0.054644809
0.054945055
0.055248619
2
1
⁄
8
0.057744565
0.058060109
0.058379121
0.058701657
2
1
⁄
4
0.061141304
0.061475410
0.061813187
0.062154696
2
3
⁄
8
0.064538043
0.064890710
0.065247253
0.065607735
2
1
⁄
2
0.067934783
0.068306011
0.068681319
0.069060773
2
5
⁄
8
0.071331522
0.071721311
0.072115385
0.072513812
2
3
⁄
4
0.074728261
0.075136612
0.075549451
0.075966851
2
7
⁄
8
0.078125000
0.078551913
0.078983516
0.079419890
3
0.081521739
0.081967213
0.082417582
0.082872928
3
1
⁄
8
0.084918478
0.085382514
0.085851648
0.086325967
3
1
⁄
4
0.088315217
0.088797814
0.089285714
0.089779006
3
3
⁄
8
0.091711957
0.092213115
0.092719780
0.093232044
3
1
⁄
2
0.095108696
0.095628415
0.096153846
0.096685083
3
5
⁄
8
0.098505435
0.099043716
0.099587912
0.100138122
3
3
⁄
4
0.101902174
0.102459016
0.103021978
0.103591160
3
7
⁄
8
0.105298913
0.105874317
0.106456044
0.107044199
4
0.108695652
0.109289617
0.109890110
0.110497238
4
1
⁄
8
0.112092391
0.112704918
0.113324176
0.113950276
4
1
⁄
4
0.115489130
0.116120219
0.116758242
0.117403315
4
3
⁄
8
0.118885870
0.119535519
0.120192308
0.120856354
4
1
⁄
2
0.122282609
0.122950820
0.123626374
0.124309392
4
5
⁄
8
0.125679348
0.126366120
0.127060440
0.127762431
4
3
⁄
4
0.129076087
0.129781421
0.130494505
0.131215470
4
7
⁄
8
0.132472826
0.133196721
0.133928571
0.134668508
5
0.135869565
0.136612022
0.137362637
0.138121547
5
1
⁄
8
0.139266304
0.140027322
0.140796703
0.141574586
5
1
⁄
4
0.142663043
0.143442623
0.144230769
0.145027624
5
3
⁄
8
0.146059783
0.146857923
0.147664835
0.148480663
5
1
⁄
2
0.149456522
0.150273224
0.151098901
0.151933702
5
5
⁄
8
0.152853261
0.153688525
0.154532967
0.155386740
5
3
⁄
4
0.156250000
0.157103825
0.157967033
0.158839779
5
7
⁄
8
0.159646739
0.160519126
0.161401099
0.162292818
6
0.163043478
0.163934426
0.164835165
0.165745856
6
1
⁄
8
0.166440217
0.167349727
0.168269231
0.169198895
6
1
⁄
4
0.169836957
0.170765027
0.171703297
0.172651934
6
3
⁄
8
0.173233696
0.174180328
0.175137363
0.176104972
6
1
⁄
2
0.176630435
0.177595628
0.178571429
0.179558011
6
5
⁄
8
0.180027174
0.181010929
0.182005495
0.183011050
6
3
⁄
4
0.183423913
0.184426230
0.185439560
0.186464088
6
7
⁄
8
0.186820652
0.187841530
0.188873626
0.189917127
7
0.190217391
0.191256831
0.192307692
0.193370166
7
1
⁄
8
0.193614130
0.194672131
0.195741758
0.196823204
7
1
⁄
4
0.197010870
0.198087432
0.199175824
0.200276243
7
3
⁄
8
0.200407609
0.201502732
0.202609890
0.203729282
7
1
⁄
2
0.203804348
0.204918033
0.206043956
0.207182320
7
5
⁄
8
0.207201087
0.208333333
0.209478022
0.210635359
7
3
⁄
4
0.210597826
0.211748634
0.212912088
0.214088398
7
7
⁄
8
0.213994565
0.215163934
0.216346154
0.217541436
8
0.217391304
0.218579235
0.219780220
0.220994475
8
1
⁄
8
0.220788043
0.221994536
0.223214286
0.224447514
8
1
⁄
4
0.224184783
0.225409836
0.226648352
0.227900552
8
3
⁄
8
0.227581522
0.228825137
0.230082418
0.231353591
8
1
⁄
2
0.230978261
0.232240437
0.233516484
0.234806630
8
5
⁄
8
0.234375000
0.235655738
0.236950549
0.238259669
8
3
⁄
4
0.237771739
0.239071038
0.240384615
0.241712707
8
7
⁄
8
0.241168478
0.242486339
0.243818681
0.245165746
9
0.244565217
0.245901639
0.247252747
0.248618785
9
1
⁄
8
0.247961957
0.249316940
0.250686813
0.252071823
9
1
⁄
4
0.251358696
0.252732240
0.254120879
0.255524862
9
3
⁄
8
0.254755435
0.256147541
0.257554945
0.258977901
9
1
⁄
2
0.258152174
0.259562842
0.260989011
0.262430939
9
5
⁄
8
0.261548913
0.262978142
0.264423077
0.265883978
9
3
⁄
4
0.264945652
0.266393443
0.267857143
0.269337017
9
7
⁄
8
0.268342391
0.269808743
0.271291209
0.272790055
10
0.271739130
0.273224044
0.274725275
0.276243094
10
1
⁄
8
0.275135870
0.276639344
0.278159341
0.279696133
10
1
⁄
4
0.278532609
0.280054645
0.281593407
0.283149171
10
3
⁄
8
0.281929348
0.283469945
0.285027473
0.286602210
10
1
⁄
2
0.285326087
0.286885246
0.288461538
0.290055249
10
5
⁄
8
0.288722826
0.290300546
0.291895604
0.293508287
10
3
⁄
4
0.292119565
0.293715847
0.295329670
0.296961326
10
7
⁄
8
0.295516304
0.297131148
0.298763736
0.300414365
11
0.298913043
0.300546448
0.302197802
0.303867403
11
1
⁄
8
0.302309783
0.303961749
0.305631868
0.307320442
11
1
⁄
4
0.305706522
0.307377049
0.309065934
0.310773481
11
3
⁄
8
0.309103261
0.310792350
0.312500000
0.314226519
11
1
⁄
2
0.312500000
0.314207650
0.315934066
0.317679558
11
5
⁄
8
0.315896739
0.317622951
0.319368132
0.321132597
11
3
⁄
4
0.319293478
0.321038251
0.322802198
0.324585635
11
7
⁄
8
0.322690217
0.324453552
0.326236264
0.328038674
12
0.326086957
0.327868852
0.329670330
0.331491713
12
1
⁄
8
0.329483696
0.331284153
0.333104396
0.334944751
12
1
⁄
4
0.332880435
0.334699454
0.336538462
0.338397790
12
3
⁄
8
0.336277174
0.338114754
0.339972527
0.341850829
12
1
⁄
2
0.339673913
0.341530055
0.343406593
0.345303867
12
5
⁄
8
0.343070652
0.344945355
0.346840659
0.348756906
12
3
⁄
4
0.346467391
0.348360656
0.350274725
0.352209945
12
7
⁄
8
0.349864130
0.351775956
0.353708791
0.355662983
13
0.353260870
0.355191257
0.357142857
0.359116022
13
1
⁄
8
0.356657609
0.358606557
0.360576923
0.362569061
13
1
⁄
4
0.360054348
0.362021858
0.364010989
0.366022099
13
3
⁄
8
0.363451087
0.365437158
0.367445055
0.369475138
13
1
⁄
2
0.366847826
0.368852459
0.370879121
0.372928177
13
5
⁄
8
0.370244565
0.372267760
0.374313187
0.376381215
13
3
⁄
4
0.373641304
0.375683060
0.377747253
0.379834254
13
7
⁄
8
0.377038043
0.379098361
0.381181319
0.383287293
14
0.380434783
0.382513661
0.384615385
0.386740331
14
1
⁄
8
0.383831522
0.385928962
0.388049451
0.390193370
14
1
⁄
4
0.387228261
0.389344262
0.391483516
0.393646409
14
3
⁄
8
0.390625000
0.392759563
0.394917582
0.397099448
14
1
⁄
2
0.394021739
0.396174863
0.398351648
0.400552486
14
5
⁄
8
0.397418478
0.399590164
0.401785714
0.404005525
14
3
⁄
4
0.400815217
0.403005464
0.405219780
0.407458564
14
7
⁄
8
0.404211957
0.406420765
0.408653846
0.410911602
15
0.407608696
0.409836066
0.412087912
0.414364641
15
1
⁄
8
0.411005435
0.413251366
0.415521978
0.417817680
15
1
⁄
4
0.414402174
0.416666667
0.418956044
0.421270718
15
3
⁄
8
0.417798913
0.420081967
0.422390110
0.424723757
15
1
⁄
2
0.421195652
0.423497268
0.425824176
0.428176796
15
5
⁄
8
0.424592391
0.426912568
0.429258242
0.431629834
15
3
⁄
4
0.427989130
0.430327869
0.432692308
0.435082873
15
7
⁄
8
0.431385870
0.433743169
0.436126374
0.438535912
16
0.434782609
0.437158470
0.439560440
0.441988950
16
1
⁄
8
0.438179348
0.440573770
0.442994505
0.445441989
16
1
⁄
4
0.441576087
0.443989071
0.446428571
0.448895028
16
3
⁄
8
0.444972826
0.447404372
0.449862637
0.452348066
16
1
⁄
2
0.448369565
0.450819672
0.453296703
0.455801105
16
5
⁄
8
0.451766304
0.454234973
0.456730769
0.459254144
16
3
⁄
4
0.455163043
0.457650273
0.460164835
0.462707182
16
7
⁄
8
0.458559783
0.461065574
0.463598901
0.466160221
17
0.461956522
0.464480874
0.467032967
0.469613260
17
1
⁄
8
0.465353261
0.467896175
0.470467033
0.473066298
17
1
⁄
4
0.468750000
0.471311475
0.473901099
0.476519337
17
3
⁄
8
0.472146739
0.474726776
0.477335165
0.479972376
17
1
⁄
2
0.475543478
0.478142077
0.480769231
0.483425414
17
5
⁄
8
0.478940217
0.481557377
0.484203297
0.486878453
17
3
⁄
4
0.482336957
0.484972678
0.487637363
0.490331492
17
7
⁄
8
0.485733696
0.488387978
0.491071429
0.493784530
18
0.489130435
0.491803279
0.494505495
0.497237569
18
1
⁄
8
0.492527174
0.495218579
0.497939560
0.500690608
18
1
⁄
4
0.495923913
0.498633880
0.501373626
0.504143646
18
3
⁄
8
0.499320652
0.502049180
0.504807692
0.507596685
18
1
⁄
2
0.502717391
0.505464481
0.508241758
0.511049724
18
5
⁄
8
0.506114130
0.508879781
0.511675824
0.514502762
18
3
⁄
4
0.509510870
0.512295082
0.515109890
0.517955801
18
7
⁄
8
0.512907609
0.515710383
0.518543956
0.521408840
19
0.516304348
0.519125683
0.521978022
0.524861878
19
1
⁄
8
0.519701087
0.522540984
0.525412088
0.528314917
19
1
⁄
4
0.523097826
0.525956284
0.528846154
0.531767956
19
3
⁄
8
0.526494565
0.529371585
0.532280220
0.535220994
19
1
⁄
2
0.529891304
0.532786885
0.535714286
0.538674033
19
5
⁄
8
0.533288043
0.536202186
0.539148352
0.542127072
19
3
⁄
4
0.536684783
0.539617486
0.542582418
0.545580110
19
7
⁄
8
0.540081522
0.543032787
0.546016484
0.549033149
20
0.543478261
0.546448087
0.549450549
0.552486188
3. Short First Payment Period. In cases where the first interest payment period for a Treasury non-indexed security covers less than a full half-year period (a “short coupon”), we multiply the daily interest decimal by the number of days from, but not including, the issue date to, and including, the first interest payment date. This calculation results in the amount of the interest payable per $1,000 par amount. In cases where the par amount of securities is a multiple of $1,000, we multiply the appropriate multiple by the unrounded interest payment amount per $1,000 par amount.
Short First Payment Period.
In cases where the first interest payment period for a Treasury non-indexed security covers less than a full half-year period (a “short coupon”), we multiply the daily interest decimal by the number of days from, but not including, the issue date to, and including, the first interest payment date. This calculation results in the amount of the interest payable per $1,000 par amount. In cases where the par amount of securities is a multiple of $1,000, we multiply the appropriate multiple by the unrounded interest payment amount per $1,000 par amount.
Example
A 2-year note paying 8
3/8% interest was issued on July 2, 1990, with the first interest payment on December 31, 1990. The number of days in the full half-year period of June 30 to December 31, 1990, was 184 (See Table 1.). The number of days for which interest actually accrued was 182 (not including July 2, but including December 31). The daily interest decimal, $0.227581522 (See Table 2, line for 8
3/8%, under the column for half-year of 184 days.), was multiplied by 182, resulting in a payment of $41.419837004 per $1,000. For $20,000 of these notes, $41.419837004 would be multiplied by 20, resulting in a payment of $828.39674008 ($828.40).
3/8
% interest was issued on July 2, 1990, with the first interest payment on December 31, 1990. The number of days in the full half-year period of June 30 to December 31, 1990, was 184 (See Table 1.). The number of days for which interest actually accrued was 182 (not including July 2, but including December 31). The daily interest decimal, $0.227581522 (See Table 2, line for 8
3/8
%, under the column for half-year of 184 days.), was multiplied by 182, resulting in a payment of $41.419837004 per $1,000. For $20,000 of these notes, $41.419837004 would be multiplied by 20, resulting in a payment of $828.39674008 ($828.40).
4. Long First Payment Period. In cases where the first interest payment period for a bond or note covers more than a full half-year period (a “long coupon”), we multiply the daily interest decimal by the number of days from, but not including, the issue date to, and including, the last day of the fractional period that ends one full half-year before the interest payment date. We add that amount to the regular interest amount for the full half-year ending on the first interest payment date, resulting in the amount of interest payable for $1,000 par amount. In cases where the par amount of securities is a multiple of $1,000, the appropriate multiple should be applied to the unrounded interest payment amount per $1,000 par amount.
Long First Payment Period.
In cases where the first interest payment period for a bond or note covers more than a full half-year period (a “long coupon”), we multiply the daily interest decimal by the number of days from, but not including, the issue date to, and including, the last day of the fractional period that ends one full half-year before the interest payment date. We add that amount to the regular interest amount for the full half-year ending on the first interest payment date, resulting in the amount of interest payable for $1,000 par amount. In cases where the par amount of securities is a multiple of $1,000, the appropriate multiple should be applied to the unrounded interest payment amount per $1,000 par amount.
Example
A 5-year 2-month note paying 7
7/8% interest was issued on December 3, 1990, with the first interest payment due on August 15, 1991. Interest for the regular half-year portion of the payment was computed to be $39.375 per $1,000 par amount. The fractional portion of the payment, from December 3 to February 15, fell in a 184-day half-year (August 15, 1990, to February 15, 1991). Accordingly, the daily interest decimal for 7
7/8% was $0.213994565. This decimal, multiplied by 74 (the number of days from but not including December 3, 1990, to and including February 15), resulted in interest for the fractional portion of $15.835597810. When added to $39.375 (the normal interest payment portion ending on August 15, 1991), this produced a first interest payment of $55.210597810, or $55.21 per $1,000 par amount. For $7,000 par amount of these notes, $55.210597810 would be multiplied by 7, resulting in an interest payment of $386.474184670 ($386.47).
7/8
% interest was issued on December 3, 1990, with the first interest payment due on August 15, 1991. Interest for the regular half-year portion of the payment was computed to be $39.375 per $1,000 par amount. The fractional portion of the payment, from December 3 to February 15, fell in a 184-day half-year (August 15, 1990, to February 15, 1991). Accordingly, the daily interest decimal for 7
7/8
% was $0.213994565. This decimal, multiplied by 74 (the number of days from but not including December 3, 1990, to and including February 15), resulted in interest for the fractional portion of $15.835597810. When added to $39.375 (the normal interest payment portion ending on August 15, 1991), this produced a first interest payment of $55.210597810, or $55.21 per $1,000 par amount. For $7,000 par amount of these notes, $55.210597810 would be multiplied by 7, resulting in an interest payment of $386.474184670 ($386.47).
B. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities
1. Indexing Process. We pay interest on marketable Treasury inflation-protected securities on a semiannual basis. We issue inflation-protected securities with a stated rate of interest that remains constant until maturity. Interest payments are based on the security's inflation-adjusted principal at the time we pay interest. We make this adjustment by multiplying the par amount of the security by the applicable Index Ratio.
Indexing Process.
We pay interest on marketable Treasury inflation-protected securities on a semiannual basis. We issue inflation-protected securities with a stated rate of interest that remains constant until maturity. Interest payments are based on the security's inflation-adjusted principal at the time we pay interest. We make this adjustment by multiplying the par amount of the security by the applicable Index Ratio.
2. Index Ratio. The numerator of the Index Ratio, the Ref CPIDate, is the index number applicable for a specific day. The denominator of the Index Ratio is the Ref CPI applicable for the original issue date. However, when the dated date is different from the original issue date, the denominator is the Ref CPI applicable for the dated date. The formula for calculating the Index Ratio is:
Index Ratio.
The numerator of the Index Ratio, the Ref CPI
Date
, is the index number applicable for a specific day. The denominator of the Index Ratio is the Ref CPI applicable for the original issue date. However, when the dated date is different from the original issue date, the denominator is the Ref CPI applicable for the dated date. The formula for calculating the Index Ratio is:
Where Date = valuation date
3. Reference CPI. The Ref CPI for the first day of any calendar month is the CPI for the third preceding calendar month. For example, the Ref CPI applicable to April 1 in any year is the CPI for January, which is reported in February. We determine the Ref CPI for any other day of a month by a linear interpolation between the Ref CPI applicable to the first day of the month in which the day falls (in the example, January) and the Ref CPI applicable to the first day of the next month (in the example, February). For interpolation purposes, we truncate calculations with regard to the Ref CPI and the Index Ratio for a specific date to six decimal places, and round to five decimal places.
Reference CPI.
The Ref CPI for the first day of any calendar month is the CPI for the third preceding calendar month. For example, the Ref CPI applicable to April 1 in any year is the CPI for January, which is reported in February. We determine the Ref CPI for any other day of a month by a linear interpolation between the Ref CPI applicable to the first day of the month in which the day falls (in the example, January) and the Ref CPI applicable to the first day of the next month (in the example, February). For interpolation purposes, we truncate calculations with regard to the Ref CPI and the Index Ratio for a specific date to six decimal places, and round to five decimal places.
Therefore the Ref CPI and the Index Ratio for a particular date will be expressed to five decimal places.
(i) The formula for the Ref CPI for a specific date is:
Where Date = valuation date
D = the number of days in the month in which Date falls
t = the calendar day corresponding to Date
CPI
M
= CPI reported for the calendar month M by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
Ref CPI
M
= Ref CPI for the first day of the calendar month in which Date falls, e.g., Ref CPI
April1
is the CPI
January
Ref CPI
M + 1
= Ref CPI for the first day of the calendar month immediately following Date
(ii) For example, the Ref CPI for April 15, 1996 is calculated as follows:
where D = 30, t = 15
Ref CPI
April 1, 1996
= 154.40, the non-seasonally adjusted CPI-U for January 1996.
Ref CPI
May 1, 1996
= 154.90, the non-seasonally adjusted CPI-U for February 1996.
(iii) Putting these values in the equation in paragraph (ii) above:
This value truncated to six decimals is 154.633333; rounded to five decimals it is 154.63333.
(iv) To calculate the Index Ratio for April 16, 1996, for an inflation-protected security issued on April 15, 1996, the Ref CPIApril 16, 1996 must first be calculated. Using the same values in the equation above except that t = 16, the Ref CPIApril 16, 1996 is 154.65000.
April 16, 1996
must first be calculated. Using the same values in the equation above except that t = 16, the Ref CPI
April 16, 1996
is 154.65000.
The Index Ratio for April 16, 1996 is:
Index Ratio
April 16, 1996
= 154.65000/154.63333 = 1.000107803.
This value truncated to six decimals is 1.000107; rounded to five decimals it is 1.00011.
4. Index Contingencies.
Index Contingencies.
(i) If a previously reported CPI is revised, we will continue to use the previously reported (unrevised) CPI in calculating the principal value and interest payments.
If the CPI is rebased to a different year, we will continue to use the CPI based on the base reference period in effect when the security was first issued, as long as that CPI continues to be published.
(ii) We will replace the CPI with an appropriate alternative index if, while an inflation-protected security is outstanding, the applicable CPI is:
• Discontinued,
• In the judgment of the Secretary, fundamentally altered in a manner materially adverse to the interests of an investor in the security, or
• In the judgment of the Secretary, altered by legislation or Executive Order in a manner materially adverse to the interests of an investor in the security.
(iii) If we decide to substitute an alternative index we will consult with the Bureau of Labor Statistics or any successor agency. We will then notify the public of the substitute index and how we will apply it. Determinations of the Secretary in this regard will be final.
(iv) If the CPI for a particular month is not reported by the last day of the following month, we will announce an index number based on the last available twelve-month change in the CPI. We will base our calculations of our payment obligations that rely on that month's CPI on the index number we announce.
(a) For example, if the CPI for month M is not reported timely, the formula for calculating the index number to be used is:
(b) Generalizing for the last reported CPI issued N months prior to month M:
(c) If it is necessary to use these formulas to calculate an index number, we will use that number for all subsequent calculations that rely on the month's index number. We will not replace it with the actual CPI when it is reported, except for use in the above formulas. If it becomes necessary to use the above formulas to derive an index number, we will use the last CPI that has been reported to calculate CPI numbers for months for which the CPI has not been reported timely.
5. Computation of Interest for a Regular Half-Year Payment Period. Interest on marketable Treasury inflation-protected securities is payable on a semiannual basis. The regular interest payment period is a full half-year or six calendar months. Examples of half-year periods are January 15 to July 15, and April 15 to October 15. An interest payment will be a fixed percentage of the value of the inflation-adjusted principal, in current dollars, for the date on which it is paid. We will calculate interest payments by multiplying one-half of the specified annual interest rate for the inflation-protected securities by the inflation-adjusted principal for the interest payment date.
Computation of Interest for a Regular Half-Year Payment Period.
Interest on marketable Treasury inflation-protected securities is payable on a semiannual basis. The regular interest payment period is a full half-year or six calendar months. Examples of half-year periods are January 15 to July 15, and April 15 to October 15. An interest payment will be a fixed percentage of the value of the inflation-adjusted principal, in current dollars, for the date on which it is paid. We will calculate interest payments by multiplying one-half of the specified annual interest rate for the inflation-protected securities by the inflation-adjusted principal for the interest payment date.
Specifically, we compute a semiannual interest payment on the basis of one-half of one year's interest regardless of the actual number of days in the half-year.
Example
A 10-year inflation-protected note paying 3
7/8% interest was issued on January 15, 1999, with the first interest payment on July 15, 1999. The Ref CPI on January 15, 1999 (Ref CPIIssueDate) was 164, and the Ref CPI on July 15, 1999 (Ref CPIDate) was 166.2. For a par amount of $100,000, the inflation-adjusted principal on July 15, 1999, was (166.2/164) × $100,000, or $101,341. This amount was multiplied by .03875/2, or .019375, resulting in a payment of $1,963.48.
7/8%
interest was issued on January 15, 1999, with the first interest payment on July 15, 1999. The Ref CPI on January 15, 1999 (Ref CPI
IssueDate
) was 164, and the Ref CPI on July 15, 1999 (Ref CPI
Date
) was 166.2. For a par amount of $100,000, the inflation-adjusted principal on July 15, 1999, was (166.2/164) × $100,000, or $101,341. This amount was multiplied by .03875/2, or .019375, resulting in a payment of $1,963.48.
C. Treasury Floating Rate Notes
1. Indexing and Interest Payment Process. We issue floating rate notes with a daily interest accrual feature. This means that the interest rate “floats” based on changes in the representative index rate. We pay interest on a quarterly basis. The index rate is the High Rate of the 13-week Treasury bill auction announced on the auction results that has been converted into a simple-interest money market yield computed on an actual/360 basis and rounded to nine decimal places. Interest payments are based on the floating rate note's variable interest rate from, and including, the dated date or last interest payment date to, but excluding, the next interest payment or maturity date. We make quarterly interest payments by accruing the daily interest amounts and adding those amounts together for the interest payment period.
Indexing and Interest Payment Process.
We issue floating rate notes with a daily interest accrual feature. This means that the interest rate “floats” based on changes in the representative index rate. We pay interest on a quarterly basis. The index rate is the High Rate of the 13-week Treasury bill auction announced on the auction results that has been converted into a simple-interest money market yield computed on an actual/360 basis and rounded to nine decimal places. Interest payments are based on the floating rate note's variable interest rate from, and including, the dated date or last interest payment date to, but excluding, the next interest payment or maturity date. We make quarterly interest payments by accruing the daily interest amounts and adding those amounts together for the interest payment period.
2. Interest Rate. The interest rate on floating rate notes will be the spread plus the index rate (as it may be adjusted on the calendar day following each auction of 13-week bills).
Interest Rate.
The interest rate on floating rate notes will be the spread plus the index rate (as it may be adjusted on the calendar day following each auction of 13-week bills).
3. Interest Accrual. In general, accrued interest for a particular calendar day in an accrual period is calculated by using the index rate from the most recent auction of 13-week bills that took place before the accrual day, plus the spread determined at the time of a new floating rate note auction, divided by 360, subject to a zero-percent minimum daily interest accrual rate. However, the rate determined in a 13-week bill auction that takes place in the two-business-day period prior to a settlement date or interest payment date will be excluded from the calculation of accrued interest for purposes of the settlement amount or interest payment. Any changes in the index rate that would otherwise have occurred during this two-business-day period will occur on the first calendar day following the end of the period.
Interest Accrual.
In general, accrued interest for a particular calendar day in an accrual period is calculated by using the index rate from the most recent auction of 13-week bills that took place before the accrual day, plus the spread determined at the time of a new floating rate note auction, divided by 360, subject to a zero-percent minimum daily interest accrual rate. However, the rate determined in a 13-week bill auction that takes place in the two-business-day period prior to a settlement date or interest payment date will be excluded from the calculation of accrued interest for purposes of the settlement amount or interest payment. Any changes in the index rate that would otherwise have occurred during this two-business-day period will occur on the first calendar day following the end of the period.
4. Index Contingencies.
Index Contingencies.
(i) If Treasury were to discontinue auctions of 13-week bills, the Secretary has authority to determine and announce a new index for outstanding floating rate notes.
(ii) If Treasury were to not conduct a 13-week bill auction in a particular week, then the interest rate in effect for the notes at the time of the last 13-week bill auction results announcement will remain in effect until such time, if any, as the results of a 13-week Treasury auction are again announced by Treasury. Treasury reserves the right to change the index rate for any newly issued floating rate note.
D. Accrued Interest
1. You will have to pay accrued interest on a Treasury bond or note when interest accrues prior to the issue date of the security. Because you receive a full interest payment despite having held the security for only a portion of the interest payment period, you must compensate us through the payment of accrued interest at settlement.
2. For a Treasury non-indexed security, if accrued interest covers a fractional portion of a full half-year period, the number of days in the full half-year period and the stated interest rate will determine the daily interest decimal to use in computing the accrued interest. We multiply the decimal by the number of days for which interest has accrued.
3. If a reopened bond or note has a long first interest payment period (a “long coupon”), and the dated date for the reopened issue is less than six full months before the first interest payment, the accrued interest will fall into two separate half-year periods. A separate daily interest decimal must be multiplied by the respective number of days in each half-year period during which interest has accrued.
4. We round all accrued interest computations to five decimal places for a $1,000 par amount, using normal rounding procedures. We calculate accrued interest for a par amount of securities greater than $1,000 by applying the appropriate multiple to accrued interest payable for a $1,000 par amount, rounded to five decimal places. We calculate accrued interest for a par amount of securities less than $1,000 by applying the appropriate fraction to accrued interest payable for a $1,000 par amount, rounded to five decimal places.
5. For an inflation-protected security, we calculate accrued interest as shown in section III, paragraphs A and B of this appendix.
Examples:
(1)
Treasury Non-indexed Securities—(i) Involving One Half-Year:
A note paying interest at a rate of 6
3/4%
, originally issued on May 15, 2000, as a 5-year note with a first interest payment date of November 15, 2000, was reopened as a 4-year 9-month note on August 15, 2000. Interest had accrued for 92 days, from May 15 to August 15. The regular interest period from May 15 to November 15, 2000, covered 184 days. Accordingly, the daily interest decimal, $0.183423913, multiplied by 92, resulted in accrued interest payable of $16.874999996, or $16.87500, for each $1,000 note purchased. If the notes have a par amount of $150,000, then 150 is multiplied by $16.87500, resulting in an amount payable of $2,531.25.
(2) Involving Two Half-Years:
Involving Two Half-Years:
A 10
3/4% bond, originally issued on July 2, 1985, as a 20-year 1-month bond, with a first interest payment date of February 15, 1986, was reopened as a 19-year 10-month bond on November 4, 1985. Interest had accrued for 44 days, from July 2 to August 15, 1985, during a 181-day half-year (February 15 to August 15); and for 81 days, from August 15 to November 4, during a 184-day half-year (August 15, 1985, to February 15, 1986). Accordingly, $0.296961326 was multiplied by 44, and $0.292119565 was multiplied by 81, resulting in products of $13.066298344 and $23.661684765 which, added together, resulted in accrued interest payable of $36.727983109, or $36.72798, for each $1,000 bond purchased. If the bonds have a par amount of $11,000, then 11 is multiplied by $36.72798, resulting in an amount payable of $404.00778 ($404.01).
3/4%
bond, originally issued on July 2, 1985, as a 20-year 1-month bond, with a first interest payment date of February 15, 1986, was reopened as a 19-year 10-month bond on November 4, 1985. Interest had accrued for 44 days, from July 2 to August 15, 1985, during a 181-day half-year (February 15 to August 15); and for 81 days, from August 15 to November 4, during a 184-day half-year (August 15, 1985, to February 15, 1986). Accordingly, $0.296961326 was multiplied by 44, and $0.292119565 was multiplied by 81, resulting in products of $13.066298344 and $23.661684765 which, added together, resulted in accrued interest payable of $36.727983109, or $36.72798, for each $1,000 bond purchased. If the bonds have a par amount of $11,000, then 11 is multiplied by $36.72798, resulting in an amount payable of $404.00778 ($404.01).
6. For a floating rate note, if accrued interest covers a portion of a full quarterly interest payment period, we calculate accrued interest as shown in section IV, paragraphs C and D of this appendix.
II. Formulas for Conversion of Non-indexed Security Yields to Equivalent Prices
Definitions
P = price per 100 (dollars), rounded to six places, using normal rounding procedures.
C = the regular annual interest per $100, payable semiannually, e.g., 6.125 (the decimal equivalent of a 6
1/8
% interest rate).
i = nominal annual rate of return or yield to maturity, based on semiannual interest payments and expressed in decimals, e.g., .0719.
n = number of full semiannual periods from the issue date to maturity, except that, if the issue date is a coupon frequency date, n will be one less than the number of full semiannual periods remaining to maturity. Coupon frequency dates are the two semiannual dates based on the maturity date of each note or bond issue. For example, a security maturing on November 15, 2015, would have coupon frequency dates of May 15 and November 15.
r = (1) number of days from the issue date to the first interest payment (regular or short first payment period), or (2) number of days in fractional portion (or “initial short period”) of long first payment period.
s = (1) number of days in the full semiannual period ending on the first interest payment date (regular or short first payment period), or (2) number of days in the full semiannual period in which the fractional portion of a long first payment period falls, ending at the onset of the regular portion of the first interest payment.
v
n
= 1 / [1 + (i/2)]
n
= present value of 1 due at the end of n periods.
a
n
= (1 − v
n
) / (i/2) = v + v
2
+ v
3
+ ... + v
n
= present value of 1 per period for n periods
Special Case: If i = 0, then an⌉ = n. Furthermore, when i = 0, an⌉ cannot be calculated using the formula: (1 − v
n)/(i/2). In the special case where i = 0, an⌉ must be calculated as the summation of the individual present values (i.e., v + v
2 + v
3 + ... + v
n). Using the summation method will always confirm that an⌉ = n when i = 0.
Special Case:
If i = 0, then a
n
⌉ = n. Furthermore, when i = 0, a
n
⌉ cannot be calculated using the formula: (1 − v
n
)/(i/2). In the special case where i = 0, a
n
⌉ must be calculated as the summation of the individual present values (
i.e.
, v + v
2
+ v
3
+ ... + v
n
). Using the summation method will always confirm that a
n
⌉ = n when i = 0.
A = accrued interest.
A. For non-indexed securities with a regular first interest payment period:
For non-indexed securities with a regular first interest payment period:
Formula:
P[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = (C/2)(r/s) + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
.
Example:
For an 8
3/4% 30-year bond issued May 15, 1990, due May 15, 2020, with interest payments on November 15 and May 15, solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 8.84%.
3/4
% 30-year bond issued May 15, 1990, due May 15, 2020, with interest payments on November 15 and May 15, solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 8.84%.
Definitions:G12752
C = 8.75.
i = .0884.
r = 184 (May 15 to November 15, 1990).
s = 184 (May 15 to November 15, 1990).
n = 59 (There are 60 full semiannual periods, but n is reduced by 1 because the issue date is a coupon frequency date.)
v
n
= 1 / [(1 + .0884 / 2)]
59
, or .0779403508.
a
n
⌉ = (1 − .0779403508) / .0442, or 20.8610780353.
Resolution:
P[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = (C/2)(r/s) + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
or
P[1 + (184/184)(.0884/2)] = (8.75/2)(184/184) + (8.75/2)(20.8610780353) + 100(.0779403508).
(1) P[1 + .0442] = 4.375 + 91.2672164044 + 7.7940350840.
(2) P[1.0442] = 103.4362514884.
(3) P = 103.4362514884 / 1.0442.
(4) P = 99.057893.
B. For non-indexed securities with a short first interest payment period:
For non-indexed securities with a short first interest payment period:
Formula:
P[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = (C/2)(r/s) + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
.
Example:
For an 8
1/2% 2-year note issued April 2, 1990, due March 31, 1992, with interest payments on September 30 and March 31, solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 8.59%.
1/2
% 2-year note issued April 2, 1990, due March 31, 1992, with interest payments on September 30 and March 31, solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 8.59%.
Definitions:
C = 8.50.
i = .0859.
n = 3.
r = 181 (April 2 to September 30, 1990).
s = 183 (March 31 to September 30, 1990).
v
n
= 1 / [(1 + .0859 / 2)]
3
, or .8814740565.
a
n
⌉ = (1 − .8814740565) / .04295, or 2.7596261590.
Resolution:
P[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = (C/2)(r/s) + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
or
P[1 + (181/183)(.0859/2)] = (8.50/2)(181/183) + (8.50/2)(2.7596261590) + 100(.8814740565).
(1) P[1 + .042480601] = 4.2035519126 + 11.7284111757 + 88.14740565.
(2) P[1.042480601] = 104.0793687354.
(3) P = 104.0793687354 / 1.042480601.
(4) P = 99.838183.
C. For non-indexed securities with a long first interest payment period:
For non-indexed securities with a long first interest payment period:
Formula:
P[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = [(C/2)(r/s)]v + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
.
Example:
For an 8
1/2% 5-year 2-month note issued March 1, 1990, due May 15, 1995, with interest payments on November 15 and May 15 (first payment on November 15, 1990), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 8.53%.
1/2
% 5-year 2-month note issued March 1, 1990, due May 15, 1995, with interest payments on November 15 and May 15 (first payment on November 15, 1990), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 8.53%.
Definitions:
C = 8.50.
i = .0853.
n = 10.
r = 75 (March 1 to May 15, 1990, which is the fractional portion of the first interest payment).
s = 181 (November 15, 1989, to May 15, 1990).
v = 1 / (1 + .0853/2), or .9590946147.
v
n
= 1 / (1 + .0853/2)
10
, or .658589
a
n
⌉ = (1−.658589)/.04265, or 8.0049454082.
Resolution:
P[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = [(C/2)(r/s)]v + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
or
P[1 + (75/181)(.0853/2)] = [(8.50/2)(75/181)].9590946147 + (8.50/2)(8.0049454082) + 100(.6585890783).
(1) P[1 + .017672652] = 1.6890133062 + 34.0210179850 + 65.8589078339.
(2) P[1.017672652] = 101.5689391251.
(3) P = 101.5689391251 / 1.017672652.
(4) P = 99.805118.
D. (1) For non-indexed securities reopened during a regular interest period where the purchase price includes predetermined accrued interest.
For non-indexed securities reopened during a regular interest period where the purchase price includes predetermined accrued interest.
(2) For new non-indexed securities accruing interest from the coupon frequency date immediately preceding the issue date, with the interest rate established in the auction being used to determine the accrued interest payable on the issue date.
For new non-indexed securities accruing interest from the coupon frequency date immediately preceding the issue date, with the interest rate established in the auction being used to determine the accrued interest payable on the issue date.
Formula:
(P + A)[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = C/2 + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
.
Where:
A = [(s−r)/s](C/2).
Example:
For a 9
1/2% 10-year note with interest accruing from November 15, 1985, issued November 29, 1985, due November 15, 1995, and interest payments on May 15 and November 15, solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 9.54%. Accrued interest is from November 15 to November 29 (14 days).
1/2
% 10-year note with interest accruing from November 15, 1985, issued November 29, 1985, due November 15, 1995, and interest payments on May 15 and November 15, solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 9.54%. Accrued interest is from November 15 to November 29 (14 days).
Definitions:
C = 9.50.
i = .0954.
n = 19.
r = 167 (November 29, 1985, to May 15, 1986).
s = 181 (November 15, 1985, to May 15, 1986).
v
n
= 1 / [(1 + .0954/2)]
19
, or .4125703996.
a
n
⌉ = (1 − .4125703996) / .0477, or 12.3150859630.
A = [(181 − 167) / 181](9.50/2), or .367403.
Resolution:
(P + A)[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = C/2 + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
or
(P + .367403)[1 + (167/181)(.0954/2)] = (9.50/2) + (9.50/2)(12.3150859630) + 100(.4125703996).
(1) (P + .367403)[1 + .044010497] = 4.75 + 58.4966583243 + 41.25703996.
(2) (P + .367403)[1.044010497] = 104.5036982843.
(3) (P + .367403) = 104.5036982843 / 1.044010497.
(4) (P + .367403) = 100.098321.
(5) P = 100.098321 −.367403.
(6) P = 99.730918.
E. For non-indexed securities reopened during the regular portion of a long first payment period:
For non-indexed securities reopened during the regular portion of a long first payment period:
Formula:
(P + A)[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = (r′s″)(C/2) + C 2 + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
.
Where:
A = AI′ + AI,
AI′ = (r′/s″)(C/2),
AI = [(s−r) / s](C/2), and
r = number of days from the reopening date to the first interest payment date,
s = number of days in the semiannual period for the regular portion of the first interest payment period,
r′ = number of days in the fractional portion (or “initial short period”) of the first interest payment period,
s″ = number of days in the semiannual period ending with the commencement date of the regular portion of the first interest payment period.
Example:
A 10
3/4% 19-year 9-month bond due August 15, 2005, is issued on July 2, 1985, and reopened on November 4, 1985, with interest payments on February 15 and August 15 (first payment on February 15, 1986), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 10.47%. Accrued interest is calculated from July 2 to November 4.
3/4
% 19-year 9-month bond due August 15, 2005, is issued on July 2, 1985, and reopened on November 4, 1985, with interest payments on February 15 and August 15 (first payment on February 15, 1986), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 10.47%. Accrued interest is calculated from July 2 to November 4.
Definitions:
C = 10.75.
i = .1047.
n = 39.
r = 103 (November 4, 1985, to February 15, 1986).
s = 184 (August 15, 1985, to February 15, 1986).
r′ = 44 (July 2 to August 15, 1985).
s″ = 181 (February 15 to August 15, 1985).
v
n
= 1 / [(1 + .1047 / 2)]
39
, or .1366947986.
a
n
⌉ = (1 − .1366947986) / .05235, or 16.4910258142.
AI′ = (44 / 181)(10.75 / 2), or 1.306630.
AI = [(184 − 103) / 184](10.75 / 2), or 2.366168.
A = AI′ + AI, or 3.672798.
Resolution:
(P + A)[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = (r′/s″)(C/2) + C/2 + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
or
(P + 3.672798)[1 + (103/184)(.1047/2)] = (44/181)(10.75/2) + 10.75/2 + (10.75/2)(16.4910258142) + 100(.1366947986).
(1) (P + 3.672798)[1 + .02930462] = 1.3066298343 + 5.375 + 88.6392637512 + 13.6694798628.
(2) (P + 3.672798)[1.02930462] = 108.9903734482.
(3) (P + 3.672798) = 108.9903734482 / 1.02930462.
(4) (P + 3.672798) = 105.887384.
(5) P = 105.887384 −3.672798.
(6) P = 102.214586.
F. For non-indexed securities reopened during a short first payment period:
For non-indexed securities reopened during a short first payment period:
Formula:
(P + A)[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = (r′/s)(C/2) + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
.
Where:
A = [(r′ − r)/s](C/2) and
r′ = number of days from the original issue date to the first interest payment date.
Example:
For a 10
1/2% 8-year note due May 15, 1991, originally issued on May 16, 1983, and reopened on August 15, 1983, with interest payments on November 15 and May 15 (first payment on November 15, 1983), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 10.53%. Accrued interest is calculated from May 16 to August 15.
1/2
% 8-year note due May 15, 1991, originally issued on May 16, 1983, and reopened on August 15, 1983, with interest payments on November 15 and May 15 (first payment on November 15, 1983), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 10.53%. Accrued interest is calculated from May 16 to August 15.
Definitions:
C = 10.50.
i = .1053.
n = 15.
r = 92 (August 15, 1983, to November 15, 1983).
s = 184 (May 15, 1983, to November 15, 1983).
r′ = 183 (May 16, 1983, to November 15, 1983).
v
n
= 1/[(1 + .1053/2)]
15
, or .4631696332.
a
n
⌉ = (1 − .4631696332) / .05265, or 10.1962082956.
A = [(183 − 92) / 184](10.50 / 2), or 2.596467.
Resolution:
(P + A)[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = (r′/s)(C/2) + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
or
(P + 2.596467)[1 + (92/184)(.1053/2)] = (183/184)(10.50/2) + (10.50/2)(10.1962082956) + 100(.4631696332).
(1) (P + 2.596467)[1 + .026325] = 5.2214673913 + 53.5300935520 + 46.31696332.
(2) (P + 2.596467)[1.026325] = 105.0685242633.
(3) (P + 2.596467) = 105.0685242633 / 1.026325.
(4) (P + 2.596467) = 102.373541.
(5) P = 102.373541 − 2.596467.
(6) P = 99.777074.
G. For non-indexed securities reopened during the fractional portion (initial short period) of a long first payment period:
For non-indexed securities reopened during the fractional portion (initial short period) of a long first payment period:
Formula:
(P + A)[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = [(r′/s)(C/2)]v + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
.
Where:
A = [(r′ − r)/s](C/2), and
r = number of days from the reopening date to the end of the short period.
r′ = number of days in the short period.
s = number of days in the semiannual period ending with the end of the short period.
Example:
For a 9
3/4% 6-year 2-month note due December 15, 1994, originally issued on October 15, 1988, and reopened on November 15, 1988, with interest payments on June 15 and December 15 (first payment on June 15, 1989), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 9.79%. Accrued interest is calculated from October 15 to November 15.
3/4
% 6-year 2-month note due December 15, 1994, originally issued on October 15, 1988, and reopened on November 15, 1988, with interest payments on June 15 and December 15 (first payment on June 15, 1989), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a yield of 9.79%. Accrued interest is calculated from October 15 to November 15.
Definitions:
C = 9.75.
i = .0979.
n = 12.
r = 30 (November 15, 1988, to December 15, 1988).
s = 183 (June 15, 1988, to December 15, 1988).
r′ = 61 (October 15, 1988, to December 15, 1988).
v = 1 / (1 + .0979/2), or .9533342867.
v
n
= [1 / (1 + .0979/2)]
12
, or .5635631040.
a
n
⌉ = (1 − .5635631040)/.04895, or 8.9159733613.
A = [(61 − 30)/183](9.75/2), or .825820.
Resolution:
(P + A)[1 + (r/s)(i/2)] = [(r′/s)(C/2)]v + (C/2)a
n
⌉ + 100v
n
or
(P + .825820)[1 + (30/183)(.0979/2)] = [(61/183)(9.75/2)](.9533342867) + (9.75/2)(8.9159733613) + 100(.5635631040).
(1) (P + .825820)[1 + .00802459] = 1.549168216 + 43.4653701362 + 56.35631040.
(2) (P + .825820)[1.00802459] = 101.3708487520.
(3) (P + .825820) = 101.3708487520 / 1.00802459.
(4) (P + .825820) = 100.563865.
(5) P = 100.563865 −. 825820.
(6) P = 99.738045.
III. Formulas for Conversion of Inflation-Indexed Security Yields to Equivalent Prices
Definitions
P = unadjusted or real price per 100 (dollars).
P
adj
= inflation adjusted price; P × Index Ratio
Date
.
A = unadjusted accrued interest per $100 original principal.
A
adj
= inflation adjusted accrued interest; A × Index Ratio
Date
.
SA = settlement amount including accrued interest in current dollars per $100 original principal; P
adj
+ A
adj
.
r = days from settlement date to next coupon date.
s = days in current semiannual period.
i = real yield, expressed in decimals (e.g., 0.0325).
C = real annual coupon, payable semiannually, in terms of real dollars paid on $100 initial, or real, principal of the security.
n = number of full semiannual periods from issue date to maturity date, except that, if the issue date is a coupon frequency date, n will be one less than the number of full semiannual periods remaining until maturity. Coupon frequency dates are the two semiannual dates based on the maturity date of each note or bond issue. For example, a security maturing on July 15, 2026 would have coupon frequency dates of January 15 and July 15.
v
n
= 1/(1 + i/2)
n
= present value of 1 due at the end of n periods.
a
n
⌉ = (1 − v
n
) / (i/2) = v + v
2
+ v
3
+
...
+ v
n
= present value of 1 per period for n periods.
Special Case: If i = 0, then an⌉ = n. Furthermore, when i = 0, an⌉ cannot be calculated using the formula: (1 − v 
n)/(i/2). In the special case where i = 0, an⌉ must be calculated as the summation of the individual present values (i.e., v + v 
2 + v 
3 + 
... + v 
n). Using the summation method will always confirm that an⌉ = n when i = 0.
n
⌉ = n. Furthermore, when i = 0, a
n
⌉ cannot be calculated using the formula: (1 − v
n
)/(i/2). In the special case where i = 0, a
n
⌉ must be calculated as the summation of the individual present values (
i.e.
, v + v
2
+ v
3
+
...
+ v
n
). Using the summation method will always confirm that a
n
⌉ = n when i = 0.
Date = valuation date.
D = the number of days in the month in which Date falls.
t = calendar day corresponding to Date.
CPI = Consumer Price Index number.
CPI
M
= CPI reported for the calendar month M by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Ref CPI
M
= reference CPI for the first day of the calendar month in which Date falls (also equal to the CPI for the third preceding calendar month), e.g., Ref CPI
April 1
is the CPI
January
.
Ref CPI
M + 1
= reference CPI for the first day of the calendar month immediately following Date.
Ref CPI
Date
= Ref CPI
M
− [(t − 1)/D][Ref CPI
M + 1
-Ref CPI
M
].
Index Ratio
Date
= Ref CPI
Date
/ Ref CPI
IssueDate
.
Note:
When the Issue Date is different from the Dated Date, the denominator is the Ref CPIDatedDate.
DatedDate
.
A. For inflation-protected securities with a regular first interest payment period:
For inflation-protected securities with a regular first interest payment period:
Formulas:
P
adj
= P × Index Ratio
Date
.
A = [(s−r)/s] × (C/2).
A
adj
= A × Index Ratio
Date
.
SA = P
adj
+ A
adj
Index Ratio
Date
= Ref CPI
Date
/Ref CPI
IssueDate
.
Example:
We issued a 10-year inflation-protected note on January 15, 1999. The note was issued at a discount to yield of 3.898% (real). The note bears a 3
7/8% real coupon, payable on July 15 and January 15 of each year. The base CPI index applicable to this note is 164. (We normally derive this number using the interpolative process described in appendix B, section I, paragraph B.)
7/8
% real coupon, payable on July 15 and January 15 of each year. The base CPI index applicable to this note is 164. (We normally derive this number using the interpolative process described in appendix B, section I, paragraph B.)
Definitions:
C = 3.875.
i = 0.03898.
n = 19 (There are 20 full semiannual periods but n is reduced by 1 because the issue date is a coupon frequency date.).
r = 181 (January 15, 1999 to July 15, 1999).
s = 181 (January 15, 1999 to July 15, 1999).
Ref CPI
Date
= 164.
Ref CPI
IssueDate
= 164.
Resolution:
Index Ratio
Date
= Ref CPI
Date
/ Ref CPI
IssueDate
= 164/164 = 1.
A = [(181 − 181)/181] × 3.875/2 = 0.
A
adj
= 0 × 1 = 0.
v
n
= 1/(1 + i/2)
n
= 1/(1 + .03898/2)
19
= 0.692984572.
a
n
⌉ = (1 − v
n
)/(i/2) = (1-0.692984572) / (.03898/2) = 15.752459107.
Formula:
P = 99.811030.
P
adj
= P × Index Ratio
Date
.
P
adj
= 99.811030 × 1 = 99.811030.
SA = P
adj
× A
adj
.
SA = 99.811030 + 0 = 99.811030.
Note:
For the real price (P), we have rounded to six places. These amounts are based on 100 par value.
B. (1) For inflation-protected securities reopened during a regular interest period where the purchase price includes predetermined accrued interest.
For inflation-protected securities reopened during a regular interest period where the purchase price includes predetermined accrued interest.
(2) For new inflation-protected securities accruing interest from the coupon frequency date immediately preceding the issue date, with the interest rate established in the auction being used to determine the accrued interest payable on the issue date.
For new inflation-protected securities accruing interest from the coupon frequency date immediately preceding the issue date, with the interest rate established in the auction being used to determine the accrued interest payable on the issue date.
Bidding: The dollar amount of each bid is in terms of the par amount. For example, if the Ref CPI applicable to the issue date of the note is 120, and the reference CPI applicable to the reopening issue date is 132, a bid of $10,000 will in effect be a bid of $10,000 × (132/120), or $11,000.
Bidding:
The dollar amount of each bid is in terms of the par amount. For example, if the Ref CPI applicable to the issue date of the note is 120, and the reference CPI applicable to the reopening issue date is 132, a bid of $10,000 will in effect be a bid of $10,000 × (132/120), or $11,000.
Formulas:
P
adj
= P × Index Ratio
Date
.
A = [(s−r)/s] × (C/2).
A
adj
= A × Index Ratio
Date
.
SA = P
adj
+ A
adj.
Index Ratio
Date
= Ref CPI
Date
/Ref CPI
IssueDate
.
Example:
We issued a 3
5/8% 10-year inflation-protected note on January 15, 1998, with interest payments on July 15 and January 15. For a reopening on October 15, 1998, with inflation compensation accruing from January 15, 1998 to October 15, 1998, and accrued interest accruing from July 15, 1998 to October 15, 1998 (92 days), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a real yield, as determined in the reopening auction, of 3.65%. The base index applicable to the issue date of this note is 161.55484 and the reference CPI applicable to October 15, 1998, is 163.29032.
5/8
% 10-year inflation-protected note on January 15, 1998, with interest payments on July 15 and January 15. For a reopening on October 15, 1998, with inflation compensation accruing from January 15, 1998 to October 15, 1998, and accrued interest accruing from July 15, 1998 to October 15, 1998 (92 days), solve for the price per 100 (P) at a real yield, as determined in the reopening auction, of 3.65%. The base index applicable to the issue date of this note is 161.55484 and the reference CPI applicable to October 15, 1998, is 163.29032.
Definitions:
C = 3.625.
i = 0.0365.
n = 18.
r = 92 (October 15, 1998 to January 15, 1999).
s = 184 (July 15, 1998 to January 15, 1999).
Ref CPI
Date
= 163.29032.
Ref CPI
IssueDate
= 161.55484.
Resolution:
Index Ratio
Date
= Ref CPI
Date
/Ref CPI
IssueDate
= 163.29032/161.55484 = 1.01074.
v
n
= 1/(1 + i/2)
n
= 1/(1 + .0365/2)
18
= 0.722138438.
a
n
⌉ = (1−v
n
)/(i/2) = (1 − 0.722138438)/(.0365/2) = 15.225291068.
Formula:
P = 100.703267 − 0.906250.
P = 99.797017.
P
adj
= P × Index Ratio
Date
.
P
adj
= 99.797017 × 1.01074 = 100.86883696.
P
adj
= 100.868837.
A = [(184−92)/184] × 3.625/2 = 0.906250.
A
adj
= A × Index Ratio
Date
.
A
adj
= 0.906250 × 1.01074 = 0.91598313.
A
adj
= 0.915983.
SA = P
adj
+ A
adj
= 100.868837 + 0.915983.
SA = 101.784820.
Note:
For the real price (P), and the inflation-adjusted price (Padj), we have rounded to six places. For accrued interest (A) and the adjusted accrued interest (Aadj), we have rounded to six places. These amounts are based on 100 par value.
adj
), we have rounded to six places. For accrued interest (A) and the adjusted accrued interest (A
adj
), we have rounded to six places. These amounts are based on 100 par value.
IV. Formulas for Conversion of Floating Rate Note Discount Margins to Equivalent Prices
Definitions for Newly Issued Floating Rate Notes
P = the price per $100 par value.
T
0
= the issue date.
N = the total number of quarterly interest payments.
i
and
k
= indexes that identify the sequence of interest payment dates.
T
i
= the i
th
quarterly interest payment date.
T
i
− T
i-1
= the number of days between the interest payment date T
i
and the preceding interest payment date.
T
N
= the maturity date.
r = the index rate applicable to the issue date.
s = the spread.
m = the discount margin.
A. For newly issued floating rate notes issued at par:
Formula:
Example:
The purpose of this example is to demonstrate how a floating rate note price is derived at the time of original issuance. Additionally, this example depicts the association of the July 31, 2012 issue date and the two-business-day lockout period. For a new two-year floating rate note auctioned on July 25, 2012, and issued on July 31, 2012, with a maturity date of July 31, 2014, and an interest accrual rate on the issue date of 0.215022819% (index rate of 0.095022819% plus a spread of 0.120%), solve for the price per 100 (P). This interest accrual rate is used for each daily interest accrual over the life of the security for the purposes of this example. In a new issuance (not a reopening) of a floating rate note, the discount margin determined at auction will be equal to the spread.
Definitions:
T
0
= July 31, 2012.
N = 8.
T
N
= July 31, 2014.
r
= 0.095022819%.
s
= 0.120%.
m
= 0.120%.
As of the issue date the latest 13-week bill, auctioned at least two days prior, has the following information:
Table 1—13-Week Bill Auction Data
Auction date
Issue date
Maturity date
Auction
clearing price
Auction high rate
Index rate
7/23/2012
7/26/2012
10/25/2012
99.975986
0.095%
0.095022819%
The rationale for using a 13-week bill auction that has occurred at least two days prior to the issue date is due to the two-business-day lockout period. This lockout period applies only to the issue date and interest payment dates, thus any 13-week bill auction that occurs during the two-day lockout period is not used for calculations related to the issue date and interest payment dates. The following sample calendar depicts this relationship for the floating rate note issue date.
Computing the Projected Cash Flows
The following table presents the future interest payment dates and the number of days between them.
Table 2—Payment Dates
Dates
Days between dates
Issue Date:
T
0
= 7/31/2012
1st Interest Date:
T
1
= 10/31/2012
T
1
−
T
0
= 92
2nd Interest Date:
T
2
= 1/31/2013
T
2
−
T
1
= 92
3rd Interest Date:
T
3
= 4/30/2013
T
3
−
T
2
= 89
4th Interest Date:
T
4
= 7/31/2013
T
4
−
T
3
= 92
5th Interest Date:
T
5
= 10/31/2013
T
5
−
T
4
= 92
6th Interest Date:
T
6
= 1/31/2014
T
6
−
T
5
= 92
7th Interest Date:
T
7
= 4/30/2014
T
7
−
T
6
= 89
8th Interest & Maturity Dates:
T
8
= 7/31/2014
T
8
−
T
7
= 92
Let
a
i
= 100 × max(
r
+
s,
0)/360
and
A
i
=
a
i
× (
T
i
−
T
i
−1
) + 100 × 1
{i = 8}
a
i
represents the daily projected interest, for a $100 par value, that will accrue between the future interest payment dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2, . . . ,8.
a
i
's are computed using the spread
s
= 0.120% obtained at the auction, and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.095022819% applicable to the issue date (7/31/2012). For example:
a
1
= 100 × max(0.00095022819 + 0.00120,0)/360 = 0.000597286
A
i
represents the projected cash flow the floating rate note holder will receive, for a $100 par value, at the future interest payment date
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2, . . . ,8.
T
i
−
T
i
−1
is the number of days between the future interest payment dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
. To account for the payback of the par value, the variable 1
{i = 8}
takes the value 1 if the payment date is the maturity date, or 0 otherwise. For example:
A
i
= 92 × 0.000597286 = 0.054950312
and
A
8
= 92 × 0.000597286 + 100 = 100.054950312
Let
B
i
= 1 + (
r
+
m
) × (
T
i
−
T
i
− 1
)/360
B
i
represents the projected compound factor between the future dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2, . . . ,8. All B
i
's are computed using the discount margin
m
= 0.120% (equals the spread determined at the auction), and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.095022819% applicable to the issue date (7/31/2012). For example:
B
3
= 1 + (0.00095022819 + 0.00120) × 89/360 = 1.000531584.
The following table shows the projected daily accrued interest values for $100 par value (
a
i
's), cash flows at interest payment dates (
A
i
's), and the compound factors between payment dates (
B
i
's).
Table 3—Projected Cash Flows and Compound Factors
i
a
i
A
i
B
i
1
0.000597286
0.054950312
1.000549503
2
0.000597286
0.054950312
1.000549503
3
0.000597286
0.053158454
1.000531584
4
0.000597286
0.054950312
1.000549503
5
0.000597286
0.054950312
1.000549503
6
0.000597286
0.054950312
1.000549503
7
0.000597286
0.053158454
1.000531584
8
0.000597286
100.054950312
1.000549503
Computing the Price
The price is computed as follows:
B. For newly issued floating rate notes issued at a premium:
Formula:
Example:
The purpose of this example is to demonstrate how a floating rate note auction can result in a price at a premium given a negative discount margin and spread at auction. For a new two-year floating rate note auctioned on July 25, 2012, and issued on July 31, 2012, with a maturity date of July 31, 2014, solve for the price per 100 (P). In a new issue (not a reopening) of a floating rate note, the discount margin established at auction will be equal to the spread. In this example, the discount margin determined at auction is −0.150%, but the floating rate note is subject to a daily interest rate accrual minimum of 0.000%.
Definitions:
T
0
= July 31, 2012.
N = 8.
T
N
= July 31, 2014.
r
= 0.095022819%.
s
= −0.150%.
m
= −0.150%.
As of the issue date the latest 13-week bill, auctioned at least two days prior, has the following information:
Table 1—13-Week Bill Auction Data
Auction date
Issue date
Maturity date
Auction
clearing price
Auction high rate
Index rate
7/23/2012
7/26/2012
10/25/2012
99.975986
0.095%
0.095022819%
Computing the Projected Cash Flows
The following table presents the future interest payment dates and the number of days between them.
Table 2—Payment Dates
Dates
Days between dates
Issue Date:
T
0
= 7/31/2012
1st Interest Date:
T
1
= 10/31/2012
T
1
−
T
0
= 92
2nd Interest Date:
T
2
= 1/31/2013
T
2
−
T
1
= 92
3rd Interest Date:
T
3
= 4/30/2013
T
3
−
T
2
= 89
4th Interest Date:
T
4
= 7/31/2013
T
4
−
T
3
= 92
5th Interest Date:
T
5
= 10/31/2013
T
5
−
T
4
= 92
6th Interest Date:
T
6
= 1/31/2014
T
6
−
T
5
= 92
7th Interest Date:
T
7
= 4/30/2014
T
7
−
T
6
= 89
8th Interest & Maturity Dates:
T
8
= 7/31/2014
T
8
−
T
7
= 92
Let
a
i
= 100 × max(
r
+
s,
0)/360
and
A
i
=
a
i
× (
T
i
−
T
i
− 1
) + 100 × 1
{i = 8}
a
i
Represents the daily projected interest, for a $100 par value, that will accrue between the future interest payment dates
T
i
− 1
and
T
i
where
i
= 1,2, . . . ,8.
a
i
's are computed using the spread
s
= − 0.150%, and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.095022819% applicable to the issue date (7/31/2012). For example:
a
i
= 100 × max(0.00095022819−0.00150,0)/360 = 100 × 0/360 = 0.000000000
Ai represents the projected cash flow the floating rate note holder will receive, for a $100 par value, at the future interest payment date Ti, where i = 1,2, . . ., 8. Ti − Ti−1 is the number of days between the future interest payment dates Ti−1 and Ti. To account for the payback of the par value, the variable 1{i=8} takes the value 1 if the payment date is the maturity date, or 0 otherwise. For example:
A
i
represents the projected cash flow the floating rate note holder will receive, for a $100 par value, at the future interest payment date
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2, . . ., 8.
T
i
−
T
i
−1
is the number of days between the future interest payment dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
. To account for the payback of the par value, the variable 1
{
i
=
8}
takes the value 1 if the payment date is the maturity date, or 0 otherwise. For example:
A
1
= 92 × 0.000000000 = 0.000000000
and
A
8
= 92 × 0.000000000 + 100 = 100.000000000
Let
B
i
= 1 + (
r
+
m
) × (
T
i
-
T
i
−1
)/360
Bi represents the projected compound factor between the future dates Ti−1 and Ti, where i = 1,2, . . ., 8. All Bi's are computed using the discount margin m = −0.150% (equals the spread obtained at the auction), and the fixed index rate of r = 0.095022819% applicable to the issue date (7/31/2012). For example:
B
i
represents the projected compound factor between the future dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2, . . ., 8. All
B
i
's are computed using the discount margin
m
= −0.150% (equals the spread obtained at the auction), and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.095022819% applicable to the issue date (7/31/2012). For example:
B
3
= 1 + (0.00095022819−0.00150) × 89/360 = 0.999864084.
The following table shows the projected daily accrued interests for $100 par value (ai's), cash flows at interest payment dates (Ai's), and the compound factors between payment dates (Bi's).
a
i
's), cash flows at interest payment dates (
A
i
's), and the compound factors between payment dates (
B
i
's).
Table 3—Projected Cash Flows and Compound Factors
i
a
i
A
i
B
i
1
0.000000000
0.000000000
0.999859503
2
0.000000000
0.000000000
0.999859503
3
0.000000000
0.000000000
0.999864084
4
0.000000000
0.000000000
0.999859503
5
0.000000000
0.000000000
0.999859503
6
0.000000000
0.000000000
0.999859503
7
0.000000000
0.000000000
0.999864084
8
0.000000000
100.000000000
0.999859503
Computing the Price
The price is computed as follows:
Definitions for Reopenings of Floating Rate Notes and Calculation of Interest Payments
IP
i
= the quarterly interest payment at date T
i
.
P
D
= the price that includes the accrued interest per $100 par value as of the reopening issue date.
AI
= accrued interest per $100 par value as of the reopening issue date.
P
C
= the price without accrued interest per $100 par value as of the reopening issue date.
T
−1
= the dated date if the reopening occurs before the first interest payment date, or, otherwise, the latest interest payment date prior to the reopening issue date.
T
0
= the reopening issue date.
N = the total number of remaining quarterly interest payments as of the reopening issue date.
i
and
k
= indexes that identify the sequence of interest payment dates relative to the issue date. For example T
1
, T
2
, and T
3
represent the first, second, and the third interest payment dates after the issue date respectively, while T
−1
represents the preceding interest payment date before the issue date.
j
= an index that identifies days between consecutive interest payment dates.
T
i
= the i
th
remaining quarterly interest payment date.
T
i
− T
i−1
= the number of days between the interest payment date T
i
and the preceding interest payment date.
T
N
= the maturity date.
r
j
's = the effective index rates for days between the last interest payment date and the reopening issue date.
r
= the index rate applicable to the reopening issue date.
s
= the spread.
m
= the discount margin.
C. Pricing and accrued interest for reopened floating rate notes
Formula:
Example:
The purpose of this example is to determine the floating rate note prices with and without accrued interest at the time of the reopening auction. For a two-year floating rate note that was originally auctioned on July 25, 2012, with an issue date of July 31, 2012, reopened in an auction on August 30, 2012 and issued on August 31, 2012, with a maturity date of July 31, 2014, solve for accrued interest per 100 (AI), the price with accrued interest per 100 (PD) and the price without accrued interest per 100 (PC). Since this is a reopening of an original issue from the prior month, Table 2 as shown in the example is used for accrued interest calculations. In the case of floating rate note reopenings, the spread on the security remains equal to the spread that was established at the original auction of the floating rate notes.
D
) and the price without accrued interest per 100 (P
C
). Since this is a reopening of an original issue from the prior month, Table 2 as shown in the example is used for accrued interest calculations. In the case of floating rate note reopenings, the spread on the security remains equal to the spread that was established at the original auction of the floating rate notes.
Definitions:
T
−1
= July 31, 2012.
T
0
= August 31, 2012.
N = 8.
T
N
= July 31, 2014.
r
= 0.105027876%.
s
= 0.120%.
m
= 0.100%.
The following table shows the past results for the 13-week bill auction.
Table 1—13-Week Bill Auction Data
Auction date
Issue date
Maturity date
Auction
clearing
price
Auction
high rate
(percent)
Index rate
(percent)
7/23/2012
7/26/2012
10/25/2012
99.975986
0.095
0.095022819
7/30/2012
8/2/2012
11/1/2012
99.972194
0.110
0.110030595
8/6/2012
8/9/2012
11/8/2012
99.974722
0.100
0.100025284
8/13/2012
8/16/2012
11/15/2012
99.972194
0.110
0.110030595
8/20/2012
8/23/2012
11/23/2012
99.973167
0.105
0.105028183
8/27/2012
8/30/2012
11/29/2012
99.973458
0.105
0.105027876
The following table shows the index rates applicable for the accrued interest.
Table 2—Applicable Index Rate
Accrual starts
Accrual ends
Number of days in accrual period
Applicable floating rate
Auction date
Index rate
(percent)
7/31/2012
7/31/2012
1
7/23/2012
0.095022819
8/1/2012
8/6/2012
6
7/30/2012
0.110030595
8/7/2012
8/13/2012
7
8/6/2012
0.100025284
8/14/2012
8/20/2012
7
8/13/2012
0.110030595
8/21/2012
8/27/2012
7
8/20/2012
0.105028183
8/28/2012
8/30/2012
3
8/27/2012
0.105027876
Computing the Accrued Interest
The accrued interest as of the new issue date (8/31/2012) for a $100 par value is:
AI
= 1 × 100 × max (0.00095022819 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 6 × 100 × max (0.00110030595 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 7 × 100 × max (0.00100025284 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 7 × 100 × max (0.00110030595 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 7 × 100 × max (0.00105028183 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 3 × 100 × max (0.00105027876 + 0.00120,0)/360
AI
= 1 × 0.000597286
+ 6 × 0.000638974
+ 7 × 0.000611181
+ 7 × 0.000638974
+ 7 × 0.000625078
+ 3 × 0.000625077
AI
= 0.000597286 + 0.003833844 + 0.004278267 + 0.004472818 + 0.004375546 + 0.001875231
AI
= 0.019432992 = $0.019433
Computing the Projected Cash Flows
The following table presents the future interest payment dates and the number of days between them.
Table 3—Payment Dates
Dates
Days between dates
Original Issue Date:
T
−1
= 7/31/2012
New Issue Date:
T
0
= 8/31/2012
T
0
−
T
−1
= 31
1st Interest Date:
T
1
= 10/31/2012
T
1
−
T
0
= 61
2nd Interest Date:
T
2
= 1/31/2013
T
2
−
T
1
= 92
3rd Interest Date:
T
3
= 4/30/2013
T
3
−
T
2
= 89
4th Interest Date:
T
4
= 7/31/2013
T
4
−
T
3
= 92
5th Interest Date:
T
5
= 10/31/2013
T
5
−
T
4
= 92
6th Interest Date:
T
6
= 1/31/2014
T
6
−
T
5
= 92
7th Interest Date:
T
7
= 4/30/2014
T
7
−
T
6
= 89
8th Interest & Maturity Dates:
T
8
= 7/31/2014
T
8
−
T
7
= 92
Let
a
i
= 100 × max(
r
+
s
, 0)/360
and
A
i
=
a
i
× (
T
i
−
T
i
−1
) + 100 × 1
{
i
= 8}
ai represents the daily projected interest, for a $100 par value, that will accrue between the future interest payment dates Ti−1 and Ti, where i = 1,2,...,8. ai's are computed using the spread s = 0.120% obtained at the original auction, and the fixed index rate of r = 0.105027876% applicable to the new issue date (8/31/2012). For example:
a
i
represents the daily projected interest, for a $100 par value, that will accrue between the future interest payment dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2,...,8.
a
i
's are computed using the spread
s
= 0.120% obtained at the original auction, and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.105027876% applicable to the new issue date (8/31/2012). For example:
a
i
= 100 × max(0.00105027876 + 0.00120,0)/360 = 0.000625077
Ai represents the projected cash flow the floating rate note holder will receive, less accrued interest, for a $100 par value, at the future interest payment date Ti, where i = 1,2,...,8. Ti − Ti-1 is the number of days between the future interest payment dates Ti−1 and Ti. To account for the payback of the par value, the variable 1{i = 8} takes the value 1 if the payment date is the maturity date, or 0 otherwise. For example:
A
i
represents the projected cash flow the floating rate note holder will receive, less accrued interest, for a $100 par value, at the future interest payment date
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2,...,8.
T
i
−
T
i
-
1
is the number of days between the future interest payment dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
. To account for the payback of the par value, the variable 1
{
i
= 8}
takes the value 1 if the payment date is the maturity date, or 0 otherwise. For example:
A
1
= 61 × 0.000625077 = 0.038129697
and
A
8
= 92 × 0.000625077 + 100 = 100.057507084
Let
B
i
= 1 + (
r
+
m
) × (
T
i
−
T
i
-1
)/360
Bi represents the projected compound factor between the future dates Ti−1 and Ti, where i = 1,2,...,8. All Bi's are computed using the discount margin m = 0.100% obtained at the reopening auction, and the fixed index rate of r = 0.105027876% applicable to the new issue date (8/31/2012). For example:
B
i
represents the projected compound factor between the future dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2,...,8. All
B
i
's are computed using the discount margin
m
= 0.100% obtained at the reopening auction, and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.105027876% applicable to the new issue date (8/31/2012). For example:
B
3
= 1 + (0.00105027876 + 0.00100) × 89/360 = 1.000506874
The following table shows the projected daily accrued interests for $100 par value (ai's), cash flows at interest payment dates (Ai's), and the compound factors between payment dates (Bi's).
a
i
's), cash flows at interest payment dates (
A
i
's), and the compound factors between payment dates (
B
i
's).
Table 4—Projected Cash Flows and Compound Factors
i
a
i
A
i
B
i
1
0.000625077
0.038129697
1.000347408
2
0.000625077
0.057507084
1.000523960
3
0.000625077
0.055631853
1.000506874
4
0.000625077
0.057507084
1.000523960
5
0.000625077
0.057507084
1.000523960
6
0.000625077
0.057507084
1.000523960
7
0.000625077
0.055631853
1.000506874
8
0.000625077
100.057507084
1.000523960
Computing the Price
The price with accrued interest is computed as follows:
D. For calculating interest payments:
Example:
For a new issue of a two-year floating rate note auctioned on July 25, 2012, and issued on July 31, 2012, with a maturity date of July 31, 2014, and a first interest payment date of October 31, 2012, calculate the quarterly interest payments (IPi) per 100. In a new issuance (not a reopening) of a new floating rate note, the discount margin determined at auction will be equal to the spread. The interest accrual rate used for this floating rate note on the issue date is 0.215022819% (index rate of 0.095022819% plus a spread of 0.120%) and this rate is used for each daily interest accrual over the life of the security for the purposes of this example.
i
) per 100. In a new issuance (not a reopening) of a new floating rate note, the discount margin determined at auction will be equal to the spread. The interest accrual rate used for this floating rate note on the issue date is 0.215022819% (index rate of 0.095022819% plus a spread of 0.120%) and this rate is used for each daily interest accrual over the life of the security for the purposes of this example.
Example 1:
Projected interest payment as of the original issue date.
T
0
= July 31, 2012.
N = 8.
T
N
= July 31, 2014.
r = 0.095022819%.
s = 0.120%.
m = 0.120%.
As of the issue date the latest 13-week bill, auctioned at least two days prior, has the following information:
Table 1—13-Week Bill Auction Data
Auction date
Issue date
Maturity date
Auction
clearing price
Auction high rate
Index rate
7/23/2012
7/26/2012
10/25/2012
99.975986
0.095%
0.095022819%
Computing the Projected Cash Flows
The following table presents the future interest payment dates and the number of days between them.
Table 2—Payment Dates
Dates
Days between dates
Issue Date:
T
0
= 7/31/2012
1st Interest Date:
T
1
= 10/31/2012
T
1
−
T
0
= 92
2nd Interest Date:
T
2
= 1/31/2013
T
2
−
T
1
= 92
3rd Interest Date:
T
3
= 4/30/2013
T
3
−
T
2
= 89
4th Interest Date:
T
4
= 7/31/2013
T
4
−
T
3
= 92
5th Interest Date:
T
5
= 10/31/2013
T
5
−
T
4
= 92
6th Interest Date:
T
6
= 1/31/2014
T
6
−
T
5
= 92
7th Interest Date:
T
7
= 4/30/2014
T
7
−
T
6
= 89
8th Interest & Maturity Dates:
T
8
= 7/31/2014
T
8
−
T
7
= 92
Using the spread s = 0.120%, and the fixed index rate of r = 0.095022819% applicable to the issue date (7/31/2012), the first and seventh projected interest payments are computed as follows:
s
= 0.120%, and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.095022819% applicable to the issue date (7/31/2012), the first and seventh projected interest payments are computed as follows:
IP
1
= 92 × [100 × max(0.00095022819 + 0.00120,0)/360]
IP
1
= 92 × 0.000597286 = 0.054950312
IP
7
= 89 × [100 × max(0.00095022819 + 0.00120,0)/360]
IP
7
= 89 × 0.000597286 = 0.053158454
The following table shows all projected interest payments as of the issue date.
Table 3—Projected Interest Payments
i
Dates
IP
i
1
10/31/2012
0.054950312
2
1/31/2013
0.054950312
3
4/30/2013
0.053158454
4
7/31/2013
0.054950312
5
10/31/2013
0.054950312
6
1/31/2014
0.054950312
7
4/30/2014
0.053158454
8
7/31/2014
0.054950312
Example 2:
Projected interest payment as of the reopening issue date (intermediate values, including rates in percentage terms, are rounded to nine decimal places).
This example demonstrates the calculations required to determine the interest payment due when the reopened floating rate note is issued. This example also demonstrates the need to calculate accrued interest at the time of a floating rate reopening auction. Since this is a reopening of an original issue from 31 days prior, Table 5 as shown in the example is used for accrued interest calculations. For a two-year floating rate note originally auctioned on July 25, 2012 with an original issue date of July 31, 2012, reopened by an auction on August 30, 2012 and issued on August 31, 2012, with a maturity date of July 31, 2014, calculate the quarterly interest payments (IPI) per 100. T−1 is the dated date if the reopening occurs before the first interest payment date, or otherwise the latest interest payment date prior to the new issue date.
I
) per 100. T
−1
is the dated date if the reopening occurs before the first interest payment date, or otherwise the latest interest payment date prior to the new issue date.
T
−1
= July 31, 2012.
T
0
= August 31, 2012.
N = 8.
T
N
= July 31, 2014.
r = 0.105027876%.
s = 0.120%.
m = 0.100%.
The following table shows the past results for the 13-week bill auction.
Table 4—13-Week Bill Auction Data
Auction date
Issue date
Maturity date
Auction
clearing price
Auction
high rate
(percent)
Index rate
(percent)
7/23/2012
7/26/2012
10/25/2012
99.975986
0.095
0.095022819
7/30/2012
8/2/2012
11/1/2012
99.972194
0.110
0.110030595
8/6/2012
8/9/2012
11/8/2012
99.974722
0.100
0.100025284
8/13/2012
8/16/2012
11/15/2012
99.972194
0.110
0.110030595
8/20/2012
8/23/2012
11/23/2012
99.973167
0.105
0.105028183
8/27/2012
8/30/2012
11/29/2012
99.973458
0.105
0.105027876
The following table shows the index rates applicable for the accrued interest.
Table 5—Applicable Index Rate
Accrual starts
Accrual ends
Number of days in
accrual period
Applicable floating rate
Auction date
Index rate
(percent)
7/31/2012
7/31/2012
1
7/23/2012
0.095022819
8/1/2012
8/6/2012
6
7/30/2012
0.110030595
8/7/2012
8/13/2012
7
8/6/2012
0.100025284
8/14/2012
8/20/2012
7
8/13/2012
0.110030595
8/21/2012
8/27/2012
7
8/20/2012
0.105028183
8/28/2012
8/30/2012
3
8/27/2012
0.105027876
Computing the accrued interest
The accrued interest as of 8/31/2012 for a $100 par value is:
AI
= 1 × 100 × max (0.00095022819 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 6 × 100 × max (0.00110030595 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 7 × 100 × max (0.00100025284 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 7 × 100 × max (0.00110030595 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 7 × 100 × max (0.00105028183 + 0.00120,0)/360
+ 3 × 100 × max (0.00105027876 + 0.00120,0)/360
AI
= 1 × 0.000597286
+ 6 × 0.000638974
+ 7 × 0.000611181
+ 7 × 0.000638974
+ 7 × 0.000625078
+ 3 × 0.000625077
AI
= 0.000597286 + 0.003833844 + 0.004278267 + 0.004472818 + 0.004375546 + 0.001875231
AI
= 0.019432992 = $0.019433
The following table presents the future interest payment dates and the number of days between them.
Table 6—Payment Dates
Dates
Days between dates
Original Issue Date:
T
−
1
= 7/31/2012
New Issue Date:
T
0
= 8/31/2012
T
0
−
T
−1
= 31
1st Interest Date:
T
1
= 10/31/2012
T
1
−
T
0
= 61
2nd Interest Date:
T
2
= 1/31/2013
T
2
−
T
1
= 92
3rd Interest Date:
T
3
= 4/30/2013
T
3
−
T
2
= 89
4th Interest Date:
T
4
= 7/31/2013
T
4
−
T
3
= 92
5th Interest Date:
T
5
= 10/31/2013
T
5
−
T
4
= 92
6th Interest Date:
T
6
= 1/31/2014
T
6
−
T
5
= 92
7th Interest Date:
T
7
= 4/30/2014
T
7
−
T
6
= 89
8th Interest & Maturity Dates:
T
8
= 7/31/2014
T
8
−
T
7
= 92
Using the original spread s = 0.120% (obtained on 7/25/2012), and the fixed index rate of r = 0.105027876% applicable to the new issue date (8/31/2012), the first and eighth projected interest payments are computed as follows:
s
= 0.120% (obtained on 7/25/2012), and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.105027876% applicable to the new issue date (8/31/2012), the first and eighth projected interest payments are computed as follows:
IP
1
= 0.019432992 + 61 × [100 × max (0.00105027876 + 0.00120,0)/360]
IP
1
= 0.019432992 + 61 × 0.000625077
IP
1
= 0.019432992 + 0.038129697 = 0.057562689
and
IP
8
= 92 × [100 × max (0.00105027876 + 0.00120,0)/360]
IP
8
= 92 × 0.000625077 = 0.057507084
The following table shows all projected interest payments as of the new issue date.
Table 7—Projected Interest Payments
i
Dates
IP
i
1
10/31/2012
0.057562689
2
1/31/2013
0.057507084
3
4/30/2013
0.055631853
4
7/31/2013
0.057507084
5
10/31/2013
0.057507084
6
1/31/2014
0.057507084
7
4/30/2014
0.055631853
8
7/31/2014
0.057507084
Definitions for Newly Issued Floating Rate Notes with an Issue Date that Occurs after the Dated Date
P
D
= the price that includes accrued interest from the dated date to the issue date per $100 par value as of the issue date.
AI
= the accrued interest per $100 par value as of the issue date.
P
C
= the price without accrued interest per $100 par value as of the issue date.
T
−1
= the dated date.
T
0
= the issue date.
N
= the total number of remaining quarterly interest payments as of the new issue date.
i
and
k
= indexes that identify the sequence of interest payment dates.
j
= an index that identifies days between the dated date and the issue date.
T
i
= the
i
th
quarterly future interest payment date.
T
i
−
T
i−1
= the number of days between the interest payment date
T
i
and the preceding interest payment date.
T
N
= the maturity date.
r
j
's = the effective index rates for days between the dated date and the issue date.
r
= the index rate applicable to the issue date.
s
= the spread.
m
= the discount margin.
E. Pricing and accrued interest for new issue floating rate notes with an issue date that occurs after the dated date
Formula:
Example:
The purpose of this example is to demonstrate how a floating rate note can have a price without accrued interest of less than $100 par value when the issue date occurs after the dated date. An original issue two-year floating rate note is auctioned on December 29, 2011, with a dated date of December 31, 2011, an issue date of January 3, 2012, and a maturity date of December 31, 2013.
Definitions:
Dated date = 12/31/2011.
Issue date = 1/3/2012.
Maturity date = 12/31/2013.
Spread = 1.000% at auction.
Discount margin = 1.000%.
As of the issue date the latest 13-week bill, auctioned at least two days prior, has the following information:
Table 1—13-WEEK BILL AUCTION DATA
Auction date
Issue date
Maturity date
Auction
clearing price
Auction high rate
Index rate
12/27/2011
12/29/2011
3/29/2012
99.993681
0.025%
0.025001580%
The following table shows the index rates applicable for the accrued interest.
Table 2—Applicable Index Rate
Accrual starts
Accrual ends
Number of days in
accrual period
Applicable floating rate
Auction date
Index rate
12/31/2011
1/2/2012
3
12/27/2011
0.025001580%
Computing the accrued interest
The accrued interest as of the new issue date (1/3/2012) for a $100 par value is:
AI
= 3 × 100 × max (0.00025001580 + 0.01000,0)/360
AI
= 3 × 0.002847227
AI
= 0.008541681 = $0.008542
Computing the Projected Cash Flows
The following table presents the future interest payment dates and the number of days between them.
Table 3—Payment Dates
Dates
Days between dates
Dated Date: =
T
−1
= 12/31/2011
Issue Date:
T
0
= 1/3/2012
T
0
−
T
−1
= 3
1st Interest Date:
T
1
= 3/31/2012
T
1
−
T
0
= 88
2nd Interest Date:
T
2
= 6/30/2012
T
2
−
T
1
= 91
3rd Interest Date:
T
3
= 9/30/2012
T
3
−
T
2
= 92
4th Interest Date:
T
4
= 12/31/2012
T
4
−
T
3
= 92
5th Interest Date:
T
5
= 3/31/2013
T
5
−
T
4
= 90
6th Interest Date:
T
6
= 6/30/2013
T
6
−
T
5
= 91
7th Interest Date:
T
7
= 9/30/2013
T
7
−
T
6
= 92
8th Interest & Maturity Dates:
T
8
= 12/31/2013
T
8
−
T
7
= 92
Let
a
i
= 100 × max(
r
+
s
, 0)/360
and
A
i
=
a
i
× (
T
i
−
T
i
−1
) + 100 × 1
{
i
= 8}
ai represents the daily projected interest, for a $100 par value, that will accrue between the future interest payment dates Ti−1 and Ti, where i = 1,2,...,8. ai's are computed using the spread s = 1.000% obtained at the auction, and the fixed index rate of r = 0.025001580% applicable to the issue date (1/3/2012). For example:
a
i
represents the daily projected interest, for a $100 par value, that will accrue between the future interest payment dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2,...,8.
a
i
's are computed using the spread
s
= 1.000% obtained at the auction, and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.025001580% applicable to the issue date (1/3/2012). For example:
a
1
= 100 × max(0.00025001580 + 0.01000,0)/360 = 0.002847227
Ai represents the projected cash flow the floating rate note holder will receive, less accrued interest, for a $100 par value, at the future interest payment date Ti, where i = 1,2,...,8. Ti − Ti−1 is the number of days between the future interest payment dates Ti-1 and Ti. To account for the payback of the par value, the variable 1{i = 8} takes the value 1 if the payment date is the maturity date, or 0 otherwise. For example:
A
i
represents the projected cash flow the floating rate note holder will receive, less accrued interest, for a $100 par value, at the future interest payment date
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2,...,8.
T
i
−
T
i
−1
is the number of days between the future interest payment dates
T
i
-1
and
T
i
. To account for the payback of the par value, the variable 1
{
i
= 8}
takes the value 1 if the payment date is the maturity date, or 0 otherwise. For example:
A
1
= 88 × 0.002847227 = 0.250555976
and
A
8
= 92 × 0.002847227 + 100 = 100.261944884
Let
B
i
= 1 + (
r
+
m
) × (T
i
−
T
i
−1
)/360
Bi represents the projected compound factor between the future dates Ti−1 and Ti, where i = 1,2,...,8. All Bi's are computed using the discount margin m = 1.000% (equals the spread obtained at the auction), and the fixed index rate of r = 0.025001580% applicable to the issue date (1/3/2012). For example:
B
i
represents the projected compound factor between the future dates
T
i
−1
and
T
i
, where
i
= 1,2,...,8. All
B
i
's are computed using the discount margin
m
= 1.000% (equals the spread obtained at the auction), and the fixed index rate of
r
= 0.025001580% applicable to the issue date (1/3/2012). For example:
B
3
= 1 + (0.00025001580 + 0.01000) × 92/360 = 1.002619448
The following table shows the projected daily accrued interests for $100 par value (ai 's), cash flows at interest payment dates (Ai 's), and the compound factors between payment dates (Bi's).
a
i
's), cash flows at interest payment dates (
A
i
's), and the compound factors between payment dates (
B
i
's).
Table 4—Projected Cash Flows and Compound Factors
i
a
i
A
i
B
i
1
0.002847227
0.250555976
1.002505559
2
0.002847227
0.259097657
1.002590976
3
0.002847227
0.261944884
1.002619448
4
0.002847227
0.261944884
1.002619448
5
0.002847227
0.256250430
1.002562504
6
0.002847227
0.259097657
1.002590976
7
0.002847227
0.261944884
1.002619448
8
0.002847227
100.261944884
1.002619448
Computing the price
The price with accrued interest is computed as follows:
V. Computation of Adjusted Values and Payment Amounts for Stripped Inflation-Protected Interest Components
Note:
Valuing an interest component stripped from an inflation-protected security at its adjusted value enables this interest component to be interchangeable (fungible) with other interest components that have the same maturity date, regardless of the underlying inflation-protected security from which the interest components were stripped. The adjusted value provides for fungibility of these various interest components when buying, selling, or transferring them or when reconstituting an inflation-protected security.
Definitions:
c = C/100 = the regular annual interest rate, payable semiannually, e.g., .03625 (the decimal equivalent of a 3
5/8
% interest rate)
Par = par amount of the security to be stripped
Ref CPI
IssueDate
= reference CPI for the original issue date (or dated date, when the dated date is different from the original issue date) of the underlying (unstripped) security
Ref CPI
Date
= reference CPI for the maturity date of the interest component
AV = adjusted value of the interest component
PA = payment amount at maturity by Treasury
Formulas:
AV = Par(C/2)(100/Ref CPI
IssueDate
) (rounded to 2 decimals with no intermediate rounding)
PA = AV(Ref CPI
Date
/100) (rounded to 2 decimals with no intermediate rounding)
Example:
A 10-year inflation-protected note paying 3
7/8
% interest was issued on January 15, 1999, with the second interest payment on January 15, 2000. The Ref CPI of January 15, 1999 (Ref CPI
IssueDate
) was 164.00000, and the Ref CPI on January 15, 2000 (Ref CPI
Date
) was 168.24516. Calculate the adjusted value and the payment amount at maturity of the interest component.
Definitions:
c = .03875
Par = $1,000,000
Ref CPI
IssueDate
= 164.00000
Ref CPI
Date
= 168.24516
Resolution:
For a par amount of $1 million, the adjusted value of each stripped interest component was $1,000,000(.03875/2)(100/164.00000), or $11,814.02 (no intermediate rounding).
For an interest component that matured on January 15, 2000, the payment amount was $11,814.02 (168.24516/100), or $19,876.52 (no intermediate rounding).
VI. Computation of Purchase Price, Discount Rate, and Investment Rate (Coupon-Equivalent Yield) for Treasury Bills
A. Conversion of the discount rate to a purchase price for Treasury bills of all maturities:
Conversion of the discount rate to a purchase price for Treasury bills of all maturities:
Formula:
P = 100 (1 − dr / 360).
Where:
d = discount rate, in decimals.
r = number of days remaining to maturity.
P = price per 100 (dollars).
Example:
For a bill issued November 24, 1989, due February 22, 1990, at a discount rate of 7.610%, solve for price per 100 (P).
Definitions:
d = .07610.
r = 90 (November 24, 1989 to February 22, 1990).
Resolution:
P = 100 (1 − dr / 360).
(1) P = 100 [1 − (.07610)(90) / 360].
(2) P = 100 (1 − .019025).
(3) P = 100 (.980975).
(4) P = 98.097500.
Note:
Purchase prices per $100 are rounded to six decimal places, using normal rounding procedures.
B. Computation of purchase prices and discount amounts based on price per $100, for Treasury bills of all maturities:
Computation of purchase prices and discount amounts based on price per $100, for Treasury bills of all maturities:
1. To determine the purchase price of any bill, divide the par amount by 100 and multiply the resulting quotient by the price per $100.
Example:
To compute the purchase price of a $10,000 13-week bill sold at a price of $98.098000 per $100, divide the par amount ($10,000) by 100 to obtain the multiple (100). That multiple times 98.098000 results in a purchase price of $9,809.80.
2. To determine the discount amount for any bill, subtract the purchase price from the par amount of the bill.
Example:
For a $10,000 bill with a purchase price of $9,809.80, the discount amount would be $190.20, or $10,000 − $9,809.80.
C. Conversion of prices to discount rates for Treasury bills of all maturities:
Conversion of prices to discount rates for Treasury bills of all maturities:
Formula:
Where:
P = price per 100 (dollars).
d = discount rate.
r = number of days remaining to maturity.
Example:
For a 26-week bill issued December 30, 1982, due June 30, 1983, with a price of $95.934567, solve for the discount rate (d).
Definitions:
P = 95.934567.
r = 182 (December 30, 1982, to June 30, 1983).
Resolution:
(2) d = [.04065433 × 1.978021978].
(3) d = .080415158.
(4) d = 8.042%.
Note:
Prior to April 18, 1983, we sold all bills in price-basis auctions, in which discount rates calculated from prices were rounded to three places, using normal rounding procedures. Since that time, we have sold bills only on a discount rate basis.
D. Calculation of investment rate (coupon-equivalent yield) for Treasury bills:
Calculation of investment rate (coupon-equivalent yield) for Treasury bills:
1. For bills of not more than one half-year to maturity:
For bills of not more than one half-year to maturity:
Formula:
Where:
i = investment rate, in decimals.
P = price per 100 (dollars).
r = number of days remaining to maturity.
y = number of days in year following the issue date; normally 365, but if the period from the issue date to the same date 1 year ahead contains February 29, then y is 366. (e.g., 2020 is a leap year. Suppose the issue date for a 26-week bill is February 28, 2019. The date 1 year ahead is February 28, 2020. That 1-year period from the issue date of the bill does not contain “February 29,” therefore y = 365. Now suppose the issue date of a 26-week bill is March 1, 2019. The date 1 year ahead is March 1, 2020. That 1-year period from the issue date of the bill contains “February 29,” therefore y = 366.)
Example:
For a cash management bill issued June 1, 1990, due June 21, 1990, with a price of $99.559444 (computed from a discount rate of 7.930%), solve for the investment rate (i).
Definitions:
P = 99.559444.
r = 20 (June 1, 1990, to June 21, 1990).
y = 365.
Resolution:
(2) i = [.004425 × 18.25].
(3) i = .080756.
(4) i = 8.076%.
2. For bills of more than one half-year to maturity:
Formula:
P [1 + (r − y/2)(i/y)] (1 + i/2) = 100.
This formula must be solved by using the quadratic equation, which is:
ax
2
+ bx + c = 0.
Therefore, rewriting the bill formula in the quadratic equation form gives:
and solving for “i” produces:
Where:
i = investment rate in decimals.
b = r/y.
a = (r/2y) − .25.
c = (P−100)/P.
P = price per 100 (dollars).
r = number of days remaining to maturity.
y = number of days in year following the issue date; normally 365, but if the period from the issue date to the same date 1 year ahead contains February 29, then y is 366. (e.g., 2020 is a leap year. Suppose the issue date for a 26-week bill is February 28, 2019. The date 1 year ahead is February 28, 2020. That 1-year period from the issue date of the bill does not contain “February 29,” therefore y = 365. Now suppose the issue date of a 26-week bill is March 1, 2019. The date 1 year ahead is March 1, 2020. That 1-year period from the issue date of the bill contains “February 29,” therefore y = 366.)
Example:
For a 52-week bill issued June 7, 1990, due June 6, 1991, with a price of $92.265000 (computed from a discount rate of 7.65%), solve for the investment rate (i).
Definitions:
r = 364 (June 7, 1990, to June 6, 1991).
y = 365.
P = 92.265000.
b = 364 / 365, or .997260274.
a = (364 / 730) − .25, or .248630137.
c = (92.265 − 100) / 92.265, or −.083834607.
Resolution:
(3) i = (−.997260274 + 1.038221216) / .497260274.
(4) i = .040960942 / .497260274.
(5) i = .082373244 or
(6) i = 8.237%.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 52967, Aug. 30, 2004; 69 FR 53622, Sept. 2, 2004; 73 FR 14939, Mar. 20, 2008; 78 FR 46428, 46430, July 31, 2013; 78 FR 50335, Aug. 19, 2013; 78 FR 52857, Aug. 27, 2013; 78 FR 59228-59230, Sept. 26, 2013; 81 FR 43070, July 1, 2016; 87 FR 40440, July 7, 2022]]

Appendix C to Part 356—Investment Considerations

I. Inflation-Protected Securities
A. Principal and Interest Variability
An investment in securities with principal or interest determined by reference to an inflation index involves factors not associated with an investment in a non-indexed security. Such factors include the possibility that:
• The inflation index may be subject to significant changes,
• changes in the index may or may not correlate to changes in interest rates generally or with changes in other indices,
• the resulting interest may be greater or less than that payable on other securities of similar maturities, and
• in the event of sustained deflation, the amount of the semiannual interest payments, the inflation-adjusted principal of the security, and the value of stripped components will decrease. However, if at maturity the inflation-adjusted principal is less than a security's par amount, we will pay an additional amount so that the additional amount plus the inflation-adjusted principal equals the par amount. Regardless of whether or not we pay such an additional amount, we will always base interest payments on the inflation-adjusted principal as of the interest payment date. If a security has been stripped, we will pay any such additional amount at maturity to holders of principal components only. (See § 356.30.)
B. Trading in the Secondary Market
The Treasury securities market is the largest and most liquid securities market in the world. The market for Treasury inflation-protected securities, however, may not be as active or liquid as the market for Treasury non-indexed securities. In addition, Treasury inflation-protected securities may not be as widely traded or as well understood as Treasury non-indexed securities. Lesser liquidity and fewer market participants may result in larger spreads between bid and asked prices for inflation-protected securities than the bid-asked spreads for non-indexed securities with the same time to maturity. Larger bid-asked spreads normally result in higher transaction costs and/or lower overall returns. The liquidity of an inflation-protected security may be enhanced over time as we issue additional amounts or more entities participate in the market.
C. Tax Considerations
Treasury inflation-protected securities and the stripped interest and principal components of these securities are subject to specific tax rules provided by Treasury regulations issued under sections 1275(d) and 1286 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
D. Indexing Issues
While the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) measures changes in prices for goods and services, movements in the CPI that have occurred in the past do not necessarily indicate changes that may occur in the future.
The calculation of the index ratio incorporates an approximate three-month lag, which may have an impact on the trading price of the securities, particularly during periods of significant, rapid changes in the index.
The CPI is reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a bureau within the Department of Labor. The Bureau of Labor Statistics operates independently of Treasury and, therefore, we have no control over the determination, calculation, or publication of the index. For a discussion of how we will apply the CPI in various situations, see appendix B, section I, paragraph B of this part. In addition, for a discussion of actions that we would take in the event the CPI is: discontinued; in the judgment of the Secretary, fundamentally altered in a manner materially adverse to the interests of an investor in the security; or, in the judgment of the Secretary, altered by legislation or Executive Order in a manner materially adverse to the interests of an investor in the security, see appendix B, section I, paragraph B.4 of this part.
II. Floating Rate Notes
A. Interest Variability
An investment in securities with interest determined by reference to a 13-week Treasury bill index involves risks not associated with an investment in a fixed interest rate security. Such risks include the possibility that:
• Changes in the index may or may not correlate to changes in interest rates generally or with changes in other indexes;
• any given interest payment may be more or less than the amount paid on prior interest payment dates;
• the resulting interest payments may be greater or less than those payable on other securities of similar maturities, and
• in the event of sustained falling interest rates, the amount of the quarterly interest payments will decrease.
B. Trading in the Secondary Market
The Treasury securities market is the largest and most liquid securities market in the world. The market for Treasury floating rate notes, however, may not be as active or liquid as the market for Treasury non-indexed securities or Treasury inflation-protected securities. In addition, Treasury floating rate notes may not be as widely traded or as well understood as these other types of Treasury marketable securities. Prices for floating rate notes may not fluctuate in reaction to interest rate movements in the same manner as other Treasury securities. Lesser liquidity and fewer market participants may result in larger spreads between bid and asked prices for Treasury floating rate notes than the bid-asked spreads for other Treasury marketable securities with the same time to maturity. Larger bid-asked spreads normally result in higher transaction costs and/or lower overall returns. The liquidity of a Treasury floating rate note may be enhanced over time as we issue additional amounts or more entities participate in the market.
C. Tax Considerations
Treasury floating rate notes are subject to specific tax rules provided by Treasury regulations issued under section 1275(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
D. Indexing Issues
The Bureau of the Fiscal Service publishes the High Rate immediately following a 13-week bill auction as part of the auction results. The 13-week bill is generally auctioned once per week. Treasury retains the flexibility to increase or decrease the frequency of 13-week bill auctions, which would affect the frequency of index rate resets. The High Rate is subject to various interest rate and market environments over which Treasury has no control. For a discussion of actions that Treasury would take in the event auctions of 13-week bills are discontinued or delayed, see appendix B, section I, paragraph C.4 of this part.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 46428, 46444, July 31, 2013]]

Appendix D to Part 356—Description of the Indexes

I. Consumer Price Index
The Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) for purposes of inflation-protected securities is the non-seasonally adjusted U.S. City Average All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers. It is published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), a bureau within the Department of Labor. The CPI is a measure of the average change in consumer prices over time in a fixed market basket of goods and services. This market basket includes food, clothing, shelter, fuels, transportation, charges for doctors' and dentists' services, and drugs.
In calculating the index, price changes for the various items are averaged together with weights that represent their importance in the spending of urban households in the United States. The BLS periodically updates the contents of the market basket of goods and services, and the weights assigned to the various items, to take into account changes in consumer expenditure patterns.
The CPI is expressed in relative terms in relation to a time base reference period for which the level is set at 100. For example, if the CPI for the 1982-84 reference period is 100.0, an increase of 16.5 percent from that period would be shown as 116.5. The CPI for a particular month is released and published during the following month. From time to time, the CPI is rebased to a more recent base reference period. We provide the base reference period for a particular inflation-protected security on the auction announcement for that security.
Further details about the CPI may be obtained by contacting the BLS.
II. Floating Rate Note Index
The floating rate note index is the 13-week Treasury bill auction High Rate (stop out rate), and converted to the simple-interest money market yield computed on an actual/360 basis.
[[69 FR 45202, July 28, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 46444, July 31, 2013]]

PART 357—REGULATIONS GOVERNING BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BONDS, NOTES AND BILLS HELD IN TREASURY/RESERVE AUTOMATED DEBT ENTRY SYSTEM (TRADES) AND LEGACY TREASURY DIRECT

[Authority:31 U.S.C. chapter 31; 5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. chapter 31; 5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391.
[Source:51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 357 appear at 70 FR 57431, Sept. 30, 2005.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 357.0   Book-entry systems.

(a) Treasury securities. Treasury securities are maintained in one of the following book-entry systems:
Treasury securities.
Treasury securities are maintained in one of the following book-entry systems:
(1) Commercial book-entry system. The commercial book-entry system is the book-entry system in which Treasury securities are held in a tiered system through securities intermediaries such as financial institutions or brokerage firms. A Treasury security is maintained in the commercial book-entry system if it is credited by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Participant's Securities Account. The regulations governing the commercial book-entry system are found at subpart B of this part, and are referred to as Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System (TRADES).
Commercial book-entry system.
The commercial book-entry system is the book-entry system in which Treasury securities are held in a tiered system through securities intermediaries such as financial institutions or brokerage firms. A Treasury security is maintained in the commercial book-entry system if it is credited by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Participant's Securities Account. The regulations governing the commercial book-entry system are found at subpart B of this part, and are referred to as Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System (TRADES).
(2) Legacy Treasury Direct ®. The Legacy Treasury Direct system is a non-Internet-based book-entry system maintained by Treasury for purchasing and holding marketable Treasury securities as book-entry products. A Treasury security is maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct if it is credited to a Legacy Treasury Direct account as described in § 357.20 of this part. Treasury securities are held directly by the Department of the Treasury in accounts maintained in the investor's name. A Legacy Treasury Direct account may be accessed through a designated Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. See subpart C of this part for rules pertaining to Legacy Treasury Direct.
Legacy Treasury Direct
®. The Legacy Treasury Direct system is a non-Internet-based book-entry system maintained by Treasury for purchasing and holding marketable Treasury securities as book-entry products. A Treasury security is maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct if it is credited to a Legacy Treasury Direct account as described in § 357.20 of this part. Treasury securities are held directly by the Department of the Treasury in accounts maintained in the investor's name. A Legacy Treasury Direct account may be accessed through a designated Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. See subpart C of this part for rules pertaining to Legacy Treasury Direct.
(3) TreasuryDirect ®. TreasuryDirect is a book-entry, online system maintained by the Department of the Treasury for purchasing and holding eligible marketable Treasury securities, United States Savings Bonds, and certificates of indebtedness in electronic form as a computer record on the books of Treasury. The regulations governing TreasuryDirect are found at 31 CFR part 363.
TreasuryDirect
®. TreasuryDirect is a book-entry, online system maintained by the Department of the Treasury for purchasing and holding eligible marketable Treasury securities, United States Savings Bonds, and certificates of indebtedness in electronic form as a computer record on the books of Treasury. The regulations governing TreasuryDirect are found at 31 CFR part 363.
(b) Transferability between Legacy Treasury Direct and other systems. A Treasury security maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct may be transferred to an account in TRADES or to an account in TreasuryDirect in accordance with § 357.22(a). Securities may not be transferred to Legacy Treasury Direct from other systems.
Transferability between Legacy Treasury Direct and other systems.
A Treasury security maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct may be transferred to an account in TRADES or to an account in TreasuryDirect in accordance with § 357.22(a). Securities may not be transferred to Legacy Treasury Direct from other systems.
[[67 FR 64278, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 57431, Sept. 30, 2005; 70 FR 57441, Sept. 30, 2005; 76 FR 18063, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 357.1   Effective date.

Subpart B of this part, the definitions of Adverse Claim, Book-entry Security, Entitlement Holder, Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular, Funds Account, Issue, Participant, Participant's Securities Account, Person, Revised Article 8, Securities Intermediary, Security Entitlement, State, and Transfer Message and revisions to the definitions of Security and TRADES, and §§ 357.42 and 357.44 and the revisions to § 357.41 are effective January 1, 1997. All other provisions in effect prior to January 1, 1997, remain in effect.
Adverse Claim, Book-entry Security, Entitlement Holder, Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular, Funds Account, Issue, Participant, Participant's Securities Account, Person, Revised Article 8, Securities Intermediary, Security Entitlement, State,
and
Transfer Message
and revisions to the definitions of
Security
and
TRADES,
and §§ 357.42 and 357.44 and the revisions to § 357.41 are effective January 1, 1997. All other provisions in effect prior to January 1, 1997, remain in effect.
[[61 FR 43628, Aug. 23, 1996]]

§ 357.2   Definitions.

In this part, unless the context indicates otherwise:
Adverse claim means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Security and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Security.
Adverse claim
means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Security and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Security.
Bill means an obligation of the United States, with a term of not more than one year, issued at a discount, under chapter 31 of title 31 of the United States Code, in book-entry form.
Bill
means an obligation of the United States, with a term of not more than one year, issued at a discount, under chapter 31 of title 31 of the United States Code, in book-entry form.
Bond means an obligation of the United States, with a term of more than ten years, issued under chapter 31 of title 31 of the United States Code, in book-entry form.
Bond
means an obligation of the United States, with a term of more than ten years, issued under chapter 31 of title 31 of the United States Code, in book-entry form.
Book-entry security means a Treasury security maintained as a computer record in the commercial book-entry system, Legacy Treasury Direct ®, or TreasuryDirect ®.
Book-entry security
means a Treasury security maintained as a computer record in the commercial book-entry system, Legacy Treasury Direct ®, or TreasuryDirect ®.
Business day means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or other day on which the Federal Reserve Banks are not open for business.
Business day
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or other day on which the Federal Reserve Banks are not open for business.
Department means the United States Department of the Treasury, and, where appropriate, the Federal Reserve Banks acting as fiscal agents of the United States.
Department
means the United States Department of the Treasury, and, where appropriate, the Federal Reserve Banks acting as fiscal agents of the United States.
Depository institution means an entity described in section 19(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi). Under section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, the term depository institution includes:
Depository institution
means an entity described in section 19(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi). Under section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, the term
depository institution
includes:
(1) Any insured bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;
(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;
(3) Any savings bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813 or any bank which is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;
(4) Any insured credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752 or any credit union which is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union under 12 U.S.C. 1781;
(5) Any member as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1422; and
(6) Any savings association (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813) which is an insured depository institution, as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811, et seq., or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under such Act.
et seq.,
or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under such Act.
Entitlement holder means a Person to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
Entitlement holder
means a Person to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
Federal Reserve Bank or Reserve Bank means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
Federal Reserve Bank
or
Reserve Bank
means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains Book-entry Securities accounts and transfers Book-entry Securities.
Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular
means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains Book-entry Securities accounts and transfers Book-entry Securities.
Financial institution means, for purposes of direct deposit, an institution which has agreed to receive credit payments under 31 CFR part 210, as amended from time to time, and has not withdrawn its participation in a direct deposit program under part 210, or an institution which is willing to agree to receive credit payments under 31 CFR part 210 and has enrolled with its Federal Reserve Bank.
Financial institution
means, for purposes of direct deposit, an institution which has agreed to receive credit payments under 31 CFR part 210, as amended from time to time, and has not withdrawn its participation in a direct deposit program under part 210, or an institution which is willing to agree to receive credit payments under 31 CFR part 210 and has enrolled with its Federal Reserve Bank.
Funds account means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, book-entry securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments.
Funds account
means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, book-entry securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments.
Incompetent means an individual who is legally, medically or mentally incapable of handling his or her business affairs, except that a minor is not an incompetent solely because of age.
Incompetent
means an individual who is legally, medically or mentally incapable of handling his or her business affairs, except that a minor is not an incompetent solely because of age.
Issue means a group of securities, as defined in this section, that is identified by the same CUSIP (Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Practices) number.
Issue
means a group of securities, as defined in this section, that is identified by the same CUSIP (Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Practices) number.
Legacy Treasury Direct is the Legacy Treasury Direct Book-Entry Securities System.
Legacy Treasury Direct
is the Legacy Treasury Direct Book-Entry Securities System.
Maturity value is the amount that the Department is obligated to pay when a security matures.
Maturity value
is the amount that the Department is obligated to pay when a security matures.
Minor means an individual who is under the age of majority, as determined by applicable state law.
Minor
means an individual who is under the age of majority, as determined by applicable state law.
Note means an obligation of the United States, with a term of at least one year, but of not more than ten years, issued under chapter 31 of title 31 of the United States Code, in book-entry form.
Note
means an obligation of the United States, with a term of at least one year, but of not more than ten years, issued under chapter 31 of title 31 of the United States Code, in book-entry form.
Original issue means Treasury's offering of a marketable Treasury security to the public and its issuance in book-entry form.
Original issue
means Treasury's offering of a marketable Treasury security to the public and its issuance in book-entry form.
Owner, as used in subpart C, means the individual(s) or entity in whose name a security is registered. If a security is registered in more than one name, the term owner incudes all those whose names appear on the registration and are authorized by this part to make a transaction request on a security held in Legacy Treasury Direct.
Owner,
as used in subpart C, means the individual(s) or entity in whose name a security is registered. If a security is registered in more than one name, the term
owner
incudes all those whose names appear on the registration and are authorized by this part to make a transaction request on a security held in Legacy Treasury Direct.
Participant means a Person that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
Participant
means a Person that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
Participant's Securities Account means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry Securities held for a Participant are or may be credited.
Participant's Securities Account
means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry Securities held for a Participant are or may be credited.
Person means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Person
means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Redemption means payment of a security at maturity, or pursuant to a call for redumption in accordance with the terms of a security.
Redemption
means payment of a security at maturity, or pursuant to a call for redumption in accordance with the terms of a security.
Representative includes an executor, administrator, legal guardian, committee, conservator, and any similar person or entity appointed by a court to represent the estate of a decedent, minor, or incompetent, as well as a trustee, whether appointed by a court or otherwise.
Representative
includes an executor, administrator, legal guardian, committee, conservator, and any similar person or entity appointed by a court to represent the estate of a decedent, minor, or incompetent, as well as a trustee, whether appointed by a court or otherwise.
Revised Article 8 means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9 and 10) 1994 Official Text. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference of Revised Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code in this part, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Revised Article 8 was adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners On Uniform State Laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February 14, 1995. Copies of Revised Article 8 are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 211 East Ontario Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 1428, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20220 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Revised Article 8
means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9 and 10) 1994 Official Text. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference of Revised Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code in this part, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Revised Article 8 was adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners On Uniform State Laws and approved by the American Bar Association on February 14, 1995. Copies of Revised Article 8 are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 211 East Ontario Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 1428, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20220 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Revised Article 9 means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 9, Secured Transactions (with conforming amendments to Articles 1, 2, 2A, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8), 1999 official text. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference of Revised Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code in this part, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Revised Article 9 was approved by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners On Uniform State Laws in 1998. Copies of Revised Article 9 are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 211 East Ontario Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 1428, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220,or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Revised Article 9
means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 9, Secured Transactions (with conforming amendments to Articles 1, 2, 2A, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8), 1999 official text. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference of Revised Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code in this part, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Revised Article 9 was approved by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners On Uniform State Laws in 1998. Copies of Revised Article 9 are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 211 East Ontario Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60611. Copies are also available for public inspection at the Department of the Treasury Library, Room 1428, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220,or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Securities Intermediary means:
Securities Intermediary
means:
(1) A Person that is registered as a “clearing agency” under the federal securities laws; a Federal Reserve Bank; any other person that provides clearance or settlement services with respect to a Book-entry Security that would require it to register as a clearing agency under the federal securities laws but for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing corporation, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a federal or state governmental authority; or
(2) A Person (other than an individual, unless such individual is registered as a broker or dealer under the federal securities laws) including a bank or broker, that in the ordinary course of its business maintains securities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity.
Security means a bill, note, or bond, each as defined in this section. It also means any other obligation issued by the Department that, by the terms of the applicable offering circular or announcement, is made subject to this part. Solely for purposes of this part, it also means:
Security
means a bill, note, or bond, each as defined in this section. It also means any other obligation issued by the Department that, by the terms of the applicable offering circular or announcement, is made subject to this part. Solely for purposes of this part, it also means:
(1) The interest and principal components of a security eligible for Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of Securities (“STRIPS”), if such security has been divided into such components as authorized by the express terms of the offering circular under which the security was issued and the components are maintained separately on the books of one or more Federal Reserve Banks; and
(2) The interest coupons that have been converted to book-entry form under the Treasury's Coupons Under Book-Entry Safekeeping Program (“CUBES”), pursuant to agreement and the regulations in 31 CFR part 358.
Security Entitlement means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry Security.
Security Entitlement
means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry Security.
Signature guarantee program means a signature guarantee program established in response to Rule 17 Ad-15 (17 CFR 240.17Ad-15), issued under authority of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For the purpose of the regulations in this part, the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP), and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP) are recognized by Treasury as such signature guarantee programs.
Signature guarantee program
means a signature guarantee program established in response to Rule 17 Ad-15 (17 CFR 240.17Ad-15), issued under authority of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For the purpose of the regulations in this part, the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP), and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program (MSP) are recognized by Treasury as such signature guarantee programs.
State means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.
Taxpayer identifying number or TIN means a social security account number or an employer identification number, as appropriate.
Taxpayer identifying number
or
TIN
means a social security account number or an employer identification number, as appropriate.
TRADES is the Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System, also referred to as the commercial book-entry system.
TRADES
is the Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System, also referred to as the commercial book-entry system.
Transaction request means a request to effect a change in an account master record or securities portfolio maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct.
Transaction request
means a request to effect a change in an account master record or securities portfolio maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct.
Transaction request form means a form or series of forms prescribed for use by the Department to request a transaction in Legacy Treasury Direct. (This term includes a document that the Department has determined contains all of the elements required by the transaction request form.)
Transaction request form
means a form or series of forms prescribed for use by the Department to request a transaction in Legacy Treasury Direct. (This term includes a document that the Department has determined contains all of the elements required by the transaction request form.)
Transfer Message means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Security maintained in TRADES, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
Transfer Message
means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Security maintained in TRADES, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
Voluntary representative means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to accept payment or direct distribution of a decedent's securities pursuant to § 357.28.
Voluntary representative
means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to accept payment or direct distribution of a decedent's securities pursuant to § 357.28.
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 59038, Nov. 15, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 43628, Aug. 23, 1996; 62 FR 18694, Apr. 16, 1997; 62 FR 33548, June 20, 1997; 67 FR 7079, Feb. 15, 2002; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 70 FR 57431, Sept. 30, 2005; 70 FR 57441, Sept. 30, 2005; 76 FR 18063, Apr. 1, 2011]]

Subpart B—Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System (TRADES)

[Source:67 FR 7080, Feb. 15, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
67 FR 7080, Feb. 15, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

§ 357.10   Laws governing a Treasury book-entry security, TRADES, and security interests or entitlements.

(a) What law governs the rights and obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks; and the rights of any Person against the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks? Except as we provide in paragraph (b) of this section, the following are governed solely by Treasury regulations, including the regulations of this part, the applicable offering circular (which is 31 CFR part 356, in the case of securities issued on and after March 1, 1993), the announcement of the offering, and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars:
What law governs the rights and obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks; and the rights of any Person against the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks?
Except as we provide in paragraph (b) of this section, the following are governed solely by Treasury regulations, including the regulations of this part, the applicable offering circular (which is 31 CFR part 356, in the case of securities issued on and after March 1, 1993), the announcement of the offering, and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars:
(1) The rights and obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to a Book-entry Security or Security Entitlement and the operation of TRADES, and
(2) The rights of any Person, including a Participant, against the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to a Book-entry Security or Security Entitlement and the operation of TRADES.
(b) What law governs security interests in Security Entitlements that are not recorded on a Federal Reserve Bank's books? See the following table:
What law governs security interests in Security Entitlements that are not recorded on a Federal Reserve Bank's books?
See the following table:
If a security interest in a security entitlement is—
And it is—
Then it is governed by—
(1) in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Participant
not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 357.12(e)(2)
the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction where the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Participant's Securities Account is located.
(2) in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Person that is not a Participant
not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 357.12(e)(2)
the law determined in the manner specified in § 357.11.
(c) What law governs if the jurisdiction in paragraph (b)(1) of this section did not adopt Revised Article 8, or Revised Article 8 as amended by Revised Article 9 (both incorporated by reference, see Sec. 357.2)? The law specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be the law of that State as though that State adopted Revised Article 8.
What law governs if the jurisdiction in paragraph (b)(1) of this section did not adopt Revised Article 8, or Revised Article 8 as amended by Revised Article 9 (both incorporated by reference, see Sec. 357.2)?
The law specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be the law of that State as though that State adopted Revised Article 8.

§ 357.11   Laws governing other interests in Treasury securities.

(a) What does the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of a Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction govern? To the extent not inconsistent with these regulations, the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of a Security Intermediary's jurisdiction governs the following:
What does the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of a Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction govern?
To the extent not inconsistent with these regulations, the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of a Security Intermediary's jurisdiction governs the following:
(1) When a Person acquires a Security Entitlement from the Securities Intermediary;
(2) The rights and duties of the Securities Intermediary and Entitlement Holder that arise out of a Security Entitlement;
(3) Whether the Securities Intermediary owes any duties to an adverse claimant to a Security Entitlement;
(4) Whether a Person may assert an Adverse Claim against a Person who acquires a Security Entitlement from the Securities Intermediary or against a Person who purchases a Security Entitlement or interest therein from an Entitlement Holder; and
(5) The perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest in a Security Entitlement (except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section).
(b) What is the “Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction” for purposes of this section? See the following table:
What is the “Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction” for purposes of this section?
See the following table:
If . . .
Then the securities intermediary's jurisdiction is . . .
(1) An agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder governing the securities account expressly provides that a particular jurisdiction is the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction for purposes of Part 1 of Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code, Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code, or the Uniform Commercial Code
the jurisdiction agreed upon.
(2) An agreement between the Securities Intermediary and its Entitlement Holder governing the securities account expressly provides that it is governed by the law of a particular jurisdiction
the jurisdiction agreed upon.
(3) The statements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this table do not apply, but the agreement expressly specifies that the securities account is maintained at an office in a particular jurisdiction
the jurisdiction where the office is located.
(4) The statements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this table do not apply and an account statement identifies the office serving the Entitlement Holder's account
the jurisdiction where the office is located.
(5) None of the statements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this table apply
the jurisdiction in which the chief executive office of the Securities Intermediary is located.
(c) What law governs the perfection of a security interest automatically or by filing? The law (but not the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction in which the Person creating a security interest is located governs whether and how the security interest may be perfected automatically or by filing a financing statement. (This is despite the general rule in (a)(5) of this section).
What law governs the perfection of a security interest automatically or by filing?
The law (but not the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction in which the Person creating a security interest is located governs whether and how the security interest may be perfected automatically or by filing a financing statement. (This is despite the general rule in (a)(5) of this section).
(d) Where is a Person located, for purposes of paragraph (c) of this section? A Person's location is determined under state law, including Revised Article 9 (incorporated by reference, see § 357.2), as it may be amended from time to time.
Where is a Person located, for purposes of paragraph (c) of this section?
A Person's location is determined under state law, including Revised Article 9 (incorporated by reference, see § 357.2), as it may be amended from time to time.
(e) What law governs if the jurisdiction in table (b) of this section did not adopt Revised Article 8 or Revised Article 8 as amended by Revised Article 9 (both incorporated by reference, see § 357.2)? The law for the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be the law of that State as though the State adopted Revised Article 8.
What law governs if the jurisdiction in table (b) of this section did not adopt Revised Article 8 or Revised Article 8 as amended by Revised Article 9 (both incorporated by reference, see § 357.2)?
The law for the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be the law of that State as though the State adopted Revised Article 8.
(f) What other rules apply? For purposes of the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Securities Account is a clearing corporation and the Participant's interest in a Book-entry Security is a Security Entitlement.
What other rules apply?
For purposes of the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Securities Account is a clearing corporation and the Participant's interest in a Book-entry Security is a Security Entitlement.

§ 357.12   A Participant's Security Entitlement.

(a) How is a Participant's Security Entitlement created? A Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book entry that a Book-entry Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.
How is a Participant's Security Entitlement created?
A Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book entry that a Book-entry Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.
(b) What else do I need to know about a Participant's Security Entitlement? See the following table:
What else do I need to know about a Participant's Security Entitlement?
See the following table:
If a security interest in a security entitlement of a participant . . .
Then . . .
(1) Meets all of the following criteria:
(i) is in favor of the United States
(ii) is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank
(iii) is to secure deposits of public money (including without limitation deposits to the Treasury tax and loan accounts, or other security interested required by Federal statute, regulation, or agreement)
it is created; it is perfected; and it has priority over any other interest in the securities.
(c) What is the effect of the marking of a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank? Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized Representative of the United States directing the transfer of the Security.
What is the effect of the marking of a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank?
Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized Representative of the United States directing the transfer of the Security.
(d) Who is an authorized Representative of the United States, for purposes of paragraph (c) in this section? The official designated in the applicable regulations or in an agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.
Who is an authorized Representative of the United States, for purposes of paragraph (c) in this section?
The official designated in the applicable regulations or in an agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.
(e)(1) Must the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person? No, they need not agree to act or recognize any party's interest, except:
Must the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person?
No, they need not agree to act or recognize any party's interest, except:
(i) To the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation, or
(ii) To the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded.
(2) May a security interest be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books? Yes, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest to the extent required by law, regulation, or an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular.
May a security interest be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books?
Yes, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest to the extent required by law, regulation, or an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular.
(3) Does this security interest have priority over other interests? A security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank has priority over any other interest in the securities, except a security in favor of the United States, as provided in table (b) of this section.
Does this security interest have priority over other interests?
A security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank has priority over any other interest in the securities, except a security in favor of the United States, as provided in table (b) of this section.
(4) In addition to the method provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, may a security interest, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, be perfected in another way? Yes, a security interest may be perfected by any method under applicable law as described in § 357.10(b) or § 357.11.
In addition to the method provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, may a security interest, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, be perfected in another way?
Yes, a security interest may be perfected by any method under applicable law as described in § 357.10(b) or § 357.11.
(i) The applicable law governs the perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest.
(ii) A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a clearing corporation in all respects under that law.
(iii) A Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for these purposes.

§ 357.13   Obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to Book-entry Securities and security interests.

(a) Who is entitled to deal with an interest in a Book-entry Security that has been credited to a Participant's Security Account? Except in the case of a security interest in favor of the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise as provided in § 357.12 (e), for the purposes of this subpart B, the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks treat the Participant as exclusively entitled to perform the following functions, even if the Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank has any information or notice to the contrary:
Who is entitled to deal with an interest in a Book-entry Security that has been credited to a Participant's Security Account?
Except in the case of a security interest in favor of the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise as provided in § 357.12 (e), for the purposes of this subpart B, the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks treat the Participant as exclusively entitled to perform the following functions, even if the Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank has any information or notice to the contrary:
(1) Issue a Transfer Message,
(2) Receive interest and other payments with respect thereof, and
(3) Exercise all the rights and powers with respect to the Security,
(b) Are the Federal Reserve Banks and Treasury liable for Adverse Claims? The Federal Reserve Banks and Treasury are not liable to a Person asserting or having an Adverse Claim to a Security Entitlement or to a Book-entry Security in a Participant's Securities Account. This includes any such claim arising as a result of the transfer or disposition of a Book-entry Security by a Federal Reserve Bank, pursuant to a Transfer Message that the Federal Reserve Bank reasonably believes to be genuine.
Are the Federal Reserve Banks and Treasury liable for Adverse Claims?
The Federal Reserve Banks and Treasury are not liable to a Person asserting or having an Adverse Claim to a Security Entitlement or to a Book-entry Security in a Participant's Securities Account. This includes any such claim arising as a result of the transfer or disposition of a Book-entry Security by a Federal Reserve Bank, pursuant to a Transfer Message that the Federal Reserve Bank reasonably believes to be genuine.
(c) When is the obligation of the United States to pay interest and principal with respect to Book-entry Securities discharged? The obligation is discharged once payment is made as follows:
When is the obligation of the United States to pay interest and principal with respect to Book-entry Securities discharged?
The obligation is discharged once payment is made as follows:
(1) A Federal Reserve Bank credits the appropriate amount of interest on Book-entry Securities to a Funds Account maintained at the Bank, or pays it as directed by the Participant.
(2) Book-entry Securities are redeemed according to their terms, a Federal Reserve Bank withdraws the securities from the Participant's Securities Account in which they are maintained, and either:
(i) Credits the amount of the Redemption proceeds, including both principal and interest, where applicable, to a Funds Account at the Bank, or
(ii) Pays such principal and interest as directed by the Participant.
(d) What does a Participant need to do in connection with the Redemption of a Book-entry Security? No action by the Participant is required.
What does a Participant need to do in connection with the Redemption of a Book-entry Security?
No action by the Participant is required.

§ 357.14   What authority does a Federal Reserve Bank have?

(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank has the authority as fiscal agent of the United States to:
(1) Perform functions with respect to the issuance of Book-entry Securities offered and sold by the Department to which this subpart applies, in accordance with the terms of the applicable offering circular and with procedures established by the Department;
(2) Service and maintain Book-entry Securities in accounts established for such purposes;
(3) Make payments of principal and interest, as directed by the Department;
(4) Effect transfer of Book-entry Securities between Participants' Securities Accounts as directed by the Participants; and
(5) Perform such other duties as fiscal agent that the Department may request.
(b) Each Federal Reserve Bank may issue Operating Circulars that are consistent with this part, governing the details of its handling of Book-entry Securities, Security Entitlements, and the operation of the book-entry system under this part.

§ 357.15   How can a debtor's interest in a Security Entitlement be reached by creditors?

(a) The interest of a debtor may be reached by creditors only by legal process upon the Securities Intermediary with whom the debtor's securities account is maintained. Exception: If a Security Entitlement is maintained in the name of a secured party, the debtor's interest may be reached by legal process upon the secured party.
(b) These regulations do not state whether a Federal Reserve Bank is required to honor an order or other notice of attachment in any particular case or class of cases.

Subpart C—Legacy Treasury Direct Book-Entry Securities System (Legacy Treasury Direct)


§ 357.20   Securities account in Legacy Treasury Direct ®.

(a) Account. A securities account consists of:
Account.
A securities account consists of:
(1) An account master record, and
(2) A securities portfolio.
(b) Security. A security in Legacy Treasury Direct is evidenced by the account master record and a description of the security as set out in the securities portfolio associated with an account master record.
Security.
A security in Legacy Treasury Direct is evidenced by the account master record and a description of the security as set out in the securities portfolio associated with an account master record.
(c) Account master record. In order for a security to be maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct, the account owner must have previously established an account master record, except that a new account may be established for the conversion of a definitive security pursuant to 31 CFR 306.23. The account master record includes, but is not limited to, the following data:
Account master record.
In order for a security to be maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct, the account owner must have previously established an account master record, except that a new account may be established for the conversion of a definitive security pursuant to 31 CFR 306.23. The account master record includes, but is not limited to, the following data:
(1) The exact form of registration in which the securities are held;
(2) The Legacy Treasury Direct account number;
(3) The correspondence address for the account;
(4) The TIN of the owner, or in the case of ownership by two individuals, of the first-named owner; and
(5) Payment instructions. (See § 357.26.)
(d) Securities portfolio. The securities portfolio contains a description of each security and is the aggregate of all securities in the securities account.
Securities portfolio.
The securities portfolio contains a description of each security and is the aggregate of all securities in the securities account.
(e) Statement of account. The Department shall send a statement of account (statement):
Statement of account.
The Department shall send a statement of account (statement):
(1) Upon the establishment of an account master record;
(2) Upon a change in the securities portfolio;
(3) At an owner's request; or
(4) Upon the determination on December 31 that an owner has not received a statement of account for that current calendar year.
The statement shall contain information regarding the account as of the date of such statement. The price associated with each security in the securities portfolio will also appear on the statement. 
1
 The statement may be sent to the correspondence address designated in the account master record, or may be sent by electronic means. When the statement is issued as a result of a change in ownership of a security, statements will be sent, where appropriate, to both the former and current owners. Other information regarding the account may be obtained in accordance with § 357.24.
1
The statement may be sent to the correspondence address designated in the account master record, or may be sent by electronic means. When the statement is issued as a result of a change in ownership of a security, statements will be sent, where appropriate, to both the former and current owners. Other information regarding the account may be obtained in accordance with § 357.24.
1 IRS regulations require reporting of income information on a security.
1
IRS regulations require reporting of income information on a security.
(1) If the security is a bill, the price information will be used to comply with this requirement. The earnings reported to IRS for the year of a bill's maturity will be the difference between the par value of the bill and its price.
(a) If a bill was deposited in Legacy Treasury Direct at original issue, the price shown will be the issue price.
(b) If a bill was transferred to Legacy Treasury Direct from TRADES, the price shown will be that included in the transfer wire or supplied subsequently by the bill owner. If a price was not furnished, the price shown will be the weighted average price of the bill of the longest maturity having the identical CUSIP number.
(c) If a bill is transferred from one Legacy Treasury Direct account to another, the price shown in the receiving (transferee's) account will be that shown on the transfer instructions or supplied subsequently by the transferee. If a price is not furnished, the price shown will be the weighted average price at original issue of the bill of the longest maturity having the identical CUSIP number, unless the term of the bill can be determined from the account record in which case the price shown will be the weighted average price at original issue of the bill with that term.
(2) If the security is a note or bond, the earnings reported to IRS for a year will be the periodic interest payments made during that year. If a note or bond is transferred to a Legacy Treasury Direct account between interest payment dates, the earnings reported to IRS for the transferee will show the interest for the entire interest payment period. The price for notes and bonds will be shown on the statement of account for the account owner's information. The price shown will be determined following the procedures described above for bills.
(3) The security owner should report directly to the IRS (a) adjustments to annual earnings amounts arising from acquisition of notes and bonds between interest payment periods and (b) price corrections for bills reported after preparation of the reports to the IRS.
(f) Confirmation notice. The Department shall send a confirmation notice (notice):
Confirmation notice.
The Department shall send a confirmation notice (notice):
(1) Upon a change in an account master record;
(2) Upon scheduling or canceling a reinvestment; or
(3) To confirm the interest earned on a Treasury Inflation Indexed Security. The notice shall contain information regarding the account as of the date of such confirmation. The notice may be sent to the correspondence address designated in the account master record, or may be sent by electronic means. All changes reflected in paragraph (f) (1) and (2) of this section will be included in the next regularly scheduled statement of account. See paragraph (e) of this section for the statement schedule.
(g) Account maintenance fees. An annual maintenance fee shall be charged for each Legacy Treasury Direct securities account holding securities that in the aggregate exceed a stipulated par amount. The amount of the fee will be published by notice in the Federal Register.
Account maintenance fees.
An annual maintenance fee shall be charged for each Legacy Treasury Direct securities account holding securities that in the aggregate exceed a stipulated par amount. The amount of the fee will be published by notice in the
Federal Register.
(h) Closing an account. If a Legacy Treasury Direct account has no holdings, we reserve the right to close the account.
Closing an account.
If a Legacy Treasury Direct account has no holdings, we reserve the right to close the account.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0068)
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 4377, Jan. 23, 1995; 62 FR 18004, Apr. 11, 1997; 62 FR 32033, June 12, 1997; 76 FR 18063, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 357.21   Registration.

(a) General. (1) Registration of a security conclusively establishes ownership, except in the case of partnership nominees, in which case the Department reserves the right to treat the registration as conclusive of ownership. The registration may not, except as provided in this subpart, include any restriction on the authority of an owner to change the data in the account master record, transfer the security, or effect any other change in the securities portfolio.
General.
(1) Registration of a security conclusively establishes ownership, except in the case of partnership nominees, in which case the Department reserves the right to treat the registration as conclusive of ownership. The registration may not, except as provided in this subpart, include any restriction on the authority of an owner to change the data in the account master record, transfer the security, or effect any other change in the securities portfolio.
(2) The registration of all securities held by an owner should be uniform with respect to the owner's name. An owner must be identified by the name by which the owner is ordinarily known, preferably including at least one full given name. A suffix, such as Sr. or Jr., must be included when ordinarily used, or when necessary to distinguish members of the same family.
Sr.
or
Jr.,
must be included when ordinarily used, or when necessary to distinguish members of the same family.
(3) If an additional security is deposited in an existing account, the security will be registered in the same name and form of registration that appears in the designated account master record. One who holds a security as John Allen Doe should use that name when depositing another security rather than J. Allen Doe, or John A. Doe'. Minor variations in names used in acquiring a security to be deposited in an established account may be resolved by the Department.
John Allen Doe
should use that name when depositing another security rather than
J. Allen Doe,
or
John A. Doe'. Minor variations in names used in acquiring a security to be deposited in an established account may be resolved by the Department.
(b) Natural persons. A security may be registered in the names of one or two individuals, but only in one of the following forms:
Natural persons.
A security may be registered in the names of one or two individuals, but only in one of the following forms:
(1) Single ownership. In the name of one individual.
Single ownership.
In the name of one individual.
Example:
Robert W. Woods
An individual who is sole proprietor of a business conducted under a trade name may include a reference to the trade name.
Example:
John A. Doe, doing business as Doe's Home Appliance Store.
(2) Ownership by two individuals—(i) “And” form—Joint Ownership—(A) Without right of survivorship. In the names of two individuals, joined by the word “and”, and followed by the words “without right of survivorship”. A security so registered shall conclusively confer on each owner an undivided interest in the security.
Ownership by two individuals
—(i)
“And” form—Joint Ownership
—(A)
Without right of survivorship.
In the names of two individuals, joined by the word “and”, and followed by the words “without right of survivorship”. A security so registered shall conclusively confer on each owner an undivided interest in the security.
Example:
Elizabeth Black and Jane Brown, without right of survivorship.
Any registration which purports, by its terms, to preclude the right of survivorship, or any registration in the names of two persons without indicating whether survivorship rights attach (other than a registration under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section), will be presumed to be ownership without right of survivorship. If a security is registered in this form, a transaction request, other than a request by one owner to transfer the security to the other owner, and other than a request for reinvestment, must be executed by both owners.
(B) With right of survivorship. In the names of two individuals, joined by the word “and”, and followed by the words “with right of survivorship”. A security so registered shall confer on each owner an undivided interest in the security and shall create a conclusive right of survivorship.
With right of survivorship.
In the names of two individuals, joined by the word “and”, and followed by the words “with right of survivorship”. A security so registered shall confer on each owner an undivided interest in the security and shall create a conclusive right of survivorship.
Example:
Mark A. Doe and Mary B. Doe, with right of survivorship.
If a security is registered in this form, a transaction request, other than a request by one owner to transfer the security to the other owner, and other than a request for reinvestment, must be executed by both owners.
(ii) “Or” form—“Coownership”. In the names of two individuals, joined by the word “or”. A security so registered shall confer on each owner an undivided interest in the security and shall create a conclusive right of survivorship.
“Or” form—“Coownership”.
In the names of two individuals, joined by the word “or”. A security so registered shall confer on each owner an undivided interest in the security and shall create a conclusive right of survivorship.
Example:
Robert Woods or Laura Woods.
If a security is registered in this form, either coowner may make a transaction request, but if the Department receives conflicting requests at or about the same time, it may refuse to process them.
(iii) Beneficiary. In the name of one individual followed by the words “Payable on death to” (or “P.O.D.”) another individual.
Beneficiary.
In the name of one individual followed by the words “Payable on death to” (or “P.O.D.”) another individual.
Example:
Jack S. Jones, payable on death to Marie Jones.
If a minor or an incompetent is named as a beneficiary, the status of the beneficiary must be identified in the registration. A minor or an incompetent may not be designated as an owner. See paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.
Example:
John Perry, P.O.D. John Perry, Jr., a minor.
Registration in this form shall create ownership rights in the beneficiary only if the beneficiary survives the owner. During an owner's lifetime, a transaction request may be executed by the owner without the consent of the beneficiary. If the beneficiary dies before the owner, the security will be deemed to be registered in the owner's name alone.
(3) Minors—(i) General. A security may not be registered in the name of a minor in his or her own right as an owner. If a security is so registered and the Department thereafter receives evidence or information of that fact, the Department may suspend processing of any transaction request with respect to the security until either a legal guardian has been appointed or a natural guardian, as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, has been recognized. Where a legal guardian is appointed, the Department will require a certified copy of the court order making such appointment. See § 357.28(c).
Minors
—(i)
General.
A security may not be registered in the name of a minor in his or her own right as an owner. If a security is so registered and the Department thereafter receives evidence or information of that fact, the Department may suspend processing of any transaction request with respect to the security until either a legal guardian has been appointed or a natural guardian, as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, has been recognized. Where a legal guardian is appointed, the Department will require a certified copy of the court order making such appointment. See § 357.28(c).
(ii) Natural guardians of minors. A security may be registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor for whose estate no legal representative has been appointed. The parent with whom the minor resides will be recognized as the natural guardian. If the minor resides with both parents, either or both may be recognized as natural guardian(s). If the minor does not reside with either parent, the Department may recognize the person who furnishes the minor's chief support as the natural guardian.
Natural guardians of minors.
A security may be registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor for whose estate no legal representative has been appointed. The parent with whom the minor resides will be recognized as the natural guardian. If the minor resides with both parents, either or both may be recognized as natural guardian(s). If the minor does not reside with either parent, the Department may recognize the person who furnishes the minor's chief support as the natural guardian.
Examples:
Michael Jones, as natural guardian of Alice Jones, a minor.
Michael Jones and Evelyn Jones, as natural guardians of Alice Jones, a minor.
The security may also be registered in one of the forms authorized under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Examples:
James Green, as natural guardian of William Green, a minor, and Anne Green, without right of survivorship.
James Green, as natural guardian of William Green, a minor, POD Lynne Green.
(iii) Custodian under statute authorizing gifts to minors. A security may be registered as provided under an applicable gift to minors statute.
Custodian under statute authorizing gifts to minors.
A security may be registered as provided under an applicable gift to minors statute.
Example:
Virginia McDonald, as custodian for Lynne Gorman, under the New York Uniform Gifts to Minors Act.
Any request to alter the rights of ownership of the security must be made as provided in the applicable statute.
(4) Incompetents—(i) General. A security may not be registered in the name of an individual in his or her own right as an owner if that individual is incompetent. If a security is so registered, or if the owner subsequently becomes incompetent after the security is purchased, and the Department receives evidence or information of that fact, the Department may suspend any transaction with respect to the security until a legal guardian, conservator, or other representative of the incompetent's estate has been appointed, or a voluntary guardian, as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, has been recognized. Where a legal guardian, conservator, or other representative is appointed, the Department will require a certified copy of the court order making such appointment. See § 357.28(c).
Incompetents
—(i)
General.
A security may not be registered in the name of an individual in his or her own right as an owner if that individual is incompetent. If a security is so registered, or if the owner subsequently becomes incompetent after the security is purchased, and the Department receives evidence or information of that fact, the Department may suspend any transaction with respect to the security until a legal guardian, conservator, or other representative of the incompetent's estate has been appointed, or a voluntary guardian, as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, has been recognized. Where a legal guardian, conservator, or other representative is appointed, the Department will require a certified copy of the court order making such appointment. See § 357.28(c).
(ii) Voluntary guardian of incompetent. If a legal guardian has not been appointed, and the face amount of the securities held in one or more accounts in Legacy Treasury Direct ® by an owner who had become incompetent does not exceed, in the aggregate, $20,000 (par amount), upon submission to, and approval by, the Department of an appropriate form, a relative or other person responsible for an incompetent's care and support will be recognized as voluntary guardian for purpose of making a transaction request under § 357.28(b)(4). All persons known by the Department to have an interest in the incompetent's estate, as required by the application form, must agree to the designation of the voluntary guardian. The security may be re-registered in the name of the voluntary guardian.
Voluntary guardian of incompetent.
If a legal guardian has not been appointed, and the face amount of the securities held in one or more accounts in Legacy Treasury Direct ® by an owner who had become incompetent does not exceed, in the aggregate, $20,000 (par amount), upon submission to, and approval by, the Department of an appropriate form, a relative or other person responsible for an incompetent's care and support will be recognized as voluntary guardian for purpose of making a transaction request under § 357.28(b)(4). All persons known by the Department to have an interest in the incompetent's estate, as required by the application form, must agree to the designation of the voluntary guardian. The security may be re-registered in the name of the voluntary guardian.
Example:
Richard Melrose, as voluntary guardian for James W. Brundige.
(c) Representatives. A security may be registered in the name of a representative of an estate. If there is more than one representative, the names of some representatives may be omitted if followed by language that indicates the existence of other representatives. In such cases, those named in the registration shall be conclusively presumed by the Department to have authority to make a transaction request on behalf of all the representatives. The form of registration must identify the specific capacity of the representative(s) and the estate represented.
Representatives.
A security may be registered in the name of a representative of an estate. If there is more than one representative, the names of some representatives may be omitted if followed by language that indicates the existence of other representatives. In such cases, those named in the registration shall be conclusively presumed by the Department to have authority to make a transaction request on behalf of all the representatives. The form of registration must identify the specific capacity of the representative(s) and the estate represented.
Examples:
ABC National Bank of Chicago, Illinois and Harold Smith, co-executors of the will (or administrators of the estate) of Charles Johnson, deceased.
William Brown, guardian of the estate of Henry Jones, a minor.
Robert Smith, Richard Smith, et al., executors of the will of Lorraine Smith, deceased.
et al.,
executors of the will of Lorraine Smith, deceased.
If the representative is a trustee, the form of registration must identify specifically the authority or document creating the trust.
Examples:
Sarah Jones and XYZ Trust Co., trustees under the will of Matthew Smith, deceased.
Cynthia Doe and Margaret Jones, trustees under agreement with Martha Roe, dated April 13, 1979.
Cynthia Doe, trustee under declaration of trust, dated April 13, 1979.
Richard Smith, James Jones, and Frank Brown, trustees under the will of Henry K. James, deceased.
ABC Corporation, Myrna Banker,
et al.,
trustees of Profit-Sharing Plan of Ace Manufacturing Co., under B/D resolution, dated May 18, 1975.
If there are several trustees designated as a board or authorized to act as a unit, their names should be omitted and the words, “Board of Trustees” substituted.
Example:
Board of Trustees of Super Co. Retirement Fund, under collective bargaining agreement, dated March 18, 1969.
An organization (other than a bank) or individual seeking to act as trustee or custodian of an Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”), must be authorized to so act by the Internal Revenue Service. As appropriate, registration of the security should be in the form shown below:
Examples:
ABC Bank, trustee for John Doe IRA, under agreement dated December 21, 1990.
EFG Broker, Inc., custodian for Mary Smith IRA, under agreement dated September 4, 1991.
(d) Private organizations (corporations, unincorporated associations and partnerships). A security may be registered in the name of a private corporation, unincorporated association, or partnership. The full legal name of the organization, as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other documents from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration. The name may be followed by a reference to a particular account or fund, other than a trust fund, such as an escrow account.
Private organizations (corporations, unincorporated associations and partnerships).
A security may be registered in the name of a private corporation, unincorporated association, or partnership. The full legal name of the organization, as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other documents from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration. The name may be followed by a reference to a particular account or fund, other than a trust fund, such as an escrow account.
(1) A corporation. The legal name of a business, fraternal, religious, or other private corporation must be followed by descriptive words indicating the corporate status unless the term corporation or the abbreviation Inc. is part of the name or the name is that of a corporation or association organized under Federal law, such as a national bank or Federal savings and loan association.
A corporation.
The legal name of a business, fraternal, religious, or other private corporation must be followed by descriptive words indicating the corporate status unless the term
corporation
or the abbreviation
Inc.
is part of the name or the name is that of a corporation or association organized under Federal law, such as a national bank or Federal savings and loan association.
Examples:
Brown Manufacturing Co., a corporation (Education Fund).
The Apex Manufacturing Corporation.
XYZ National Bank of El Paso, TX.
Goodworks, Unlimited, a not-for-profit corporation.
(2) An unincorporated association. Unless the name of a lodge, club, labor union, veterans or religious organization, or similar organization which is not incorporated (whether or not it is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization which is incorporated) includes the words an unincorporated association, the registration must include descriptive words indicating the organization's unincorporated status. A security may not be registered in the name of an unincorporated association if the legal title to its property or the legal title to the funds with which the security is to be purchased is held by trustees. In such a case, the security should be registered in the name of the trustees in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The term unincorporated association should not be used to describe a trust fund, a partnership or a business conducted under a trade name.
An unincorporated association.
Unless the name of a lodge, club, labor union, veterans or religious organization, or similar organization which is not incorporated (whether or not it is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization which is incorporated) includes the words
an unincorporated association,
the registration must include descriptive words indicating the organization's unincorporated status. A security may not be registered in the name of an unincorporated association if the legal title to its property or the legal title to the funds with which the security is to be purchased is held by trustees. In such a case, the security should be registered in the name of the trustees in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The term
unincorporated association
should not be used to describe a trust fund, a partnership or a business conducted under a trade name.
Examples:
Local Union No. 13, Brotherhood of Operating Engineers, an unincorporated association.
The Simpson Society, an unincorporated association.
(3) Partnership. Unless the name of a partnership includes the word partnership, the registration must include descriptive words indicating partnership status.
Partnership.
Unless the name of a partnership includes the word
partnership,
the registration must include descriptive words indicating partnership status.
Examples:
Red & Blue, a partnership.
Abco and Co., a nominee partnership.
(e) Governmental entities and officers. A security may be registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, school district, or other governmental entity, body, or corporation established by law. If a governmental officer is authorized to act as a trustee or custodian, a security may be registered in the title, or name and title, of the governmental officer. The form of registration should reflect the capacity in which the governmental entity or officer is authorized to hold property (e.g., it may be authorized to hold property in its own name or as trustee or custodian).
Governmental entities and officers.
A security may be registered in the name of a State, county, city, town, village, school district, or other governmental entity, body, or corporation established by law. If a governmental officer is authorized to act as a trustee or custodian, a security may be registered in the title, or name and title, of the governmental officer. The form of registration should reflect the capacity in which the governmental entity or officer is authorized to hold property (e.g., it may be authorized to hold property in its own name or as trustee or custodian).
Examples:
Laura Woods, Treasurer, City of Twin Falls, Mo.
State of Michigan.
Village of Gaithersburg, Md.
Pennsylvania State Highway Administration (Highway Road Repair Fund).
Insurance Commissioner of Florida, trustee for benefit of policy holders of Sunshine Insurance Co. under F.S.A. Sec. 629.104.
Commonwealth of Virginia, in trust for Virginia Surplus Property Agency.
Gleason County Cemetery Commission, trustee under Md. Code Ann. Sec. 310.29.
(f) The United States Treasury. A security may be registered in the name of an individual, with the United States Treasury as beneficiary, provided a reference to the statute which authorizes gifts to be made to the United States to reduce the public debt, is included.
The United States Treasury.
A security may be registered in the name of an individual, with the United States Treasury as beneficiary, provided a reference to the statute which authorizes gifts to be made to the United States to reduce the public debt, is included.
Example:
John S. Green, payable on death [or P.O.D.] to U.S. Treasury to reduce the public debt (31 U.S.C. 3113).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0068)
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, as amended at 57 FR 38774, Aug. 27, 1992; 76 FR 18063, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 357.22   Transfers.

(a) General. A security may be transferred only as authorized by this part. A security may be transferred from an account in Legacy Treasury Direct® to an account in the commercial book-entry system or to an account in TreasuryDirect®. A security may also be transferred between accounts in Legacy Treasury Direct. The Department may delay transfer of a newly purchased security from a Legacy Treasury Direct account to an account in commercial book entry or TreasuryDirect for a period not to exceed (30) calendar days from the date of issue. This provides time for the investor to become aware of any unauthorized debits.
General.
A security may be transferred only as authorized by this part. A security may be transferred from an account in Legacy Treasury Direct® to an account in the commercial book-entry system or to an account in TreasuryDirect®. A security may also be transferred between accounts in
Legacy Treasury Direct.
The Department may delay transfer of a newly purchased security from a Legacy Treasury Direct account to an account in commercial book entry or TreasuryDirect for a period not to exceed (30) calendar days from the date of issue. This provides time for the investor to become aware of any unauthorized debits.
(1) Identification of securities to be transferred. The owner must identify the securities to be transferred, in the manner required by the transaction request. If such identification is not provided, the request will not be processed and will be returned.
Identification of securities to be transferred.
The owner must identify the securities to be transferred, in the manner required by the transaction request. If such identification is not provided, the request will not be processed and will be returned.
(2) Denominational amounts. A security may be transferred from an account only in a denominational amount authorized by the offering under which the security was issued. Any security remaining in the securities portfolio after the transfer must also be in an authorized denominational amount.
Denominational amounts.
A security may be transferred from an account only in a denominational amount authorized by the offering under which the security was issued. Any security remaining in the securities portfolio after the transfer must also be in an authorized denominational amount.
(3) When transfer effective—(i) Transfer within Legacy Treasury Direct. A transfer of a security within Legacy Treasury Direct is effective when an appropriate entry is made in the name of the transferee on the Legacy Treasury Direct records.
When transfer effective
—(i)
Transfer within Legacy Treasury Direct.
A transfer of a security within Legacy Treasury Direct is effective when an appropriate entry is made in the name of the transferee on the Legacy Treasury Direct records.
(ii) Transfer from Legacy Treasury Direct to the commercial book-entry system. A transfer of a security from Legacy Treasury Direct to the commercial book-entry system is effective as provided in subpart B. If a transfer cannot be completed, and the security is sent back to Legacy Treasury Direct, the Department will redeposit the security in the original account.
Transfer from Legacy Treasury Direct to the commercial book-entry system.
A transfer of a security from Legacy Treasury Direct to the commercial book-entry system is effective as provided in subpart B. If a transfer cannot be completed, and the security is sent back to Legacy Treasury Direct, the Department will redeposit the security in the original account.
(iii) Transfer from Legacy Treasury Direct to TreasuryDirect. A transfer of a security from Legacy Treasury Direct to TreasuryDirect is effective as provided in 31 CFR part 363. If the transfer cannot be completed, the Department will redeposit the security in the original account.
Transfer from Legacy Treasury Direct to TreasuryDirect.
A transfer of a security from Legacy Treasury Direct to TreasuryDirect is effective as provided in 31 CFR part 363. If the transfer cannot be completed, the Department will redeposit the security in the original account.
(b) Transfer upon death of an owner—(1) Right of survivorship. If a security is registered in beneficiary form or a form which provides for a right of survivorship, upon the death of an owner, the beneficiary or survivor shall be the sole and absolute owner, notwithstanding any purported testamentary disposition by the decedent and notwithstanding any State or other law to the contrary. The Department will honor a transaction request by a beneficiary or a survivor (in the case of a security registered in the form described in § 357.21(b)(2)(i)(B)) only upon proof of death of an owner.
Transfer upon death of an owner
—(1)
Right of survivorship.
If a security is registered in beneficiary form or a form which provides for a right of survivorship, upon the death of an owner, the beneficiary or survivor shall be the sole and absolute owner, notwithstanding any purported testamentary disposition by the decedent and notwithstanding any State or other law to the contrary. The Department will honor a transaction request by a beneficiary or a survivor (in the case of a security registered in the form described in § 357.21(b)(2)(i)(B)) only upon proof of death of an owner.
(2) Succession under law of domicile. If a security is registered in a form that does not provide for a right of survivorship, succession shall be determined in accordance with the applicable law of the deceased owner's domicile at the time of death.
Succession under law of domicile.
If a security is registered in a form that does not provide for a right of survivorship, succession shall be determined in accordance with the applicable law of the deceased owner's domicile at the time of death.
(c) Representative succession. If a security is registered in the name of a representative who has died, resigned, or been removed, succession shall be determined in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the document under which the representative was acting.
Representative succession.
If a security is registered in the name of a representative who has died, resigned, or been removed, succession shall be determined in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the document under which the representative was acting.
(d) Organizational succession—(1) Corporation and unincorporated association. If a security is registered in the name of a corporation or an unincorporated association that has been dissolved, merged or consolidated into another organization, succession shall be determined in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the documents by which the dissolution, merger, or consolidation was effected.
Organizational succession
—(1)
Corporation and unincorporated association.
If a security is registered in the name of a corporation or an unincorporated association that has been dissolved, merged or consolidated into another organization, succession shall be determined in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the documents by which the dissolution, merger, or consolidation was effected.
(2) Partnership. If a partnership is dissolved or terminated, succession shall be determined in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the partnership agreement.
Partnership.
If a partnership is dissolved or terminated, succession shall be determined in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the partnership agreement.
(e) Succession of governmental officer. If a security is registered in the name and title of a governmental officer who has died, resigned, or has been removed, succession shall be determined in accordance with applicable law.
Succession of governmental officer.
If a security is registered in the name and title of a governmental officer who has died, resigned, or has been removed, succession shall be determined in accordance with applicable law.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0068)
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986; 51 FR 18884, May 23, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 10074, Mar. 29, 1988; 62 FR 46861, Sept. 4, 1997; 64 FR 6527, Feb. 10, 1999; 70 FR 57441, Sept. 30, 2005; 75 FR 78901, Dec. 17, 2010; 76 FR 18064, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 357.23   Judicial proceedings—sovereign immunity.

(a) Department and Federal Reserve Banks not proper parties. The Department and the Federal Reserve Banks are not proper defendants in a judicial proceeding involving competing claims to a security held in Legacy Treasury Direct ® nor are they subject to any injunction or restraining order issued with respect to a security. The Department will not recognize a notice of a pending or contemplated judicial or administrative proceeding affecting a security in Legacy Treasury Direct.
Department and Federal Reserve Banks not proper parties.
The Department and the Federal Reserve Banks are not proper defendants in a judicial proceeding involving competing claims to a security held in Legacy Treasury Direct ® nor are they subject to any injunction or restraining order issued with respect to a security. The Department will not recognize a notice of a pending or contemplated judicial or administrative proceeding affecting a security in Legacy Treasury Direct.
(b) Orders—(1) Ownership rights. The Department will recognize a final order entered by a court that affects ownership rights in a security in Legacy Treasury Direct if:
Orders
—(1)
Ownership rights.
The Department will recognize a final order entered by a court that affects ownership rights in a security in Legacy Treasury Direct if:
(i) The order is consistent with the provisions of this subpart and the terms and conditions of the security; and
(ii) The Department has received evidence of the order, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Transaction request. The Department will honor a transaction request submitted by a person appointed by a court and having authority under an order of a court to dispose of the security or payment with respect thereto if:
Transaction request.
The Department will honor a transaction request submitted by a person appointed by a court and having authority under an order of a court to dispose of the security or payment with respect thereto if:
(i) The ordered disposition of the security or payments with respect thereto is consistent with the provisions of this subpart and the terms and conditions of the security; and
(ii) The Department has received evidence of the appointment and order, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Evidence required. Before the Department will recognize an order or determination entered by a court, the Department must have received a certified copy of the judgment, decree, or order and any additional documents deemed necessary by the Department. A certificate from the clerk of the court, bearing the seal of the court, must also be submitted stating that the judgment, decree, or order is still in full force and has not been stayed or appealed, and that the time for filing an appeal has passed. Before the Department will honor a transaction request submitted by a person appointed by a court, the Department must receive a certified copy of the order making the appointment and describing specifically the person's authority, and any additional documents deemed necessary by the Department.
Evidence required.
Before the Department will recognize an order or determination entered by a court, the Department must have received a certified copy of the judgment, decree, or order and any additional documents deemed necessary by the Department. A certificate from the clerk of the court, bearing the seal of the court, must also be submitted stating that the judgment, decree, or order is still in full force and has not been stayed or appealed, and that the time for filing an appeal has passed. Before the Department will honor a transaction request submitted by a person appointed by a court, the Department must receive a certified copy of the order making the appointment and describing specifically the person's authority, and any additional documents deemed necessary by the Department.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0068)

§ 357.24   Availability and disclosure of Legacy Treasury Direct ® records.

(a) General. All records with respect to a Legacy Treasury Direct account are held confidential. Consistent with the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), information relating to those accounts will be released only to the owner except:
General.
All records with respect to a Legacy Treasury Direct account are held confidential. Consistent with the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), information relating to those accounts will be released only to the owner except:
(1) As provided in these regulations;
(2) As provided in Treasury regulations contained in 31 CFR part 323; or
(3) As otherwise provided by law.
(b) Inquiries by owners. Information requested will be disclosed to an owner provided that:
Inquiries by owners.
Information requested will be disclosed to an owner provided that:
(1) Sufficient information is provided to identify the owner; and
(2) Sufficient information is provided to identify the Legacy Treasury Direct account.
(c) Conditions for release. A request for information will be honored only if, in the sole judgment of the Department or the Federal Reserve Bank to which the inquiry is made, the identity and right of the requester to the information have been established.
Conditions for release.
A request for information will be honored only if, in the sole judgment of the Department or the Federal Reserve Bank to which the inquiry is made, the identity and right of the requester to the information have been established.
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986; 51 FR 18884, May 23, 1986]]

§ 357.25   Security interests.

(a) General. The Department will not recognize any notice or claim of a lien, encumbrance, or security interest of any kind, including a pledge, in a security in Legacy Treasury Direct ® except as provided in § 357.23 and in paragraph (b) of this section.
General.
The Department will not recognize any notice or claim of a lien, encumbrance, or security interest of any kind, including a pledge, in a security in Legacy Treasury Direct ® except as provided in § 357.23 and in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Security for the performance of duty or obligation under Federal law. The Department will accept and hold pursuant to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9303, book-entry bonds, notes or bills submitted in lieu of a surety bond as security for the performance of a duty or obligation required by Federal law in accordance with said section.
Security for the performance of duty or obligation under Federal law.
The Department will accept and hold pursuant to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9303, book-entry bonds, notes or bills submitted in lieu of a surety bond as security for the performance of a duty or obligation required by Federal law in accordance with said section.

§ 357.26   Direct Deposit.

(a) General. A payment by the Department with respect to a security shall be by direct deposit unless it is deemed necessary by the Department to make payment by another means. Direct Deposit payments are governed by the regulations at 31 CFR part 370.
General.
A payment by the Department with respect to a security shall be by direct deposit unless it is deemed necessary by the Department to make payment by another means. Direct Deposit payments are governed by the regulations at 31 CFR part 370.
(b) Names on account. Where the Legacy Treasury Direct ® securities account is in the name of individual(s) in their own right, and the deposit account at the financial institution is in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the two accounts must contain at least one name that is common to both.
Names on account.
Where the Legacy Treasury Direct ® securities account is in the name of individual(s) in their own right, and the deposit account at the financial institution is in the name of individual(s) in their own right, the two accounts must contain at least one name that is common to both.
(c) Inquiry to financial institution. Where the deposit account to which payments are to be directed is held in the name of the financial institution itself acting as sole trustee, or as co-trustee, or is in the name of a commercially-managed investment fund, particular inquiry should first be made of the financial institution to make certain that the direct deposit payments can be received, and alternate arrangements made if it cannot do so.
Inquiry to financial institution.
Where the deposit account to which payments are to be directed is held in the name of the financial institution itself acting as sole trustee, or as co-trustee, or is in the name of a commercially-managed investment fund, particular inquiry should first be made of the financial institution to make certain that the direct deposit payments can be received, and alternate arrangements made if it cannot do so.
(d) Payments to master account. All payments relating to a single account master record must be made to the same designated account at a financial institution.
Payments to master account.
All payments relating to a single account master record must be made to the same designated account at a financial institution.
(e) Deposit account. The deposit account to which payments are directed should preferably be established in a form identical to the registration of the securities account, particularly where the securities are registered jointly or with right of survivorship, to assure that the rights of ownership and of survivorship can be more easily identified and preserved. Neither the United States nor any Federal Reserve Bank shall be liable for any loss sustained because the interests of the holder(s) of a deposit account to which payments are made are not the same as the interests of the owner(s) of the security.
Deposit account.
The deposit account to which payments are directed should preferably be established in a form identical to the registration of the securities account, particularly where the securities are registered jointly or with right of survivorship, to assure that the rights of ownership and of survivorship can be more easily identified and preserved. Neither the United States nor any Federal Reserve Bank shall be liable for any loss sustained because the interests of the holder(s) of a deposit account to which payments are made are not the same as the interests of the owner(s) of the security.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0068)
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, as amended at 57 FR 38774, Aug. 27, 1992; 61 FR 6113, Feb. 16, 1996; 64 FR 40487, July 26, 1999]]

§ 357.27   Reinvestment.

(a) General. Upon the request of an owner, the redemption proceeds of a security may be reinvested at maturity in a new security in the same form of registration, provided a new security is then being offered by the Department and provision for reinvestment is made in the offering. The new security must be in an authorized denominational amount and will be issued in accordance with the terms of the offering. If the new security is issued at a premium or with accrued interest, an additional payment will be required from the investor. If the new security is issued at a discount, the difference will be remitted to the owner.
General.
Upon the request of an owner, the redemption proceeds of a security may be reinvested at maturity in a new security in the same form of registration, provided a new security is then being offered by the Department and provision for reinvestment is made in the offering. The new security must be in an authorized denominational amount and will be issued in accordance with the terms of the offering. If the new security is issued at a premium or with accrued interest, an additional payment will be required from the investor. If the new security is issued at a discount, the difference will be remitted to the owner.
(b) Treasury bills. A request by an owner for a single or successive reinvestment of a Treasury bill must be made in accordance with the terms prescribed on the tender form submitted at the time of purchase of the original bill, or by a subsequent transaction request received not less than ten (10) business days prior to the maturity date of the bill. A request to revoke a direction to reinvest the proceeds of a bill must be received by the Department not less than ten (10) business days prior to the maturity date of the bill. If either a request for reinvestment or revocation of a reinvestment request is received less than ten (10) business days prior to maturity of the original bill, the Department may in its discretion act on such request if sufficient time remains for processing.
Treasury bills.
A request by an owner for a single or successive reinvestment of a Treasury bill must be made in accordance with the terms prescribed on the tender form submitted at the time of purchase of the original bill, or by a subsequent transaction request received not less than ten (10) business days prior to the maturity date of the bill. A request to revoke a direction to reinvest the proceeds of a bill must be received by the Department not less than ten (10) business days prior to the maturity date of the bill. If either a request for reinvestment or revocation of a reinvestment request is received less than ten (10) business days prior to maturity of the original bill, the Department may in its discretion act on such request if sufficient time remains for processing.
(c) Issue date not coincidental with maturity date. If the date on which a security matures or is called does not coincide with the issue date of the security being purchased through reinvestment, the Department may, at its option, hold the redemption proceeds in the same form of registration as the maturing or called security, but no interest shall accrue or be paid on such funds.
Issue date not coincidental with maturity date.
If the date on which a security matures or is called does not coincide with the issue date of the security being purchased through reinvestment, the Department may, at its option, hold the redemption proceeds in the same form of registration as the maturing or called security, but no interest shall accrue or be paid on such funds.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0068)
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, as amended at 62 FR 18694, Apr. 16, 1997]]

§ 357.28   Transaction requests.

(a) General. Unless otherwise authorized by the Department, a transaction request must be submitted on a transaction request form. In the case of certain transactions specified by the Department, the owner's signature on the form must be certified or guaranteed, as provided in § 357.31. If the transaction request form is received more than six (6) months after its execution, it will not be honored by the Department and will be returned to the sender for further instructions.
General.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Department, a transaction request must be submitted on a transaction request form. In the case of certain transactions specified by the Department, the owner's signature on the form must be certified or guaranteed, as provided in § 357.31. If the transaction request form is received more than six (6) months after its execution, it will not be honored by the Department and will be returned to the sender for further instructions.
(b) Individuals—(1) General. A transaction request must be signed by the owner of the security. In addition to any required certification, a transaction request form executed by a person by mark, e.g., “(X)”, must be witnessed by a disinterested person. The following language should be added to the form and be signed by the witness:
Individuals
—(1)
General.
A transaction request must be signed by the owner of the security. In addition to any required certification, a transaction request form executed by a person by mark, e.g., “(X)”, must be witnessed by a disinterested person. The following language should be added to the form and be signed by the witness:
Witness to signature by mark
Signature of witness
Address of witness
(2) Change of name. If an individual's name has been changed from that appearing in the registration, the individual should sign both names to the transaction request form and state the manner in which the change occurred.
Change of name.
If an individual's name has been changed from that appearing in the registration, the individual should sign both names to the transaction request form and state the manner in which the change occurred.
Example:
Deborah L. Gains, changed by order of court from Deborah G. O'Brien.
The individual must provide evidence, such as a certified copy of a court order, which confirms the change, unless it is indicated that the change of name resulted from marriage.
Example:
Catherine M. Cole, changed by marriage from Catherine T. Murray.
(3) Natural guardians. A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor may be executed by the natural guardian. If a security is registered in the names of both parents as natural guardians of a minor, both must execute a transaction request. However, the Department will not honor a transaction request by the natural guardian(s):
Natural guardians.
A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor may be executed by the natural guardian. If a security is registered in the names of both parents as natural guardians of a minor, both must execute a transaction request. However, the Department will not honor a transaction request by the natural guardian(s):
(i) Which would transfer the security to a natural guardian in his or her own right; or
(ii) After the Department receives notice of the minor's attainment of majority, the qualification of a legal guardian or similar representative, or the death of the minor.
(4) Voluntary guardians. A transaction request involving a security belonging to an owner who has become incompetent may be executed by a voluntary guardian, but only after approval by the Department of the voluntary guardian's application for such designation. However, the Department will not honor a transaction request by the voluntary guardian:
Voluntary guardians.
A transaction request involving a security belonging to an owner who has become incompetent may be executed by a voluntary guardian, but only after approval by the Department of the voluntary guardian's application for such designation. However, the Department will not honor a transaction request by the voluntary guardian:
(i) Which would transfer the security to a voluntary guardian in his or her own right; or
(ii) After the Department receives notice of the ward's restoration to competency, the qualification of a legal guardian or similar representative, or the death of the ward. See § 357.21(b)(4).
(c) Representatives—(1) General. Any representative of an owner's estate, other than a trustee, may execute a transaction request form if the representative submits to the Department properly authenticated evidence of the authority to act. The evidence will not be accepted if dated more than one year prior to the date of submission of the transaction request.
Representatives
—(1)
General.
Any representative of an owner's estate, other than a trustee, may execute a transaction request form if the representative submits to the Department properly authenticated evidence of the authority to act. The evidence will not be accepted if dated more than one year prior to the date of submission of the transaction request.
(2) Decedent's estate has been settled previously. If a decedent's estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may make a transaction request. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence will be required.
Decedent's estate has been settled previously.
If a decedent's estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may make a transaction request. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence will be required.
(3) Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile. If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the decedent's estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under applicable local law summary or small estates procedures may make a transaction request. Appropriate evidence will be required.
Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile.
If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the decedent's estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under applicable local law summary or small estates procedures may make a transaction request. Appropriate evidence will be required.
(4) When administration is required. If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
When administration is required.
If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
(5) Voluntary representative for small estates of decedents that are not being otherwise administered—(i) General. A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, to make a transaction request. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's securities and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
Voluntary representative for small estates of decedents that are not being otherwise administered
—(i)
General.
A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, to make a transaction request. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's securities and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
(A) There has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, and no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used;
(B) The total redemption value of the Treasury securities and held payments, if any, that are the property of the decedent's estate is $100,000 or less as of the date of death; and
(C) There is a person eligible to serve as the voluntary representative according to paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.
(ii) Authority of voluntary representative. A voluntary representative may make a transaction request to distribute the securities to or for the benefit of the persons entitled by laws of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death.
Authority of voluntary representative.
A voluntary representative may make a transaction request to distribute the securities to or for the benefit of the persons entitled by laws of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death.
(iii) Order of precedence for voluntary representative. An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
Order of precedence for voluntary representative.
An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
(iv) Liability. By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of securities or proceeds is to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of securities or proceeds. Upon distribution of the securities or proceeds at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
Liability.
By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of securities or proceeds is to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of securities or proceeds. Upon distribution of the securities or proceeds at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
(v) Creditor. If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment of the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
Creditor.
If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment of the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
(d) Private organizations—(1) Corporations and unincorporated associations. A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a corporation or an unincorporated association (either in its own right or in a representative capacity), may be executed by an authorized person on its behalf. The request must be supported by evidence of the person's authority to act.
Private organizations
—(1)
Corporations and unincorporated associations.
A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a corporation or an unincorporated association (either in its own right or in a representative capacity), may be executed by an authorized person on its behalf. The request must be supported by evidence of the person's authority to act.
(2) Partnerships. A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a partnership must be executed by a general partner.
Partnerships.
A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a partnership must be executed by a general partner.
(e) Government entities. A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a State, county, city, school district, or other governmental entity, public body or corporation, must be executed by an authorized officer of the entity. The request must be supported by evidence of the officer's authority to act.
Government entities.
A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a State, county, city, school district, or other governmental entity, public body or corporation, must be executed by an authorized officer of the entity. The request must be supported by evidence of the officer's authority to act.
(f) Public officers. A transaction request involving a security registered in the title of a public officer must be executed by the officer. The request must be supported by evidence of incumbency.
Public officers.
A transaction request involving a security registered in the title of a public officer must be executed by the officer. The request must be supported by evidence of incumbency.
(g) Attorneys-in-fact. A transaction request made by an attorney-in-fact must be accompanied by the original power of attorney or a properly authenticated copy. A power of attorney must be executed in the presence of a notary public or a certifying individual. See § 357.31. The power of attorney will not be accepted if it was executed more than two (2) years before the date the transaction request was executed, unless the power provides that the authority of the attorney-in-fact continues notwithstanding the incapacity of the principal. If two or more attorneys-in-fact are named, all must execute the transaction request unless the power authorizes fewer than all to act. A transaction request executed by an attorney-in-fact seeking transfer of a security to the attorney-in-fact will not be accepted unless expressly authorized by the document appointing the attorney-in-fact.
Attorneys-in-fact.
A transaction request made by an attorney-in-fact must be accompanied by the original power of attorney or a properly authenticated copy. A power of attorney must be executed in the presence of a notary public or a certifying individual. See § 357.31. The power of attorney will not be accepted if it was executed more than two (2) years before the date the transaction request was executed, unless the power provides that the authority of the attorney-in-fact continues notwithstanding the incapacity of the principal. If two or more attorneys-in-fact are named, all must execute the transaction request unless the power authorizes fewer than all to act. A transaction request executed by an attorney-in-fact seeking transfer of a security to the attorney-in-fact will not be accepted unless expressly authorized by the document appointing the attorney-in-fact.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0068)
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986; 51 FR 18884, May 23, 1986, as amended at 70 FR 57431, Sept. 30, 2006]]

§ 357.29   Time required for processing transaction request.

For purposes of a transaction request affecting payment instructions with respect to a security, a proper request must be received not less than ten (10) business days preceding the next payment date. If a transaction request is received less than ten (10) business days preceding a payment date, the Department may in its discretion act on such request if sufficient time remains for processing. If a transaction request is received too late for completion of the requested transaction, the transaction request will be acted upon with respect to future payments only.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0068)
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, as amended at 62 FR 18694, Apr. 16, 1997]]

§ 357.30   Cases of delay or suspension of payment.

If evidence required by the Department in support of a transaction request is not received by the Department at least ten (10) business days before the maturity date of the security, or if payment at maturity has been suspended pursuant to 31 CFR 370.10, in cases of reinvestment, the Department will redeem the security and hold the redemption proceeds in the same form of registration as the security redeemed, pending further disposition. No other interest shall accrue or be paid on such proceeds after the security is redeemed.
[[64 FR 40487, July 26, 1999]]

§ 357.31   Certifying individuals.

(a) General. The following individuals may certify signatures on transaction request forms:
General.
The following individuals may certify signatures on transaction request forms:
(1) Officers and employees of depository institutions, corporate central credit unions, and institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs who have been authorized:
(i) Generally to bind their respective institutions by their acts;
(ii) Unqualifiedly to guarantee signatures to assignments of securities; or
(iii) To certify assignments of securities.
(2) Officers and authorized employees of Federal Reserve Banks.
(3) Officers of Federal Land Banks, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks and Banks for Cooperatives, the Central Bank for Cooperatives, and Federal Home Loan Banks.
(4) Commissioned officers and warrant officers of the Armed Forces of the United States but only with respect to signatures executed by Armed Forces personnel, civilian field employees, and members of their families.
(5) Such other persons as the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service or his designee may authorize.
(b) Foreign countries. The following individuals are authorized to certify signatures on transaction request forms executed in a foreign country:
Foreign countries.
The following individuals are authorized to certify signatures on transaction request forms executed in a foreign country:
(1) United States diplomatic or consular officials.
(2) Managers and officers of foreign branches of depository institutions and institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs.
(3) Notaries public and other officers authorized to administer oaths, provided their official position and authority are certified by a United States diplomatic or consular official under seal of the office.
(c) Duties and liabilities of certifying individuals—(1) General. Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a certifying individual shall require that the transaction request form be signed in the certifying individual's presence after he or she has established the identity of the person seeking the certification. An employee who is not an officer should insert the words “Authorized signature” in the space provided for the title. A certifying individual and the organization for which he or she is acting are jointly and severally liable for any loss the United States may incur as a result of the individual's negligence in making the certification.
Duties and liabilities of certifying individuals
—(1)
General.
Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a certifying individual shall require that the transaction request form be signed in the certifying individual's presence after he or she has established the identity of the person seeking the certification. An employee who is not an officer should insert the words “Authorized signature” in the space provided for the title. A certifying individual and the organization for which he or she is acting are jointly and severally liable for any loss the United States may incur as a result of the individual's negligence in making the certification.
(2) Signature guaranteed. The transaction request form need not be executed in the presence of a certifying individual if he or she unqualifiedly guarantees the signature, in which case the certifying individual shall, after the signature, add the following endorsement: “Signature guaranteed, First National Bank of Smithville, Smithville, NH, by A.B. Doe, President”, and add the date. In guaranteeing a signature, the certifying individual and the organization for which he or she is acting warrant to the Department that the signature is genuine and that the signer had the legal capacity to execute the transaction request.
Signature guaranteed.
The transaction request form need not be executed in the presence of a certifying individual if he or she unqualifiedly guarantees the signature, in which case the certifying individual shall, after the signature, add the following endorsement: “Signature guaranteed, First National Bank of Smithville, Smithville, NH, by A.B. Doe, President”, and add the date. In guaranteeing a signature, the certifying individual and the organization for which he or she is acting warrant to the Department that the signature is genuine and that the signer had the legal capacity to execute the transaction request.
(3) Absence of signature guaranteed by depository institution. A transaction request form need not be actually signed by the owner in any case where a certifying individual associated with a depository institution has placed an endorsement on the form reading substantially as follows: “Absence of signature by owner and validity of transaction guaranteed, Second State Bank of Jonesville, Jonesville, NC, by B.R. Butler, Vice President”. The endorsement should be dated, and the seal of the institution should be added. This form of endorsement is an unconditional guarantee to the Department that the institution is acting for the owner under proper authorization.
Absence of signature guaranteed by depository institution.
A transaction request form need not be actually signed by the owner in any case where a certifying individual associated with a depository institution has placed an endorsement on the form reading substantially as follows: “Absence of signature by owner and validity of transaction guaranteed, Second State Bank of Jonesville, Jonesville, NC, by B.R. Butler, Vice President”. The endorsement should be dated, and the seal of the institution should be added. This form of endorsement is an unconditional guarantee to the Department that the institution is acting for the owner under proper authorization.
(d) Evidence of certifying individual's authority. The authority of a certifying individual to act is evidenced by affixing to the certification the following:
Evidence of certifying individual's authority.
The authority of a certifying individual to act is evidenced by affixing to the certification the following:
(1) Officers and employees of depository institutions. The institution's seal or signature guarantee stamp; if the institution is an authorized paying agent for U.S. Savings Bonds, a legible imprint of the paying agent's stamp; or, if the institution is a member of the Security Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), a legible imprint of the STAMP signature guarantee stamp.
Officers and employees of depository institutions.
The institution's seal or signature guarantee stamp; if the institution is an authorized paying agent for U.S. Savings Bonds, a legible imprint of the paying agent's stamp; or, if the institution is a member of the Security Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), a legible imprint of the STAMP signature guarantee stamp.
(2) Officers and authorized employees of institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs. A legible imprint of the program's signature guarantee stamp, e.g., the STAMP, SEMP, MSP stamp for members of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program, or the New York Stock Exchange Incorporated Medallion Signature Program, respectively.
Officers and authorized employees of institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs.
A legible imprint of the program's signature guarantee stamp, e.g., the STAMP, SEMP, MSP stamp for members of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program, or the New York Stock Exchange Incorporated Medallion Signature Program, respectively.
(3) Officers and authorized employees of Federal Reserve Banks. Whatever is prescribed in procedures established by the Department.
Officers and authorized employees of Federal Reserve Banks.
Whatever is prescribed in procedures established by the Department.
(4) Officers and employees of corporate central credit unions and other entities listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The entity's seal.
Officers and employees of corporate central credit unions and other entities listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
The entity's seal.
(5) Notaries public, diplomatic or consular officials. The official seal or stamp of the office. If the certifying individual has no seal or stamp, then the official's position must be certified by some other authorized individual, under seal or stamp, or otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the Department.
Notaries public, diplomatic or consular officials.
The official seal or stamp of the office. If the certifying individual has no seal or stamp, then the official's position must be certified by some other authorized individual, under seal or stamp, or otherwise proved to the satisfaction of the Department.
(6) Commissioned or warrant officers of the United States Armed Forces. A statement which sets out the officer's rank and the fact that the person executing the transaction request is one whose signature the officer is authorized to certify under the regulations in this part.
Commissioned or warrant officers of the United States Armed Forces.
A statement which sets out the officer's rank and the fact that the person executing the transaction request is one whose signature the officer is authorized to certify under the regulations in this part.
(7) Such other persons as the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service or his designee may authorize. The evidence specified by the Commissioner or his designee.
Such other persons as the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service or his designee may authorize.
The evidence specified by the Commissioner or his designee.
(e) Interested persons not to act as certifying individual. Neither the transferor, the transferee, nor any person having an interest in a security involved in the transaction may act as a certifying individual. However, an authorized officer or employee of a depository institution or of an institution that is a member of a Treasury-recognized signature guarantee program may act as a certifying individual on a transaction request for transfer of a security to the institution, or any request executed by another individual on behalf of the institution.
Interested persons not to act as certifying individual.
Neither the transferor, the transferee, nor any person having an interest in a security involved in the transaction may act as a certifying individual. However, an authorized officer or employee of a depository institution or of an institution that is a member of a Treasury-recognized signature guarantee program may act as a certifying individual on a transaction request for transfer of a security to the institution, or any request executed by another individual on behalf of the institution.
[[59 FR 59038, Nov. 15, 1994]]

§ 357.32   Submission of transaction requests; further information.

Transaction requests and requests for forms and information may be submitted to any Federal Reserve Bank currently serving as a Treasury Retail Securities Site or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Legacy Treasury Direct®, P.O. Box 426, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-0426. A list of the Federal Reserve Banks currently serving as Treasury Retail Securities Sites is available upon request to the Bureau. The Federal Reserve Banks, as fiscal agents of the United States, are authorized to perform such functions as may be delegated to them by the Department in order to carry out the provisions of this part.
[[51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986, as amended at 76 FR 18064, Apr. 1, 2011]]

Subpart D—Additional Provisions


§ 357.40   Additional requirements.

In any case or any class of cases arising under these regulations, the Secretary of the Treasury (“Secretary”) may require such additional evidence and a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, as may in the judgment of the Secretary be necessary for the protection of the interests of the United States.

§ 357.41   Waiver of regulations.

The Secretary reserves the right, in the Secretary's discretion, to waive any provision(s) of these regulations in any case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person(s) of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not adversely affect any substantial existing rights, and the Secretary is satisfied that such action will not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
[[61 FR 43630, Aug. 23, 1996]]

§ 357.42   Liability of Department and Federal Reserve Banks.

The Department and the Federal Reserve Banks may rely on the information provided in a tender, transaction request form, or Transfer Message, and are not required to verify the information. The Department and the Federal Reserve Banks shall not be liable for any action taken in accordance with the information set out in a tender, transaction request form, or Transfer Message, or evidence submitted in support thereof.
[[61 FR 43630, Aug. 23, 1996]]

§ 357.43   Liability for transfers to and from Legacy Treasury Direct ®.

A depository institution or other entity that transfers to, or receives, a security from Legacy Treasury Direct is deemed to be acting as agent for its customer and agrees thereby to indemnify the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks for any claim, liability, or loss resulting from the transaction.

§ 357.44   [Reserved]


§ 357.45   Supplements, amendments, or revisions.

The Secretary may, at any time, prescribe additional supplemental, amendatory or revised regulations with respect to securities, including charges and fees for the maintenance and servicing of securities in book-entry form.

Appendix A to Part 357—Discussion of Final Rule

Background
Twenty-four written comments were received to the notice of proposed rulemaking from various sources, including Federal agencies, trade associations, as well as financial and commercial investment institutions. With the exception of one bank, all commentators endorsed the concept of a certificateless security.
The grouping and identification of the comments received have been made on a section-by-section basis, with an explanation of the action taken with respect thereto. As circumstances necessitated the publication of the rule in two segments, in order to make each part more understandable, certain definitions, such as those for “Department” and “securities”, have appeared in the proposed rule for both Legacy Treasury Direct ® and TRADES, and were slightly modified in the proposed rules on TRADES. Because these modifications represent non-substantive clarifications, and to avoid confusion as between the two portions of the rules, the definitions as used in TRADES have been adopted.
Section-By-Section Analysis
Section 357.21 Registration.
The forms of registrations provided for securities to be held in Legacy Treasury Direct have different legal effect from those currently provided for in the case of definitive Treasury securities and for the Treasury's book-entry Treasury bill system. A comment was received that, as a result, this could lead to some confusion, and that the Treasury bill forms of recordation currently offered should be changed, particularly since Treasury bills will be phased into Legacy Treasury Direct gradually. The Bureau believes that the benefits of uniformity of rights and interests that Legacy Treasury Direct investors will derive far outweigh any possible confusion. As for confusion with the current Treasury bill book-entry system, given the fact that Treasury bills have a term of not more than a year, it is believed that the problem, if any, will be short-lived.
Given the importance of the change that Legacy Treasury Direct provides as to registration, the discussion thereof that accompanied the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is re-published below.
“Forms of Registration. The proposed rule provides the investor with a variety of registration options. They are essentially similar to those provided for registered, definitive marketable Treasury securities. Investors should be particularly aware that, where the security is held in the names of two individuals, the registration chosen may establish rights of survivorship.
Forms of Registration.
The proposed rule provides the investor with a variety of registration options. They are essentially similar to those provided for registered, definitive marketable Treasury securities. Investors should be particularly aware that, where the security is held in the names of two individuals, the registration chosen may establish rights of survivorship.
“The reason for establishing the rights of ownership for securities held in Legacy Treasury Direct is that it will give investors the assurance that the forms of registration they select will establish conclusively the rights to their book-entry securities. It will also serve to eliminate some of the uncertainties, as well as possible conflicts, between the varying laws of the several States.
“A Federal rule of ownership is being adopted by the Treasury for Legacy Treasury Direct securities. This regulatory approach is consistent with the one previously taken in the case of United States Savings Bonds. It will have the effect of overriding inconsistent State laws. See, Free v. Bland, 369 U.S. 663 (1962).
Free v. Bland,
369 U.S. 663 (1962).
“In the case of individuals (who are likely to be by far the majority of holders of securities in Legacy Treasury Direct), the options offered will permit virtually all the preferred forms of ownership. At the investor's option, it will be possible to provide for the disposition of the securities upon death through rights of survivorship.
“Coownership registration. One option is the coownership form of registration, i.e., “A or B.” Unlike the current Treasury bill book-entry system being administered by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a security held in Legacy Treasury Direct registered in this form will be transferable upon the written request of either coowner. Other changes in the account may also be made upon the request of either party. While this form of registration will facilitate the receipt of payments and provide ease in conducting transactions, care should obviously be exercised in designating a coowner.
Coownership registration.
One option is the coownership form of registration, i.e., “A or B.” Unlike the current Treasury bill book-entry system being administered by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a security held in Legacy Treasury Direct registered in this form will be transferable upon the written request of either coowner. Other changes in the account may also be made upon the request of either party. While this form of registration will facilitate the receipt of payments and provide ease in conducting transactions, care should obviously be exercised in designating a coowner.
“Joint ownership. For those who would prefer to have the transferability of a security held in two names contingent upon the request of both, the joint form of registration will be appropriate. This form of registration, i.e., “A and B, with [without] the right of survivorship,” will require the agreement of both parties to conduct any authorized transaction.
Joint ownership.
For those who would prefer to have the transferability of a security held in two names contingent upon the request of both, the joint form of registration will be appropriate. This form of registration, i.e., “A and B, with [without] the right of survivorship,” will require the agreement of both parties to conduct any authorized transaction.
“Beneficiary form. The beneficiary form, i.e., “A payable on death to (POD) B,” will permit the owner to have sole control of the account during his/her lifetime, but in the event of death, the account will pass by right of survivorship to the beneficiary.”
Beneficiary form.
The beneficiary form, i.e., “A payable on death to (POD) B,” will permit the owner to have sole control of the account during his/her lifetime, but in the event of death, the account will pass by right of survivorship to the beneficiary.”
One commentator questioned the “natural guardian” and “voluntary guardian” forms of registration provided in the regulations, pointing out that financial institutions are reluctant to establish an account in the name of a natural guardian of a minor because of the uncertainties as to who might be entitled to the funds on the death of the natural guardian or minor, or when the minor reached majority. It was mentioned that a bank would be reluctant to open an account in the name of a voluntary guardian, or to release funds from an existing account to a voluntary guardian because of the potential risk in the event of a claim from a court-appointed guardian. It seems apparent that the comment was prompted by the provision that appeared in the proposed rule that the account held in Legacy Treasury Direct and the deposit account to which payments are to be directed should be in the same form. As hereafter pointed out in the discussion under the payment section, this is not a requirement.
While parents are universally recognized as the natural guardians of the person of minors, they have generally not been recognized as entitled to control the estates of these minors, except perhaps in the case of small amounts. Traditionally, the guardian of the estate of a minor involves judicial appointment and supervision. In order to provide a means of dealing with the problem of disposing of securities inadvertently registered in the name of minors without requiring the appointment of a legal guardian and to provide a means for investing funds of a minor, which did not technically qualify for investment under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act, the Department decided to provide recognition for natural guardians.
The voluntary guardianship procedure is wholly a creature of the Department's regulations. It was established in recognition of the burden placed on an incompetent's estate and his/her family by requiring the appointment of a legal guardian to receive the interest on, or to redeem securities for, the account of an individual who has become incompetent, at least where the incompetent's estate is relatively modest. This form of registration is not available on original issue and is limited to an aggregate of $20,000 (par amount) of Legacy Treasury Direct securities. The $20,000 limit in connection with the use of the voluntary guardianship procedure is in keeping with the limits used in connection with the summary administration of decedents' estates under the laws of many States.
Section 357.23 Judicial proceedings.
No comments were received regarding the provisions on judicial proceedings. Given their importance, the discussion that accompanied the publication thereof in proposed form is included here.
Judicial proceedings. Under the principle of sovereign immunity, neither the Department nor a Federal Reserve Bank, acting as fiscal agent of the United States, will recognize a court order that attempts to restrain or enjoin the Department or a Federal Reserve Bank from making payment on a security or from disposing of a security in accordance with instructions of the owner as shown on the Department's records.
Judicial proceedings.
Under the principle of sovereign immunity, neither the Department nor a Federal Reserve Bank, acting as fiscal agent of the United States, will recognize a court order that attempts to restrain or enjoin the Department or a Federal Reserve Bank from making payment on a security or from disposing of a security in accordance with instructions of the owner as shown on the Department's records.
“The Department will recognize a final court order affecting ownership rights in Legacy Treasury Direct securities provided that the order is consistent with the provisions of subpart C and the terms and conditions of the security, and the appropriate evidence, as described in § 357.23(c), is supplied to the Department. For example, the Department may recognize final orders arising from divorce or dissolution of marriage, creditor or probate proceedings, or cases involving application of a State slayer's act. The Department will also recognize a transaction request submitted by a person appointed by a court and having authority under an order of a court to dispose of the security or payment with respect thereto, provided conditions similar to those above are met.”
Section 357.25 Security interests.
Legacy Treasury Direct is not designed to reflect or handle the various types of security interests that may arise in connection with a Treasury bond, note or bill. However, the Treasury has from time to time and to a limited extent held in safekeeping, for such agencies as the Customs Service and Immigration and Naturalization Service, Treasury securities submitted in lieu of surety bonds in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9303. While the Federal Reserve Banks handle the majority of such pledges and will continue to do so, as this statute requires the Treasury to accept these Government obligations so pledged, a provision has been added for accepting and holding book-entry securities submitted for such purposes.
Section 357.26 Payments.
(a) General. Most comments focused on the provisions on payments. A key feature of Legacy Treasury Direct will be the making of payments by the direct deposit method (also known as the electronic funds transfer or ACH method). Checks will be issued only under extraordinary circumstances. A number of comments endorsed the concept of payment by direct deposit as an improvement given the difficulties associated with checks.
General.
Most comments focused on the provisions on payments. A key feature of Legacy Treasury Direct will be the making of payments by the direct deposit method (also known as the electronic funds transfer or ACH method). Checks will be issued only under extraordinary circumstances. A number of comments endorsed the concept of payment by direct deposit as an improvement given the difficulties associated with checks.
One comment expressed concern as to who would have the burden of resolving errors in cases where a receiving financial institution fails to properly credit a payment. The Department has concluded that while the direct deposit payment method is not without risks, it is far superior to the use of checks, in terms of the risks, potential losses, and costs. In a case where a receiving institution fails to act in accordance with the instructions given it, the Bureau intends to use its best efforts to assist investors in rectifying the error.
(b) Direct deposit. A number of comments expressed the view that the Legacy Treasury Direct payment system should adopt either the rules governing the direct deposit of Government payments (31 CFR part 210), or the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (“NACHA Rules”), but not separate rules. The final rules have adopted some of the existing practices applicable to commercial ACH payments, but it is not possible for the Department of the Treasury to conform to all of these rules. For example, the Treasury has no authority to indemnify recipients of direct deposit payments, although such indemnification by a sender is contemplated in the NACHA rules and was advocated in several comments. It should also be noted that the rules applicable to Legacy Treasury Direct payments are modeled, to some extent, on the rules for Government direct deposit payments in order to take advantage of the large number of entities that are a part of the Government direct deposit network. See the discussion under paragraph (b)(2). Where there are unique rules applicable to Legacy Treasury Direct, however, they are explained here.
Direct deposit.
A number of comments expressed the view that the Legacy Treasury Direct payment system should adopt either the rules governing the direct deposit of Government payments (31 CFR part 210), or the rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (“NACHA Rules”), but not separate rules. The final rules have adopted some of the existing practices applicable to commercial ACH payments, but it is not possible for the Department of the Treasury to conform to all of these rules. For example, the Treasury has no authority to indemnify recipients of direct deposit payments, although such indemnification by a sender is contemplated in the NACHA rules and was advocated in several comments. It should also be noted that the rules applicable to Legacy Treasury Direct payments are modeled, to some extent, on the rules for Government direct deposit payments in order to take advantage of the large number of entities that are a part of the Government direct deposit network. See the discussion under paragraph (b)(2). Where there are unique rules applicable to Legacy Treasury Direct, however, they are explained here.
Given the variance between the procedures set out in the proposed rules and existing practice, and the increased burdens resulting therefrom, several clearing house associations and financial institutions requested that the implementation of Legacy Treasury Direct be delayed from July 1986 to July 1987. The Treasury is satisfied that the added burdens that would have been imposed on financial institutions to receive Legacy Treasury Direct payments under the proposed rules have been effectively eliminated in the final rule. Thus, Treasury plans to implement the system on or about the original target date. The final rules are being published, however, in advance of actual implementation so as to give financial institutions an opportunity to make whatever remaining, minor procedural changes as may be necessary.
(b)(1) Information on deposit account at financial institution. The proposed regulations provided that the owner of a security in Legacy Treasury Direct, or in the case of ownership by two individuals, the first-named owner, must be an owner of, and so designated, on the account at the receiving financial institution. The regulations also provided that in any case in which a security is held jointly or with right of survivorship, the account at the financial institution should be established in a form that assures that the rights of each joint owner or survivor will be preserved.
Information on deposit account at financial institution.
The proposed regulations provided that the owner of a security in Legacy Treasury Direct, or in the case of ownership by two individuals, the first-named owner, must be an owner of, and so designated, on the account at the receiving financial institution. The regulations also provided that in any case in which a security is held jointly or with right of survivorship, the account at the financial institution should be established in a form that assures that the rights of each joint owner or survivor will be preserved.
The rule requiring the naming of the first-named owner on the receiving financial institution account was based on tax reporting considerations. It has now been determined that the first-named security owner need not be named on the receiving deposit account.
The rule relating to establishment of the receiving account in joint ownership cases in the same form as the registration of the security was intended to be a notice to investors of a potential problem, rather than a requirement. In cases where an investor intends a beneficiary, joint owner or coowner to receive securities after the investor's death, this intention may be defeated if the recipient is not also named on the receiving deposit account. It is up to the investor to examine his or her particular circumstances and determine whether the form in which the deposit account will be held is satisfactory. This matter has been clarified in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of the final rule. Except for the restriction described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) (see below), the Treasury does not intend to establish any limitations on how the receiving deposit account is held.
Several comments addressed the issue of the registration of the security versus the title of the deposit account. Two comments pointed out that if the deposit account must be in the same form as the registration of the security, then existing traditional forms of ownership for bank accounts, which do not include all the forms of registration for securities held in Legacy Treasury Direct, would not suffice. Concerns were also expressed that with multiple forms of ownership, financial institutions could become involved in disputes with investors. As noted above, there is no requirement that the Legacy Treasury Direct account and the deposit account be identical. The responsibility to choose the title of the deposit account rests with the investor.
Another comment objected to the rule that the first-named security owner be named on the receiving deposit account because the rule would eliminate the possibility of payment to an account at a financial institution in the name of a mutual fund, security dealer, or insurance company. Although the change in the tax reporting rule described above permits payment to such accounts, as well as to trust accounts, since it appears that there is a question as to the capability of some receiving institutions to handle such payments, investors are strongly urged to consult their financial institution before requesting such payment arrangements. See paragraph (b)(1)(iii).
It should be emphasized that any payments that must be made by check will be made in the form in which the Legacy Treasury Direct account is held, which may be different than the form of the deposit account. Investors should be aware that this may result in checks being issued, and thus payment being made, in a form different than they intended the direct deposit payments to be made. For example, if Investor A purchases a security in his or her name alone with instructions that payments be directed to a financial institution for the account of a money market fund, any checks that must be issued will be drawn in the name of Investor A. This could happen if Investor A furnishes erroneous payment instructions and the problem cannot be resolved before a payment date, in which case a check would be issued.
The one restriction on the form of the deposit account that appears in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of the final regulations is a rule that where the Legacy Treasury Direct account is in the name of individual(s), and the receiving deposit account is also in the name of individual(s), one of the individuals on the Legacy Treasury Direct account must be named on the deposit account. This rule is intended to provide a means to determine the disposition of the payment, if necessary. The Treasury does not expect financial institutions to monitor this rule.
Provision has been made in paragraph (b)(1)(vii) to permit financial institutions to request “mass changes” of deposit account numbers without the submission of individual requests from investors to Legacy Treasury Direct. This procedure is intended for use where an institution changes all or an entire group of its account numbers, typically as a result of an organizational change. Legacy Treasury Direct will honor requests from a financial institution to change deposit account numbers under such circumstances, with the understanding that the institution agrees to indemnify the Treasury and the security owners for any losses resulting from errors made by the institution. If the institutions does not wish to use the “mass change” procedure, then the change in account number must be requested by the investor, using the authorized transaction request form. See § 357.28.
Some institutions voiced concern in general about investor errors in furnishing the Legacy Treasury Direct a deposit account number and the financial institution's routing number. Although the Treasury plans to provide as much assistance to investors as possible, the investor must bear the responsibility for securing accurate payment information. Investors are urged to consult with their receiving institution to verify the accuracy of the payment information, since neither the Treasury nor the receiving financial institution would be responsible for payment errors resulting from erroneous information provided by investors.
The proposed rule provided in § 357.26(b)(1)(iii) that the designation of a financial institution by a security owner to receive payments from Legacy Treasury Direct would constitute the appointment of the financial institution as agent for the owner for the receipt of payments. The crediting of a payment to the financial institution for deposit to the owner's account, in accordance with the owner's instructions, would discharge the United States of any further responsibility for the payment. One comment noted that, in contrast, the rule in 31 CFR 210.13 for Federal recurring payments is that the United States is not acquitted until the payment is credited to the account of the recipient on the books of a financial institution.
Although, in principle, the same rules should apply to all Government payments, the proposed Legacy Treasury Direct rule has been retained in the final regulations on the basis of the major differences in the procedures to be used in Legacy Treasury Direct. Most significantly, the Treasury will not be securing any written verification (i.e., an enrollment form) from a financial institution as to the accuracy of the deposit account number and other payment information, as is now the practice in the case of payments under 31 CFR part 210. Under these circumstances, the Treasury cannot, in effect, guarantee that a payment will be credited by a financial institution to the correct account. It should also be noted that this rule on acquittance of the United States is consistent with the provision in § 357.10(c) of the proposed regulations on TRADES. In practice, however, the Treasury plans to participate actively in seeking to locate and recover any payments that have been misdirected.
i.e.
, an enrollment form) from a financial institution as to the accuracy of the deposit account number and other payment information, as is now the practice in the case of payments under 31 CFR part 210. Under these circumstances, the Treasury cannot, in effect, guarantee that a payment will be credited by a financial institution to the correct account. It should also be noted that this rule on acquittance of the United States is consistent with the provision in § 357.10(c) of the proposed regulations on TRADES. In practice, however, the Treasury plans to participate actively in seeking to locate and recover any payments that have been misdirected.
(b)(2) Agreement of financial institution. The proposed rule provided, in § 357.26(b)(2), that a financial institution which has agreed to accept payments under 31 CFR part 210 shall be deemed to have agreed to accept payments from Legacy Treasury Direct. The rule further provided that an institution could not be designated to receive Legacy Treasury Direct payments unless it had agreed to accept direct deposit payments under 31 CFR part 210.
Agreement of financial institution.
The proposed rule provided, in § 357.26(b)(2), that a financial institution which has agreed to accept payments under 31 CFR part 210 shall be deemed to have agreed to accept payments from Legacy Treasury Direct. The rule further provided that an institution could not be designated to receive Legacy Treasury Direct payments unless it had agreed to accept direct deposit payments under 31 CFR part 210.
One financial institution commented that a receiving institution that has already agreed to accept part 210 payments should have the choice as to whether to accept payments from Legacy Treasury Direct. The basis for this comment was the perception that the receipt of Legacy Treasury Direct payments would require the implementation of special procedures by the financial institution and expose it to additional risks. As explained earlier, the Treasury has significantly modified the procedures and reduced the requirements imposed upon a financial institution in order to receive Legacy Treasury Direct payments, and decreased as well the risks an institution will incur in the receipt of such payments. Thus, the proposed rule on eligibility of receiving institutions has been retained in the final rule in essentially the same form.
Two other comments were made to the effect that the category of institutions receiving payments should be broadened. In deciding to authorize payments to all institutions receiving part 210 payments, the Treasury considered the fact that many more institutions are designated endpoints for Government (direct deposit) payments than for commercial ACH payments. In order to afford investors the widest choice of recipient institutions, all institutions that had agreed to accept part 210 payments were designated as authorized recipients. Treasury has now broadened the rule further to also authorize those financial institutions that are willing to agree to accept part 210 payments in the future. This rule will permit investors to designate institutions that are not now receiving Government direct deposit payments as the recipients of their Legacy Treasury Direct payments if the institutions make appropriate arrangements with the Federal Reserve Bank of their District.
(b)(3) Pre-notification. A significant feature of the Legacy Treasury Direct payment procedure will be the use of a pre-notification message sent to the receiving financial institution in advance of the first payment. This procedure, already in use for commercial ACH payments, alerts the institution that a payment will be made and provides an opportunity for verification of the accuracy of the account information.
Pre-notification.
A significant feature of the Legacy Treasury Direct payment procedure will be the use of a pre-notification message sent to the receiving financial institution in advance of the first payment. This procedure, already in use for commercial ACH payments, alerts the institution that a payment will be made and provides an opportunity for verification of the accuracy of the account information.
The proposed regulations provided that the financial institution would be required to reject the pre-notification message within four calendar days after the date of receipt if the information contained in the message did not agree with the records of the institution or if for any other reason the institution would not be able to credit the payment. The rules also stated that a failure to reject the message within the specified time period would be deemed an acceptance of the pre-notification and a warranty that the information in the message was accurate.
Because there was some confusion over when the pre-notification message woud be sent, the final rules clarify, in paragraph (b)(3)(i), that in most cases, this will occur shortly after establishment of a Legacy Treasury Direct account. The Treasury has under consideration a system change that would permit a second pre-notification to be sent closer to the time of the payment if the first payment is to occur a substantial length of time after account establishment.
One of the items of information contained in a pre-notification message is the name the investor has indicated appears on the deposit account. Comments were received that existing procedures and software do not permit automatic verification of the account name. Although there is apparently some variation in practice, and some institutions undertake to verify the account name information manually, the Treasury has decided to drop the account name verification requirement in the final rules. This means that under paragraph (b)(3)(ii), a financial institution need only verify the account number and type designations on the pre-notification message. However, the Treasury urges institutions which are able to verify account names to do so and encourages the development of software that would have this capability.
A number of comments urged that the four-day period provided for an institution to reject a pre-notification message be lengthened. After consideration of the various alternatives proposed, the Treasury has concluded that an eight-day period will meet the needs of most institutions. See paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of the final rule. In responding to a pre-notification message, an institution may use the NACHA's “notification of change” procedure, standardized automated rejection codes, or any other similar standard procedure. Upon receipt of such notification, the Treasury will either make the necessary changes in the Legacy Treasury Direct account or contact the investor, depending on the circumstances.
One commentator objected to the warranty by the receiving institution as to the accuracy of the pre-notification information, particularly in view of the manual verification or changes in procedures that would be required, and the resulting possibility of error. As previously noted, the requirement to verify an account name has been eliminated. In addition, language has been added to make it clear that the verification is limited to the time of pre-notification. The Treasury is of the view that the warranty is a useful concept in encouraging institutions to respond to pre-notification messages and will benefit all concerned by increasing the likelihood that payments will be made accurately and to the appropriate party.
(b)(5) Responsibility of financial institution. The proposed regulations provided, in § 357.26(b)(5)(ii), that a financial institution that receives a Legacy Treasury Direct payment on behalf of a customer would be required to promptly notify the Treasury when it has made a change in the status or ownership of the customer's deposit account, such as the deletion of the first-named owner of the security from the title of the account, or when the institution is on notice of the death or incompetency of the owner of the deposit account.
Responsibility of financial institution.
The proposed regulations provided, in § 357.26(b)(5)(ii), that a financial institution that receives a Legacy Treasury Direct payment on behalf of a customer would be required to promptly notify the Treasury when it has made a change in the status or ownership of the customer's deposit account, such as the deletion of the first-named owner of the security from the title of the account, or when the institution is on notice of the death or incompetency of the owner of the deposit account.
Several financial institutions objected to this requirement on the grounds that it would be burdensome and would require the development of new procedures to monitor the changes in deposit accounts. Specifically, several institutions indicated they would be unable to relate the receipt of Legacy Treasury Direct payments, which would be handled in a centralized area of the institution, to the changes being made in a deposit account, which are handled in another operational area of the institution. These institutions said they would not necessarily be aware of who is the first-named owner of the security in Legacy Treasury Direct, and that more responsibility should be placed on the security owner in reporting changes.
In response to these comments, the Treasury has narrowed the notification rule, in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of the final rule, to require a financial institution to notify Legacy Treasury Direct only in cases where it is on notice of the death or legal incapacity of an individual named on the deposit account, or where it is on notice of the dissolution of a corporation named in the deposit account. Upon receipt of notice by the area of the institution that receives credit payments, the institution will be required to return any Legacy Treasury Direct payments received thereafter.
(b)(6) Payments in error/duplicate payments. The proposed regulations, in § 357.26(b)(6), set out rules describing the procedure that would be followed in cases where the Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank has made a duplicate payment or a payment in error. First, the financial institution to which the payment was directed would be provided with a notice asking for the return of the amount of the payment remaining in the deposit account. If the financial institution were unable to return any part of the payment, it would be required to notify the Treasury or its Federal Reserve Bank, and provide the names and addresses of the persons who withdrew funds from the deposit account after the date of the duplicate payment or the payment in error. If the financial institution did not respond to the notice within 30 days, the financial institution's account at its Federal Reserve Bank could be debited in the amount of the duplicate or improper payment.
Payments in error/duplicate payments.
The proposed regulations, in § 357.26(b)(6), set out rules describing the procedure that would be followed in cases where the Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank has made a duplicate payment or a payment in error. First, the financial institution to which the payment was directed would be provided with a notice asking for the return of the amount of the payment remaining in the deposit account. If the financial institution were unable to return any part of the payment, it would be required to notify the Treasury or its Federal Reserve Bank, and provide the names and addresses of the persons who withdrew funds from the deposit account after the date of the duplicate payment or the payment in error. If the financial institution did not respond to the notice within 30 days, the financial institution's account at its Federal Reserve Bank could be debited in the amount of the duplicate or improper payment.
Several institutions raised objections about various aspects of the above procedures. One stated that 30 days was an insufficient time to respond and urged conformity with the rules in 31 CFR part 210 permitting a 60-day response time. Some objected to furnishing information about the persons who withdrew money from an account. Several objected in principle to the provision authorizing the debiting of their accounts. Several comments indicated that if a payment is returned by a financial institution using an automated payment reversal procedure, then only the full amount of the payment (not a partial amount) can be reversed.
In the final rule, the Treasury has clarified the procedures. The requirement to provide the names of persons who withdrew funds from an account has been changed. In paragraph (b)(6)(i), financial institutions are asked to provide only such information as they have about the matter. The debiting of an institution's account at a Federal Reserve Bank is intended to be simply a last resort if the institution fails totally to respond to the notice of a duplicate payment or payment made in error. See paragraph (b)(6)(iii). The time provided for response to this notice has been lengthened to 60 days.
The final rule has also been clarified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) to provide that the amount that should be returned is an amount equal to the payment. The Treasury reserves the right, however, to request the return by other than automated means of a partial amount of a payment made in error. It is anticipated that such a procedure would occur only if the notice of a payment made in error is not issued immediately after the payment was made.
(d) Handling of payments by Federal Reserve Banks. Some of the comments raised a question about the liability of the Federal Reserve Banks in making payments. The proposed rule, in § 357.26(d)(2), provided that each Federal Reserve Bank would be responsible only to the Department and would not be liable to any other party for any loss resulting from its handling of payments. This rule was taken from the existing regulations in 31 CFR part 210 (see § 210.3(f)), and is simply a restatement of existing law.
Handling of payments by Federal Reserve Banks.
Some of the comments raised a question about the liability of the Federal Reserve Banks in making payments. The proposed rule, in § 357.26(d)(2), provided that each Federal Reserve Bank would be responsible only to the Department and would not be liable to any other party for any loss resulting from its handling of payments. This rule was taken from the existing regulations in 31 CFR part 210 (see § 210.3(f)), and is simply a restatement of existing law.
In making payments, the Federal Reserve Banks are acting in the capacity as fiscal agents of the United States, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 391. They are not acting in an individual (banking) capacity. If a Federal Reserve Bank misdirects a payment contrary to instructions provided by the investor, the United States, as principal, may remain liable to the investor for the payment. The United States could seek to recover any loss from its agent, the Fedeal Reserve Bank. However, because the proposed rule simply stated a legal conclusion and tended to create the impression that the rule was broader than intended, it has been omitted from the final regulations.
Section 357.31 Certifying individuals.
For clarity, the warranties which accompany the use of a “Signature guaranteed” stamp have been set out.
Section 357.42 Preservation of existing rights.
This section has been deleted. The same subject-matter will be covered in § 357.1, as finally adopted.
Section 357.43 Liability of Department and Federal Reserve Banks.
This section was published as § 357.42 in the notice of proposed rulemaking for TRADES. The final version will be published after all the comments on the rulemaking for TRADES have been reviewed and considered.
Section 357.46 Supplements, amendments, or revisions.
Provision for “charges and fees for services and maintenance of book-entry Treasury securities” has been added in the event circumstances should dictate their imposition.
[[51 FR 18260, May 16, 1986; 51 FR 18884, May 23, 1986]]

Appendix B to Part 357—TRADES Commentary

Introduction
The adoption of regulations for the Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System (“TRADES”) is the culmination of a multi-year Treasury process of moving from issuing securities only in definitive (physical/certificated/paper) form to issuing securities exclusively in book-entry form. The TRADES regulations provide the legal framework for all commercially-maintained Treasury book-entry securities. For a more detailed explanation of the procedural and legal development of book-entry and the TRADES regulations, see the preamble to the rule proposed March 4, 1996 (61 FR 8420), as well as the earlier proposals cited therein 51 FR 8846 (March 14, 1986); 51 FR 43027 (November 28, 1986); 57 FR 12244 (April 9, 1992).
Comparison of TRADES and Legacy Treasury Direct
A person may hold interests in Treasury book-entry securities either in TRADES 
1
 or Legacy Treasury Direct. The following summarizes the major differences between the two systems.
1
or Legacy Treasury Direct. The following summarizes the major differences between the two systems.
1 In TRADES a Person's interest in a Treasury book-entry security is a Security Entitlement, as described in TRADES. A Participant's interest in a marketable Treasury book-entry security also is a Security Entitlement. A Participant's Security Entitlement is different than a Security Entitlement as described in Revised Article 8, with respect to the Participant's rights against the issuer. A non-Participant's Security Entitlement is described in Revised Article 8.
1
In TRADES a Person's interest in a Treasury book-entry security is a Security Entitlement, as described in TRADES. A Participant's interest in a marketable Treasury book-entry security also is a Security Entitlement. A Participant's Security Entitlement is different than a Security Entitlement as described in Revised Article 8, with respect to the Participant's rights against the issuer. A non-Participant's Security Entitlement is described in Revised Article 8.
Persons holding Treasury book-entry securities in TRADES hold their interests in such securities in a tiered system of ownership accounts. In TRADES, Treasury, through its fiscal agents, the Federal Reserve Banks, recognizes the identity only of Participants (persons with a direct account relationship with a Federal Reserve Bank). While Participants may be beneficial owners of interests in Treasury book-entry securities, there are many beneficial owners of such interests that are not Participants. Such beneficial owners hold their interests through one or more Securities Intermediaries such as banks, brokerage firms or securities clearing organizations.
In TRADES, the rights of non-Participant beneficial owners may be exercised only through their Securities Intermediaries. Neither Treasury nor the Federal Reserve Banks have any obligation to a non-Participant beneficial owner of an interest in a Treasury book-entry security. Two examples illustrate this principle. First, except where a pledge has been recorded directly on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 357.12(c)(1), Federal Reserve Banks, as Treasury's fiscal agents, will act only on instructions of the Participant in whose Securities Account the Treasury book-entry security is maintained in recording transfers of an interest in a Treasury book-entry security. A beneficial owner of the interest that is a non-Participant has no ability to direct a transfer on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank. Second, Treasury discharges its payment obligation with respect to a Treasury book-entry security when payment is credited to a Participant's account or paid in accordance with the Participant's instructions. Neither Treasury nor a Federal Reserve Bank has any payment obligation to a non-Participant beneficial owner of an interest in a Treasury book-entry security. A non-Participant beneficial owner receives its payment when its Securities Intermediary credits the owner's account.
Persons holding Treasury book-entry securities in Legacy Treasury Direct, on the other hand, hold their securities accounts on records maintained by Treasury through its fiscal agents, the Federal Reserve Banks. The primary characteristic of Legacy Treasury Direct is a direct account relationship between the beneficial owner of a Treasury book-entry security and Treasury. In Legacy Treasury Direct, Treasury discharges its payment obligation when payment is credited to the depository institution specified by the beneficial owner of the Treasury book-entry security, paid directly to the beneficial owner by check, or paid in accordance with the beneficial owner's instructions. Unlike TRADES, Legacy Treasury Direct does not provide a mechanism for the exchange of cash to settle a secondary market transaction, nor are pledges of Treasury book-entry securities held in Legacy Treasury Direct generally recognized. Accordingly, Legacy Treasury Direct is suited for persons who plan to hold their Treasury securities until maturity, and provides an alternative for investors who are concerned about holding securities through intermediaries and who do not wish to hold their interests in Treasury securities indirectly in TRADES.
Scope of Regulation
Just as the scope of Revised Article 8 is limited, 
2
 the scope of this regulation is limited. It is not a comprehensive codification of the law governing securities, transactions in securities or the law of contracts for the purchase or sale of securities. Similarly, it is not a codification of all laws that could affect a person's interest in a Treasury book-entry security. For example, state laws regarding divorce or intestate succession could well affect which persons have rights in the interest in a Treasury book-entry security. Moreover, the regulations deal with certain aspects of transactions in Treasury securities, such as perfection of a security interest and its effects and not other aspects, such as the contractual relationship between a debtor and its secured party, which are left to applicable law 
3
. See the discussion under § 357.10 of the Section-by-Section Analysis.
2
the scope of this regulation is limited. It is not a comprehensive codification of the law governing securities, transactions in securities or the law of contracts for the purchase or sale of securities. Similarly, it is not a codification of all laws that could affect a person's interest in a Treasury book-entry security. For example, state laws regarding divorce or intestate succession could well affect which persons have rights in the interest in a Treasury book-entry security. Moreover, the regulations deal with certain aspects of transactions in Treasury securities, such as perfection of a security interest and its effects and not other aspects, such as the contractual relationship between a debtor and its secured party, which are left to applicable law
3
. See the discussion under § 357.10 of the Section-by-Section Analysis.
2 U.C.C. Revised Article 8, Prefatory Note at 12.
2
U.C.C. Revised Article 8, Prefatory Note at 12.
3 The regulations in 31 CFR 306.118(b), which are being supplanted by TRADES, state that “applicable law” covers how a transfer or pledge is “effected” as well as perfected. Except with respect to security interests marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, TRADES does not address how a security interest in a Treasury book-entry security is created or what law governs the creation of a security interest. Section 357.11(a) of TRADES, which establishes the choice of law for interests other than those covered by § 357.10, addresses the choice of law with respect to the perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection, and priority of security interests, but does not address the law governing creation or attachment of a security interest. This is consistent with the scope and choice of law provisions of Revised Article 8.
3
The regulations in 31 CFR 306.118(b), which are being supplanted by TRADES, state that “applicable law” covers how a transfer or pledge is “effected” as well as perfected. Except with respect to security interests marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, TRADES does not address how a security interest in a Treasury book-entry security is created or what law governs the creation of a security interest. Section 357.11(a) of TRADES, which establishes the choice of law for interests other than those covered by § 357.10, addresses the choice of law with respect to the perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection, and priority of security interests, but does not address the law governing creation or attachment of a security interest. This is consistent with the scope and choice of law provisions of Revised Article 8.
Section-by-Section Analysis
Section 357.0 Dual book-entry systems.
Section 357.0 sets forth that Treasury provides two systems for maintaining Treasury book-entry securities—TRADES and Legacy Treasury Direct. Subpart A of part 357 of 31 CFR contains general information about TRADES and Legacy Treasury Direct. Subpart B contains the TRADES regulations. Subpart C contains the Legacy Treasury Direct regulations. Subpart D contains miscellaneous provisions. Thus, in its totality, part 357 sets forth in one place the complete set of governing rules for Treasury securities issued in book-entry form.
Section 357.1 Effective date.
Section 357.1 establishes the effective date for TRADES. TRADES applies to outstanding securities formerly governed by 31 CFR part 306, subpart O. Conforming changes to parts 306, 356, and 358 are being made to coincide with the publication of TRADES in final form. Consistent with the approach set forth in Revised Article 8 (see § 8-603 and the official comment thereto), on and after the effective date these regulations will apply to all transactions, including transactions commenced prior to the effective date. Revised Article 8, in Section 8-603, gave secured parties four months after the effective date to take action to continue the perfection of their security interests. TRADES, through its delayed effectiveness, provides a similar period. In TRADES, January 1, 1997, becomes the date by which such actions must be completed.
The effective date for TRADES is January 1, 1997. While TRADES is based in large part on Revised Article 8 that has received widespread attention in the financial community and already has been adopted in 28 states, 
4
 Treasury has determined that TRADES will be effective on January 1, 1997, to ensure a smooth transition to TRADES. In making that determination, Treasury has taken into account the time required by other Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) to promulgate similar regulations for their securities. Such an effective date, when combined with TRADES having been published in proposed form with a 60-day comment period, should provide sufficient time for an orderly transition to the new TRADES rules.
4
Treasury has determined that TRADES will be effective on January 1, 1997, to ensure a smooth transition to TRADES. In making that determination, Treasury has taken into account the time required by other Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) to promulgate similar regulations for their securities. Such an effective date, when combined with TRADES having been published in proposed form with a 60-day comment period, should provide sufficient time for an orderly transition to the new TRADES rules.
4 As of August 1, 1996, those states are: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and Wyoming. See discussion accompanying footnote 11.
4
As of August 1, 1996, those states are: Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and Wyoming. See discussion accompanying footnote 11.
Section 357.2 Definitions.
Section 357.2 contains definitions for use in subparts B and C. While most of the definitions are straightforward, four terms—Participant, Entitlement Holder, Security Entitlement and Securities Intermediary—are critical to an understanding of the proposed TRADES regulations.
(a) Participant. A Participant is a person that has a securities account relationship in its name with a Federal Reserve Bank. Accordingly, the Federal Reserve Bank and Treasury know both the identity of the persons maintaining these accounts and the Treasury book-entry securities held in these accounts.
Participant.
A Participant is a person that has a securities account relationship in its name with a Federal Reserve Bank. Accordingly, the Federal Reserve Bank and Treasury know both the identity of the persons maintaining these accounts and the Treasury book-entry securities held in these accounts.
(b) Securities Intermediary. Securities Intermediaries are persons (other than individuals, except as described below) that are in the business of holding interests in Treasury book-entry securities for others. Participants can be, and usually are, Securities Intermediaries.
Securities Intermediary.
Securities Intermediaries are persons (other than individuals, except as described below) that are in the business of holding interests in Treasury book-entry securities for others. Participants can be, and usually are, Securities Intermediaries.
In addition, entities such as clearing corporations, banks, brokers and dealers can be Securities Intermediaries in a single chain of ownership of a Treasury security. An individual, unless registered as a broker or dealer under the federal securities laws, cannot be a Securities Intermediary. As an illustration of a possible chain of ownership, in the following chart, the Federal Reserve Bank, Participant and Broker-Dealer are all Securities Intermediaries.
Treasury
Federal Reserve Bank
|
Participant
|
Broker-Dealer
|
Individual Holder
(c) Entitlement Holder. An Entitlement Holder is any person for whom a Securities Intermediary holds an interest in a Treasury book-entry security. In the above example Individual Holder, Broker-Dealer and Participant are all Entitlement Holders. Thus, a person can be both a Securities Intermediary and an Entitlement Holder. See also the commentary on “Security Entitlement.”
Entitlement Holder.
An Entitlement Holder is any person for whom a Securities Intermediary holds an interest in a Treasury book-entry security. In the above example Individual Holder, Broker-Dealer and Participant are all Entitlement Holders. Thus, a person can be both a Securities Intermediary and an Entitlement Holder. See also the commentary on “Security Entitlement.”
(d) Security Entitlement. A Security Entitlement is the interest that an Entitlement Holder has in a Treasury book-entry security. In the example, Participant, Broker-Dealer and Individual Holder all hold Security Entitlements. The rights and property interests associated with a Security Entitlement of a Participant held on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank (“Participant's Security Entitlement”) are, however, different from the rights and property interests associated with other Security Entitlements. As provided in § 357.10(a), Federal law defines the scope and nature of a Participant's Security Entitlement. While TRADES is based in large part on Revised Article 8, the meaning of Security Entitlement under federal law is different than under Revised Article 8. For example, Participants have a direct claim against the United States for interest and principal even though, under state law, an Entitlement Holder would only have a claim against its Securities Intermediary for such payment. To the extent not inconsistent with this regulation, the scope and nature of a Security Entitlement of an Entitlement Holder below the level of a Participant, (Broker-dealer and Individual Holder in the example above), is defined by applicable state law, as determined pursuant to § 357.11. It should also be noted that while a Participant's rights have Federal law components under § 357.10(a), the nature of a Security Entitlement held by a lower tier intermediary on the books of a Participant is determined pursuant to applicable law as provided in § 357.11.
Security Entitlement.
A Security Entitlement is the interest that an Entitlement Holder has in a Treasury book-entry security. In the example, Participant, Broker-Dealer and Individual Holder all hold Security Entitlements. The rights and property interests associated with a Security Entitlement of a Participant held on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank (“Participant's Security Entitlement”) are, however, different from the rights and property interests associated with other Security Entitlements. As provided in § 357.10(a), Federal law defines the scope and nature of a Participant's Security Entitlement. While TRADES is based in large part on Revised Article 8, the meaning of Security Entitlement under federal law is different than under Revised Article 8. For example, Participants have a direct claim against the United States for interest and principal even though, under state law, an Entitlement Holder would only have a claim against its Securities Intermediary for such payment. To the extent not inconsistent with this regulation, the scope and nature of a Security Entitlement of an Entitlement Holder below the level of a Participant, (Broker-dealer and Individual Holder in the example above), is defined by applicable state law, as determined pursuant to § 357.11. It should also be noted that while a Participant's rights have Federal law components under § 357.10(a), the nature of a Security Entitlement held by a lower tier intermediary on the books of a Participant is determined pursuant to applicable law as provided in § 357.11.
Section 357.10 Law governing the United States and Reserve Banks.
Section 357.10(a) provides that the rights and obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks (with one exception detailed below), with respect to both the TRADES system and Treasury book-entry securities maintained in TRADES are governed solely and exclusively by Federal law. Thus, claims against the United States and Federal Reserve Banks of both Participants and all other persons with an interest (or claiming an interest) in a Treasury book-entry security maintained in TRADES are governed by Federal law. Federal law is defined to include TRADES, the offering circulars pursuant to which the Treasury securities are sold, the offering announcements and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars. 
5
 Prior to March 1, 1993, the terms of each offering of Treasury securities, except for Treasury bills were set forth in an offering circular published in the Federal Register. 
6
 Since March 1, 1993, all Treasury book-entry securities have been offered pursuant to a uniform offering circular set forth at 31 CFR part 356.
5
Prior to March 1, 1993, the terms of each offering of Treasury securities, except for Treasury bills were set forth in an offering circular published in the
Federal Register.
6
Since March 1, 1993, all Treasury book-entry securities have been offered pursuant to a uniform offering circular set forth at 31 CFR part 356.
5 A “Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular” is defined in § 357.2 as the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains Book-entry Securities Accounts and transfers Book-entry Securities.
5
A “Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular” is defined in § 357.2 as the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains Book-entry Securities Accounts and transfers Book-entry Securities.
6 Treasury bills were issued pursuant to one master offering circular (31 CFR part 349, removed, and replaced by 31 CFR part 356) effective March 1, 1993. (58 FR 412)
6
Treasury bills were issued pursuant to one master offering circular (31 CFR part 349, removed, and replaced by 31 CFR part 356) effective March 1, 1993. (58 FR 412)
While TRADES is based in large measure on Revised Article 8, a fundamental principle of these regulations (and a divergence from Revised Article 8) is that the obligations of the issuer (the United States) and the Federal Reserve Banks, as well as all claims with respect to TRADES or a Treasury book-entry security against Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank, are governed solely by Federal law. Thus, for example, those parts of Revised Article 8 that detail obligations of issuers (or their agents) of securities are not applicable to either the United States or Federal Reserve Banks. 
7
 In addition, neither the United States nor Federal Reserve Banks have any obligations to persons holding their interests in a Treasury book-entry security at levels below the level of a Participant or to any other person claiming an interest in a Treasury book-entry security (with the limited exception set out in § 357.12(c)(1)). Thus, there are no derivative rights against either the United States or the Federal Reserve Banks.
7
In addition, neither the United States nor Federal Reserve Banks have any obligations to persons holding their interests in a Treasury book-entry security at levels below the level of a Participant or to any other person claiming an interest in a Treasury book-entry security (with the limited exception set out in § 357.12(c)(1)). Thus, there are no derivative rights against either the United States or the Federal Reserve Banks.
7 The regulations in subpart C of this part set out other obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks for securities held in Legacy Treasury Direct. These regulations preempt applicable state law.
7
The regulations in subpart C of this part set out other obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks for securities held in Legacy Treasury Direct. These regulations preempt applicable state law.
In interpreting this section, it is important to note that the scope of TRADES, like that of Revised Article 8, is limited. Accordingly, the governing law set forth in § 357.10(a) is applicable only to the matters set forth in § 357.10(a). Other laws remain applicable and could affect the holders of book-entry securities.
For example, the tax treatment of Securities Entitlements is outside the scope of TRADES and other law (the Federal income tax code) is applicable in determining such tax treatment. Similarly, nothing in § 357.10(a) limits the applicability of other laws to matters such as whether the activities of Participants or Securities Intermediaries with respect to interests in Treasury book-entry securities are subject to banking or securities laws.
While TRADES in § 357.10(a) defines what law governs the contract between the United States, as issuer, and the holder of a Security Entitlement, it is not a complete statement of the contract law applicable to the United States or Federal Reserve Banks. For example, if a Participant obtains a discount window loan from a Federal Reserve Bank and agrees to pledge collateral, including Treasury book-entry securities, to the Federal Reserve Bank as security for the loan, § 357.10(a) does not establish the law for determining the validity or enforceability of the contract or the law applicable to the creation and perfection of security interests in property that is not a Treasury book-entry security. Section 357.10(a) does provide the law applicable for how a security interest in Treasury book-entry securities is perfected, the priority of such interest and, if § 357.12(c)(1) is applicable, how such security interest is created. Similarly, nothing in § 357.10(a) affects the continuing applicability or enforceability of Federal Reserve Bank operating circulars such as the circular setting forth provisions regarding electronic access to services provided by Federal Reserve Banks and agreements executed in connection with such circulars.
The law applicable with respect to interests granted to a Federal Reserve Bank depends on the manner in which the security interest is granted.
Where a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank is marked on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank under Section 357.12(c)(1), § 357.10(a) establishes the applicable law. A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank would be recorded on the Federal Reserve Bank's books where, for example, the Federal Reserve Bank made a discount window loan to a depository institution and any Treasury book-entry securities provided by the depository institution as collateral have been deposited to a pledge account on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank. For a borrowing depository institution that is not a Participant, the book-entry securities used as collateral generally would be deposited to the Federal Reserve Bank pledge account by the borrowing institution's Securities Intermediary. See Hypothetical 5.
Section 357.10(b) sets forth law applicable with respect to security interests in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank that have not been marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank. A security interest in the Securities Entitlement of a Participant in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank that is not marked on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank is governed by the law of the state in which the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank is located. Such a security interest could arise, for example, where the delivery of book-entry securities to the securities account of the Participant results in an overdraft in the Participant's Funds Account. The extent to which the Federal Reserve Bank has an interest in the Participant's book-entry securities to secure the overdraft therefore would be determined under the law of the state in which the Reserve Bank's head office is located. If the State in which the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank is located has not adopted Revised Article 8, under § 357.10(c) that State is deemed to have adopted Revised Article 8.
In certain very limited circumstances, a Federal Reserve Bank also may have a security interest in the book-entry securities of a non-Participant that is not marked on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank. Section 357.10(b) provides a separate rule for such a security interest, which would be governed by the law of the non-Participant's Securities Intermediary, as determined under § 357.11. Under § 357.11, the perfection, effect of perfection, and priority of a security interest created under such an agreement would be governed by the law of the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction, as determined under § 357.11(b). Under § 357.11(d), if the jurisdiction specified in § 357.11(b) has not adopted Revised Article 8, jurisdiction would be deemed to have adopted Revised Article 8. 
8
8
8 An interest in book-entry securities of a non-Participant that is not marked on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank, while uncommon, could arise where the Federal Reserve Bank lends to a non-Participant depository institution and enters into a triparty agreement with the depository institution and its Securities Intermediary rather than requiring the deposit of the book-entry securities in a pledge account on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank through an instruction given by the non-Participant depository institution to its Securities Intermediary.
8
An interest in book-entry securities of a non-Participant that is not marked on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank, while uncommon, could arise where the Federal Reserve Bank lends to a non-Participant depository institution and enters into a triparty agreement with the depository institution and its Securities Intermediary rather than requiring the deposit of the book-entry securities in a pledge account on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank through an instruction given by the non-Participant depository institution to its Securities Intermediary.
For purposes of applying the state law chosen under the rules of § 357.10(b), Federal Reserve Banks are treated as clearing corporations. As a result, a security interest in a Securities Entitlement of a Participant in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank under § 357.12(c)(2) has the same priority as security interests granted to other clearing corporations under state law. This is consistent with the treatment accorded to Federal Reserve Banks generally under Revised Article 8.
Section 357.11 Law governing other interests.
(a) Law governing the rights and obligation of Participants and third parties. Section 357.11 is a choice of law rule. The substantive matters subject to this choice of law rule are set forth in § 357.11(a). The matters set forth in § 357.11(a) are meant to be coextensive with those matters covered by Revised Article 8 with respect to a person's interest in a Treasury book-entry security (other than those related to a person's relationship to Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank which are governed solely by federal law). For purposes of these choice of law rules Participants are Securities Intermediaries.
Law governing the rights and obligation of Participants and third parties.
Section 357.11 is a choice of law rule. The substantive matters subject to this choice of law rule are set forth in § 357.11(a). The matters set forth in § 357.11(a) are meant to be coextensive with those matters covered by Revised Article 8 with respect to a person's interest in a Treasury book-entry security (other than those related to a person's relationship to Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank which are governed solely by federal law). For purposes of these choice of law rules Participants are Securities Intermediaries.
Section 357.11(b) adopts Revised Article 8's general choice of law rule. Section 357.11(c) sets forth a special choice of law rule with respect to security interests perfected automatically or by filing, which also is included in Revised Article 8. Generally, the law applicable to the Securities Intermediary will govern matters involving an interest in a book-entry security held through that intermediary. This approach is not followed with respect to perfection of security interests automatically or by filing. In those cases, the law of the jurisdiction in which the debtor is located is the governing law. Since filing systems are based on the location of the debtor, this approach should reduce uncertainty and preserve the normal practice of searching records based on the debtor's location. 
9
 The language “person creating a security interest” is used in lieu of the term “debtor” in this provision to avoid any confusion. The word “debtor” has two meanings in the Uniform Commercial Code and the expression “person creating a security interest” provides clarity with respect to who is covered by this section. The term does not refer to a creditor. The language “is located” is intended to conform to its meaning under applicable law, as it may be amended from time to time. See, e.g., U.C.C. section 9-103(3)(d). Section 357.11(d) provides for the application of Revised Article 8 if the choice of law analysis required by § 357.11(b) results in the choice of the law of a State that has not yet adopted Revised Article 8. As noted elsewhere, in such a situation, the State's law is viewed as if it had adopted Revised Article 8. This section also provides that, for purposes of applying state law, the Federal Reserve Banks are clearing corporations and Participants' interests in book-entry securities are Security Entitlements.
9
The language “person creating a security interest” is used in lieu of the term “debtor” in this provision to avoid any confusion. The word “debtor” has two meanings in the Uniform Commercial Code and the expression “person creating a security interest” provides clarity with respect to who is covered by this section. The term does not refer to a creditor. The language “is located” is intended to conform to its meaning under applicable law, as it may be amended from time to time. See, e.g., U.C.C. section 9-103(3)(d). Section 357.11(d) provides for the application of Revised Article 8 if the choice of law analysis required by § 357.11(b) results in the choice of the law of a State that has not yet adopted Revised Article 8. As noted elsewhere, in such a situation, the State's law is viewed as if it had adopted Revised Article 8. This section also provides that, for purposes of applying state law, the Federal Reserve Banks are clearing corporations and Participants' interests in book-entry securities are Security Entitlements.
9 The substantive effect of filing is limited and applies only in states which have adopted Revised Article 8. Since the effect of filing is a unique state law matter, in this one area, Treasury has determined that possible lack of uniformity does not justify altering state law.
9
The substantive effect of filing is limited and applies only in states which have adopted Revised Article 8. Since the effect of filing is a unique state law matter, in this one area, Treasury has determined that possible lack of uniformity does not justify altering state law.
(b) Limited scope of Federal preemption. In an earlier TRADES proposal Treasury contemplated adopting a comprehensive regulation governing the rights of all persons in Treasury book-entry securities held in TRADES. Such an approach was proposed because Treasury believed that a uniform rule was necessary to preserve the efficiency and liquidity of the market for Treasury securities—the most liquid and efficient market in the world. Treasury believed then, and believes now, that the material rights of a holder in the United States of an interest in a Treasury security should not vary solely by virtue of such holder's geographic location or the location of the financial institution through which it holds its interest in Treasury securities. In light of Revised Article 8, Treasury has determined that it is possible to achieve this uniformity without developing an independent system of Federal commercial law. 
10
 The questions inherent in a tiered system of ownership have been analyzed, and, in Treasury's view, satisfactorily addressed by Revised Article 8.
Limited scope of Federal preemption.
In an earlier TRADES proposal Treasury contemplated adopting a comprehensive regulation governing the rights of all persons in Treasury book-entry securities held in TRADES. Such an approach was proposed because Treasury believed that a uniform rule was necessary to preserve the efficiency and liquidity of the market for Treasury securities—the most liquid and efficient market in the world. Treasury believed then, and believes now, that the material rights of a holder in the United States of an interest in a Treasury security should not vary solely by virtue of such holder's geographic location or the location of the financial institution through which it holds its interest in Treasury securities. In light of Revised Article 8, Treasury has determined that it is possible to achieve this uniformity without developing an independent system of Federal commercial law.
10
The questions inherent in a tiered system of ownership have been analyzed, and, in Treasury's view, satisfactorily addressed by Revised Article 8.
10 As noted previously, the substantive scope of this regulation is limited.
10
As noted previously, the substantive scope of this regulation is limited.
As of August 1, 1996, 28 states have adopted Revised Article 8 and Treasury understands that it will soon be adopted in additional states. As with all uniform laws, the adoption process takes several years. In order to assure uniformity, in light of the unavoidable delays in the state-by-state adoption process of Revised Article 8, Treasury is promulgating regulations with a limited form of preemption. As provided in both §§ 357.10(c) and 357.11(d), if the choice of law rules set forth in TRADES would lead to the application of the law of a State that has not yet adopted Revised Article 8, TRADES will apply Revised Article 8 (with conforming and miscellaneous amendments to other Articles) in the form approved by the ALI and NCCUSL. Treasury expects that these provisions will be operative only during the state-by-state adoption process and would plan to amend TRADES to delete reference to these provisions once the adoption process has been completed.
While Revised Article 8 is defined to mean the official text of Article 8 as approved by the ALI and NCCUSL, Treasury recognizes that states may make minor changes in that text when adopting Article 8. Treasury has concluded that minor changes should not prevent Revised Article 8, as adopted by a state, from being the appropriate law. In other words, if a state passes a version of Article 8 that is substantially identical to Revised Article 8, reference to Revised Article 8 (as defined) would no longer be required. Treasury has determined that the versions of Article 8 passed by 50 
11
 states that have enacted Article 8 meet this standard. Accordingly, §§ 357.10(c) and 357.11(d) would not be applicable if the choice of law provisions of TRADES directed a person to one of those states. As additional states adopt Revised Article 8, Treasury will provide notice in the Federal Register as to whether the enactments are “substantially identical” to the uniform version for purposes of these regulations and on an annual basis, the Commentary will be amended to reflect subsequent enactments. This approach represents a significantly reduced form of preemption of state law from former versions of TRADES and preserves Treasury's preeminent interest in a uniform system of rules applicable to all holders of interests in Treasury book-entry securities.
11
states that have enacted Article 8 meet this standard. Accordingly, §§ 357.10(c) and 357.11(d) would not be applicable if the choice of law provisions of TRADES directed a person to one of those states. As additional states adopt Revised Article 8, Treasury will provide notice in the
Federal Register
as to whether the enactments are “substantially identical” to the uniform version for purposes of these regulations and on an annual basis, the Commentary will be amended to reflect subsequent enactments. This approach represents a significantly reduced form of preemption of state law from former versions of TRADES and preserves Treasury's preeminent interest in a uniform system of rules applicable to all holders of interests in Treasury book-entry securities.
11 Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
11
Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
Section 357.12 Obtaining an interest in a book-entry security.
(a) Creation of a Participant's Security Entitlement. A Participant's interest in a Treasury book-entry security is a Securities Entitlement. Section 357.12(a) provides that a Participant's Securities Entitlement is created when a Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book entry that a Book-entry Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account. Instead of the concept of initial credit and transfer of a Treasury book-entry security, as set forth in the existing regulations, this proposal focuses on the creation of a Participant's Securities Entitlement and, in this way, is similar to Section 8-501 of Revised Article 8.
Creation of a Participant's Security Entitlement.
A Participant's interest in a Treasury book-entry security is a Securities Entitlement. Section 357.12(a) provides that a Participant's Securities Entitlement is created when a Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book entry that a Book-entry Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account. Instead of the concept of initial credit and transfer of a Treasury book-entry security, as set forth in the existing regulations, this proposal focuses on the creation of a Participant's Securities Entitlement and, in this way, is similar to Section 8-501 of Revised Article 8.
The regulation focuses on the creation of a Participant's Security Entitlement because Security Entitlement is the term used to describe the Participant's interest in a Treasury book-entry security. Once a Participant obtains that interest, the regulation sets forth what that interest is. Thus, as provided in § 357.10, federal law describes a Participant's rights against the United States and the Federal Reserve Bank where it maintains its Securities Account. To the extent not inconsistent with § 357.10, § 357.11 describes the applicable law to determine Participants' rights and obligations with respect to all other persons. Under these regulations, Participants can still transfer their interests in a Treasury book-entry security as they did before—by issuing a Transfer Message to the Federal Reserve Bank where they hold such interest. Transfer of interests between Participants can occur by a Participant holding such interest issuing a Transfer Message. As a result of such message, the Federal Reserve Bank will make a book entry in favor of the receiving Participant (thereby creating a Security Entitlement in favor of such Participant) and also will make a book entry deleting the initiator Participant's interest in such Treasury book-entry security (thereby eliminating that Participant's Security Entitlement). In addition, if authorized under applicable state law, Participants may enter into agreements with other Participants that, as to the Participants, constitute a transfer. Such action is without effect to either the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank.
(b) Creation and priority of a Security Interest. (i) Security Interests of the United States. Section 357.12(b) provides that a security interest in favor of the United States has priority over the interests of any other person in a Treasury book-entry security. The United States obtains security interests in Treasury securities as collateral to secure funds in a variety of situations such as Treasury Tax and Loan accounts; government agency funds or funds under the control of the Federal Courts held at financial institutions; and securities pledged in lieu of surety by contractors and others. The priority provided the United States in these situations is consistent with existing law.
Creation and priority of a Security Interest.
(i)
Security Interests of the United States.
Section 357.12(b) provides that a security interest in favor of the United States has priority over the interests of any other person in a Treasury book-entry security. The United States obtains security interests in Treasury securities as collateral to secure funds in a variety of situations such as Treasury Tax and Loan accounts; government agency funds or funds under the control of the Federal Courts held at financial institutions; and securities pledged in lieu of surety by contractors and others. The priority provided the United States in these situations is consistent with existing law.
In addition, Federal Reserve Banks do recognize on their books and records security interests in favor of the United States. In that situation, the Federal Reserve Bank will not transfer the security without the permission of the United States. This section provides that a Federal Reserve Bank may rely exclusively on the directions of an authorized representative of the United States to transfer a security and is protected in so relying. Ordinarily, an authorized representative of the United States would take such action under circumstances such as the default or insolvency of the pledgor.
(ii) Security Interests on the books of a Reserve Bank. Where required by Federal law or regulation or pursuant to a specific agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank, a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank or other person may be created or perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest under § 357.12(c)(1). An example of a security interest that is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank would be the pledge in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank of a Participant's book-entry securities as collateral for a discount window loan. 
12
 For limited categories of pledges, Federal Reserve Banks may agree to record a security interest in favor of a third party on their books. For example, in some circumstances a Federal Reserve Bank may permit the establishment of a pledge account to hold book-entry securities pledged to governmental entities other than the United States government. It is important to note that there is no obligation for either Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank to agree to record a security interest on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, except as required by Federal law or regulation. If they do so, the security interest is perfected when the Federal Reserve Bank records a security interest on its books. In addition, the security interest has priority over all other interests in the Treasury book-entry security except an interest of the United States.
Security Interests on the books of a Reserve Bank.
Where required by Federal law or regulation or pursuant to a specific agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank, a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank or other person may be created or perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest under § 357.12(c)(1). An example of a security interest that is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank would be the pledge in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank of a Participant's book-entry securities as collateral for a discount window loan.
12
For limited categories of pledges, Federal Reserve Banks may agree to record a security interest in favor of a third party on their books. For example, in some circumstances a Federal Reserve Bank may permit the establishment of a pledge account to hold book-entry securities pledged to governmental entities other than the United States government. It is important to note that there is no obligation for either Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank to agree to record a security interest on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, except as required by Federal law or regulation. If they do so, the security interest is perfected when the Federal Reserve Bank records a security interest on its books. In addition, the security interest has priority over all other interests in the Treasury book-entry security except an interest of the United States.
12 Book-entry securities pledged by a non-Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank generally would be deposited by the non-Participant's Securities Intermediary to a pledge account at the Federal Reserve Bank, and therefore also would be marked on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank. See the discussion under D. (§ 357.10).
12
Book-entry securities pledged by a non-Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank generally would be deposited by the non-Participant's Securities Intermediary to a pledge account at the Federal Reserve Bank, and therefore also would be marked on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank. See the discussion under D. (§ 357.10).
(iii) Other security interests. As provided in § 357.12(c)(2), a security interest in a book-entry security may be perfected by any method available under applicable state law, as determined under § 357.10(b) or § 357.11. 
13
 The perfection and priority of such interests shall be governed by applicable law. Security interests under this section may include security interests in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, such as a clearing lien or pledge by a non-participant of book-entry securities held through a Securities Intermediary where the securities have not been deposited to a Federal Reserve Bank pledge account. Consistent with Revised Article 8, a Federal Reserve Bank would be treated as a clearing corporation under the applicable state law.
Other security interests.
As provided in § 357.12(c)(2), a security interest in a book-entry security may be perfected by any method available under applicable state law, as determined under § 357.10(b) or § 357.11.
13
The perfection and priority of such interests shall be governed by applicable law. Security interests under this section may include security interests in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, such as a clearing lien or pledge by a non-participant of book-entry securities held through a Securities Intermediary where the securities have not been deposited to a Federal Reserve Bank pledge account. Consistent with Revised Article 8, a Federal Reserve Bank would be treated as a clearing corporation under the applicable state law.
13 Under both of these sections, if the state has not yet adopted Revised Article 8, the applicable law would be that state's law as it would be amended by Revised Article 8.
13
Under both of these sections, if the state has not yet adopted Revised Article 8, the applicable law would be that state's law as it would be amended by Revised Article 8.
If a Person perfects a security interest pursuant to § 357.12(c)(2), obligations of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to that security interest are limited. Specifically, unless special arrangements are agreed to by the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 357.12(c)(1), neither the Federal Reserve Bank nor the United States will recognize the interests of any person other than the person in whose securities account the interest in a Treasury book-entry security is maintained. This does not mean that such a security interest is invalid. Rather, it means that the creditor's recourse will be solely against the debtor Participant or other third party.
Section 357.13 Rights and obligations of Treasury and the Reserve Banks.
(a) Adverse claims. Section 357.13(a) sets forth the general rule that, with limited exceptions, Treasury and the Federal Reserve Banks will recognize only the interest of a Participant in a Treasury book-entry security in whose Securities Account such interest is maintained.
Adverse claims.
Section 357.13(a) sets forth the general rule that, with limited exceptions, Treasury and the Federal Reserve Banks will recognize only the interest of a Participant in a Treasury book-entry security in whose Securities Account such interest is maintained.
As noted previously, Treasury book-entry securities maintained in TRADES are held in a tiered system of ownership. The records of a Federal Reserve Bank reflect only the ownership at the top tier. Institutions maintaining a Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank frequently will hold interests in Treasury book-entry securities for their customers (which can include broker-dealers and other Securities Intermediaries) and in certain cases those customers will hold interests in securities for their customers. Accordingly, neither Treasury nor a Federal Reserve Bank will know the identity or recognize a claim of a Participant's customer if that customer were to present it to Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank.
In addition, except in the limited case where a security interest is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 357.12(c)(1), neither the Treasury nor a Federal Reserve Bank will recognize the claims of any other person asserting a claim in a Treasury book-entry security. Persons at levels below the Participant level must present their claims to their Securities Intermediary.
(b) Payment obligations. Section 357.13(b) contains a corollary to the rule set forth in § 357.13(a). This section provides that Treasury discharges its payment responsibility with respect to a security that it has issued when a Federal Reserve Bank credits the funds account of a Participant with amounts due on that security or makes payment in some other manner specified by the Participant. This is consistent with existing law and the first TRADES proposal. 
14
 In Revised Article 8, the issuer discharges its obligations when it makes payment to an owner registered on its books. Under common commercial practice, the registered owner in the indirect system may be a clearing corporation or the clearing corporation's nominee. Although the Federal Reserve Banks are treated as clearing corporations under both Revised Article 8 and TRADES, Treasury remains liable until payment is made to, or in accordance with the instructions of, a Participant. Section 357.13(b)(2) establishes the mechanism of how Treasury book-entry securities are paid at maturity. It is intended to cover a variety of procedures, including where the proceeds of pledged securities are credited to a suspense account pending substitution or release. This paragraph makes clear that the payment takes place automatically and that, unlike with physical certificates, there is no act of presentment required by the Participant.
Payment obligations.
Section 357.13(b) contains a corollary to the rule set forth in § 357.13(a). This section provides that Treasury discharges its payment responsibility with respect to a security that it has issued when a Federal Reserve Bank credits the funds account of a Participant with amounts due on that security or makes payment in some other manner specified by the Participant. This is consistent with existing law and the first TRADES proposal.
14
In Revised Article 8, the issuer discharges its obligations when it makes payment to an owner registered on its books. Under common commercial practice, the registered owner in the indirect system may be a clearing corporation or the clearing corporation's nominee. Although the Federal Reserve Banks are treated as clearing corporations under both Revised Article 8 and TRADES, Treasury remains liable until payment is made to, or in accordance with the instructions of, a Participant. Section 357.13(b)(2) establishes the mechanism of how Treasury book-entry securities are paid at maturity. It is intended to cover a variety of procedures, including where the proceeds of pledged securities are credited to a suspense account pending substitution or release. This paragraph makes clear that the payment takes place automatically and that, unlike with physical certificates, there is no act of presentment required by the Participant.
14 51 FR 8846, 8848 (March 14, 1986).
14
51 FR 8846, 8848 (March 14, 1986).
Section 357.14 Authority of Reserve Banks.
Section 357.14 provides that Federal Reserve Banks are authorized, as fiscal agents of Treasury, to operate the commercial book-entry system for Treasury.
Section 357.44 Notices.
Section 357.44 contains a revised version of a provision that appeared in earlier TRADES proposals. Similar to the rule in Revised Article 8 (see section 8-112), it provides where certain legal process should be directed. While providing instructions on where notice should be directed, it makes clear that the regulations do not establish whether a Federal Reserve Bank is required to honor any such order or notice.
J. Hypotheticals
Hypothetical 1
TREASURY
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
|
PARTICIPANT
|
DEALER
|
INVESTOR
The first hypothetical is designed to show what law applies at different levels of the tiered book-entry system. TRADES provides that federal law, and only federal law (defined in § 357.10(a)), governs the rights and obligations of the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks (except for those matters involving Federal Reserve Banks set forth in § 357.10(b)). Thus, for example, Treasury discharges its payment obligations with respect to a security it has issued in the manner described in § 357.13(b). Federal law both defines the payment obligation and describes how Treasury fulfills that obligation. Those portions of Revised Article 8 dealing with issuer obligations are not applicable to Treasury or the Federal Reserve Banks. 
15
 Similarly, with certain limited exceptions as set forth in § 357.12(c)(1), Treasury and the Federal Reserve Banks will recognize only the interest of a Participant in a Treasury book-entry security in whose Security Account the interest is maintained. Accordingly, as a matter of federal law, neither Treasury nor a Federal Reserve Bank will recognize any claim by Dealer or Investor. 
16
15
Similarly, with certain limited exceptions as set forth in § 357.12(c)(1), Treasury and the Federal Reserve Banks will recognize only the interest of a Participant in a Treasury book-entry security in whose Security Account the interest is maintained. Accordingly, as a matter of federal law, neither Treasury nor a Federal Reserve Bank will recognize any claim by Dealer or Investor.
16
15 As provided in § 357.14, Federal Reserve Banks, among other things, effect transfers of book-entry securities between Participants' Security Accounts.
15
As provided in § 357.14, Federal Reserve Banks, among other things, effect transfers of book-entry securities between Participants' Security Accounts.
16 One comment questioned whether similar language in the March 4, 1996 release implied that, under Revised Article 8, in the above example Investor could have a claim against Participant. No such implication was intended. The only point of the language is to make it clear that Federal, not state, law governs the rights and obligations of Treasury and the Federal Reserve Banks.
16
One comment questioned whether similar language in the March 4, 1996 release implied that, under Revised Article 8, in the above example Investor could have a claim against Participant. No such implication was intended. The only point of the language is to make it clear that Federal, not state, law governs the rights and obligations of Treasury and the Federal Reserve Banks.
In the hypothetical above, as between Participant and Dealer, Participant is the Securities Intermediary. With respect to the matters set forth in § 357.11(a), the law of the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction governs. Thus, with respect to the matters in § 357.11(a), the law of Participant's jurisdiction applies as between Participant and Dealer. 
17
 If Participant's jurisdiction, as determined under § 357.11(b), has not adopted Revised Article 8, the law of Participant's jurisdiction, as it would be amended by Revised Article 8, applies. Similarly, as between Dealer and Investor, Dealer is a Securities Intermediary, with respect to the matters in § 357.11(a), the law of Dealer's jurisdiction applies as between Dealer and Investor. If Dealer's jurisdiction has not adopted Revised Article 8, the law of Dealer's jurisdiction, as it would be amended by Article 8, applies.
17
If Participant's jurisdiction, as determined under § 357.11(b), has not adopted Revised Article 8, the law of Participant's jurisdiction, as it would be amended by Revised Article 8, applies. Similarly, as between Dealer and Investor, Dealer is a Securities Intermediary, with respect to the matters in § 357.11(a), the law of Dealer's jurisdiction applies as between Dealer and Investor. If Dealer's jurisdiction has not adopted Revised Article 8, the law of Dealer's jurisdiction, as it would be amended by Article 8, applies.
17 As described in the March 4 Release, the scope of TRADES is limited. As a general rule, if a matter is not covered in § 357.11(a), TRADES is not applicable. One comment questioned whether TRADES covered the creation and attachment of a security interest. The omission of creation and attachment in § 357.11(a) is intentional.
17
As described in the March 4 Release, the scope of TRADES is limited. As a general rule, if a matter is not covered in § 357.11(a), TRADES is not applicable. One comment questioned whether TRADES covered the creation and attachment of a security interest. The omission of creation and attachment in § 357.11(a) is intentional.
Hypothetical 2
Assume that Dealer A sells its interest in a Treasury book-entry security to Dealer B. The transaction likely would take the following form. Dealer A will instruct Participant A to transfer its interest in a Treasury security to Participant B against cash payment. Dealer B will instruct Participant B to transfer cash to Participant A against delivery of an interest in the specified securities. Participant A will instruct the Federal Reserve Bank to transfer its interest in the Treasury security to Participant B against simultaneous credit of cash. The Federal Reserve Bank will debit Participant A's security account and credit Participant B's security account and simultaneously credit Participant A's cash account and debit Participant B's cash account. Participant A will mark its books to show that it has debited Dealer A's securities account and credited Dealer A's cash account. Participant B will mark its books to show the Security Entitlement in the Treasury security in favor of Dealer B and a debit against Dealer B's cash account. Federal law, set forth in § 357.12(a) provides that Participant B acquires its interest in the Treasury book-entry security when the Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book-entry that the interest in the security has been credited to Participant B's Securities Account. Pursuant to § 357.11(a), but subject to § 357.11(d), Participant B's jurisdiction governs Dealer B's acquisition of a Securities Entitlement from Participant B.
Hypothetical 3
TREASURY
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
|
PARTICIPANT
Assume Participant wishes to obtain a loan from Federal Reserve Bank and, as part of the transaction, will grant Federal Reserve Bank a security interest in its Securities Entitlement with respect to Treasury book-entry securities. The transaction can be accomplished in one of two ways. Pursuant to § 357.12(c)(1), the Federal Reserve Bank can mark its books to reflect the security interest. As a matter of federal law, that action creates and perfects the Federal Reserve Bank's security interest and grants the Federal Reserve Bank priority over all other claimants (other than the United States pursuant to § 357.12(b)). 
18
 A second method for completing the transaction, as set forth in § 357.12(c)(2), would be to take whatever actions are authorized by applicable law. In that case, applicable law is the law of the jurisdiction of the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank. If that jurisdiction had adopted Revised Article 8, it would be the law of that jurisdiction. If that jurisdiction had not adopted Revised Article 8, it would be the law of that jurisdiction as if the jurisdiction had adopted Revised Article 8. Under Revised Article 8, the Federal Reserve Bank's interest would be that of a clearing corporation.
18
A second method for completing the transaction, as set forth in § 357.12(c)(2), would be to take whatever actions are authorized by applicable law. In that case, applicable law is the law of the jurisdiction of the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank. If that jurisdiction had adopted Revised Article 8, it would be the law of that jurisdiction. If that jurisdiction had not adopted Revised Article 8, it would be the law of that jurisdiction as if the jurisdiction had adopted Revised Article 8. Under Revised Article 8, the Federal Reserve Bank's interest would be that of a clearing corporation.
18 In certain limited circumstances, a Federal Reserve Bank may enter into an agreement under which it agrees to record on its books an interest in Participant's book-entry securities in favor of a non-Participant, such as a governmental entity. Under these circumstances, the non-Participant would have a perfected security interest with priority over other claimants (other than the United States under § 357.12(b)). It should be noted that, as set forth in § 357.12(c)(1), there is no requirement that either the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank agree to creation and perfection of a security interest in this way, except as provided in § 357.12(c)(1).
18
In certain limited circumstances, a Federal Reserve Bank may enter into an agreement under which it agrees to record on its books an interest in Participant's book-entry securities in favor of a non-Participant, such as a governmental entity. Under these circumstances, the non-Participant would have a perfected security interest with priority over other claimants (other than the United States under § 357.12(b)). It should be noted that, as set forth in § 357.12(c)(1), there is no requirement that either the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank agree to creation and perfection of a security interest in this way, except as provided in § 357.12(c)(1).
Hypothetical 4
TREASURY
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
|
|
PARTICIPANT A
PARTICIPANT B
Assume that Participant A wishes to borrow from Participant B and grant Participant B a security interest in its Security Entitlement in Treasury book-entry securities. As provided in § 357.12(c)(2), the transaction would be completed pursuant to applicable law determined in accordance with 357.11. Although such an interest could be recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank under § 357.12(c)(1), Federal Reserve Banks generally do not mark their books to record this type of security interest for Participants.
Hypothetical 5
TREASURY
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK
|
PARTICIPANT A
|
DEALER A
|
BANK A
Assume that Bank A wishes to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank and will pledge its interest in Treasury book-entry securities held at Dealer A to collateralize that loan. The transaction could be accomplished in two ways. Pursuant to § 357.12(c)(1), the interest could be created and perfected on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank. Such a transaction would take place in the following fashion. Bank A could have Dealer A instruct Participant A to deposit securities to a pledge account specified by the Federal Reserve Bank. The Federal Reserve Bank likely would create an account on its books and specify that account to Bank A as the account to receive Bank A's interest in Treasury book-entry securities. Participant A, upon receiving Dealer A's instructions, would then instruct the Federal Reserve Bank to debit its account at the Federal Reserve Bank and credit the account created by the Federal Reserve Bank. The second way the transaction could take place is by any method permitted by the law of Dealer A's (Bank A's Securities Intermediary) jurisdiction. This could involve a tri-party agreement among the Federal Reserve Bank, Dealer A, and Bank A. As set forth in § 357.11(b)(1), that agreement likely would specify which jurisdiction's law is to govern the transaction and could specify that such choice of law supersedes any other choice of law agreement previously entered into by Dealer A and Bank A. If Dealer A's jurisdiction has not adopted Revised Article 8, the applicable law would be the law of Dealer A's jurisdiction as it would be amended by Revised Article 8.
[[61 FR 43631, Aug. 23, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 43284, Aug. 13, 1997; 63 FR 69191, Dec. 16, 1998]]

PART 358 [RESERVED]


PART 359—OFFERING OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES I

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3105.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3105.
[Source:67 FR 64278, Oct. 17, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
67 FR 64278, Oct. 17, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 359.0   What does this part cover?

This part is the offering of United States Savings Bonds of Series I (referred to as Series I bonds or bonds) for sale to the people of the United States by the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary). This offer was effective September 1, 1998, and will continue until terminated by the Secretary.

§ 359.1   What regulations govern Series I savings bonds?

(a) The regulations in 31 CFR part 360 apply to definitive (paper) Series I savings bonds that have not been converted to book-entry bonds through New Treasury Direct.
(b) The regulations in 31 CFR part 363 apply to:
(1) book-entry Series I savings bonds that were originally issued as book-entry bonds in New Treasury Direct; and
(2) definitive Series I savings bonds that have been converted to book-entry bonds through New Treasury Direct.
(c) We expressly disclaim any representations or warranties regarding Series I savings bonds that in any way conflict with these regulations and other applicable law.
[[67 FR 64278, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 14942, Mar. 23, 2005]]

§ 359.2   [Reserved]


§ 359.3   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

Accrual date is the first day of any month on which earnings on a Series I bond accrue. The redemption value of a bond does not change between these accrual dates.
Accrual date
is the first day of any month on which earnings on a Series I bond accrue. The redemption value of a bond does not change between these accrual dates.
Automated Clearing House (ACH) means a funds transfer system governed by the Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA). NACHA provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participating financial institutions.
Automated Clearing House (ACH)
means a funds transfer system governed by the Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA). NACHA provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participating financial institutions.
Bank account means your account at a United States depository financial institution (whether a bank or other financial institution) to which you have directed that ACH debits and payments be made.
Bank account
means your account at a United States depository financial institution (whether a bank or other financial institution) to which you have directed that ACH debits and payments be made.
Beneficiary refers to the second individual named in the registration of a security held in definitive form registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe.” In the New Treasury Direct system, beneficiary refers to the second individual named in the registration of a security registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In these examples, Joseph Doe is the beneficiary.
Beneficiary
refers to the second individual named in the registration of a security held in definitive form registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe.” In the New Treasury Direct system, beneficiary refers to the second individual named in the registration of a security registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In these examples, Joseph Doe is the beneficiary.
Book-entry bond means a Series I savings bonds maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Book-entry bond
means a Series I savings bonds maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Composite annual rate means an annual interest rate that combines an annual fixed rate of return and a semiannual inflation rate.
Composite annual rate
means an annual interest rate that combines an annual fixed rate of return and a semiannual inflation rate.
Converted bond means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Converted bond
means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Coowner means either the first or the second individual named in the registration of a definitive Series I savings bonds registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 or Joseph Doe.” In this example, John Doe and Joseph Doe are coowners.
Coowner
means either the first or the second individual named in the registration of a definitive Series I savings bonds registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 or Joseph Doe.” In this example, John Doe and Joseph Doe are coowners.
CPI-U, or U.S. City Average All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (non seasonally adjusted) is a monthly index of the prices paid by consumers for consumer goods and services, maintained by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor.
CPI-U, or U.S. City Average All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (non seasonally adjusted)
is a monthly index of the prices paid by consumers for consumer goods and services, maintained by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Definitive bond means a Series I savings bonds issued in paper form.
Definitive bond
means a Series I savings bonds issued in paper form.
Deflation means a decrease in the CPI-U from one month to another.
Deflation
means a decrease in the CPI-U from one month to another.
Face amount refers to the amount inscribed on the front of a definitive Series I savings bonds.
Face amount
refers to the amount inscribed on the front of a definitive Series I savings bonds.
Fiduciary means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for another.
Fiduciary
means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for another.
Fixed rate or fixed rate of return is a component of the composite annual rate for a Series I savings bonds that is established by the Secretary of the Treasury for the life of the bond.
Fixed rate
or
fixed rate of return
is a component of the composite annual rate for a Series I savings bonds that is established by the Secretary of the Treasury for the life of the bond.
Individual means a natural person. Individual does not mean an organization, representative, or fiduciary.
Individual
means a natural person. Individual does not mean an organization, representative, or fiduciary.
Inflation means an increase in the CPI-U from one month to another.
Inflation
means an increase in the CPI-U from one month to another.
Inscription means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
Inscription
means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
Interest, as used in this part, is the difference between the principal amount and the redemption value of the bond.
Interest,
as used in this part, is the difference between the principal amount and the redemption value of the bond.
Issue date is the first day of the month in which an authorized issuing agent receives payment of the issue price of the bond.
Issue date
is the first day of the month in which an authorized issuing agent receives payment of the issue price of the bond.
Issuing agent means an organization that has been qualified under part 317.
Issuing agent
means an organization that has been qualified under part 317.
New Treasury Direct system (New Treasury Direct) is an online account system in which you may hold and conduct transactions in eligible book-entry Treasury securities.
New Treasury Direct system (New Treasury Direct)
is an online account system in which you may hold and conduct transactions in eligible book-entry Treasury securities.
Owner is either a single owner, the first individual named in the registration of a bond held in the owner with beneficiary form of registration, or the primary owner of a book-entry bond held in the primary owner with secondary owner form of registration.
Owner
is either a single owner, the first individual named in the registration of a bond held in the owner with beneficiary form of registration, or the primary owner of a book-entry bond held in the primary owner with secondary owner form of registration.
Par means the principal amount of a Series I savings bond; for definitive bonds, par is the same as the face amount.
Par
means the principal amount of a Series I savings bond; for definitive bonds, par is the same as the face amount.
Paying agent means a financial institution that has been qualified under part 321.
Paying agent
means a financial institution that has been qualified under part 321.
Person means an entity including an individual, trust, estate, corporation, government entity, association, partnership, and any other similar organization. Person does not mean a Federal Reserve Bank.
Person
means an entity including an individual, trust, estate, corporation, government entity, association, partnership, and any other similar organization. Person does not mean a Federal Reserve Bank.
Primary owner means the first individual named in the registration of a book-entry bond held in New Treasury Direct registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, John Doe is the primary owner.
Primary owner
means the first individual named in the registration of a book-entry bond held in New Treasury Direct registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, John Doe is the primary owner.
Principal amount means the amount of the original investment. Principal amount does not include any interest earned.
Principal amount
means the amount of the original investment. Principal amount does not include any interest earned.
Redemption of a book-entry Series I savings bonds refers to payment of principal and accrued interest on the bond at final maturity, or, at the option of the owner, prior to final maturity. The owner of a book-entry savings bonds held in New Treasury Direct may redeem all principal and interest or a portion of the principal and the proportionate amount of interest.
Redemption of a book-entry Series I savings bonds
refers to payment of principal and accrued interest on the bond at final maturity, or, at the option of the owner, prior to final maturity. The owner of a book-entry savings bonds held in New Treasury Direct may redeem all principal and interest or a portion of the principal and the proportionate amount of interest.
Redemption of a definitive Series I savings bonds refers to the payment of principal and accrued interest when the owner presents the bond for payment.
Redemption of a definitive Series I savings bonds
refers to the payment of principal and accrued interest when the owner presents the bond for payment.
Redemption value means principal plus accrued interest of a Series I savings bonds, as of the date of redemption. In the case of book-entry Series I savings bonds, it also refers to a portion of the principal amount plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest of a bond, as of the date of redemption.
Redemption value
means principal plus accrued interest of a Series I savings bonds, as of the date of redemption. In the case of book-entry Series I savings bonds, it also refers to a portion of the principal amount plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest of a bond, as of the date of redemption.
Registration means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
Registration
means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
Registration of a book-entry Series I savings bonds means that the name and Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of all registrants are maintained on our records for a book-entry bond.
Registration of a book-entry Series I savings bonds
means that the name and Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of all registrants are maintained on our records for a book-entry bond.
Registration of a definitive Series I savings bonds means that the name and TIN of the owner or first-named co-owner are inscribed on the face of the bond.
Registration of a definitive Series I savings bonds
means that the name and TIN of the owner or first-named co-owner are inscribed on the face of the bond.
Secondary owner means the second individual named in the registration of a book-entry bond held in New Treasury Direct registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, Joseph Doe is the secondary owner.
Secondary owner
means the second individual named in the registration of a book-entry bond held in New Treasury Direct registered “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, Joseph Doe is the secondary owner.
Semiannual inflation rate means a component of the composite annual rate that is based on the six-month percentage change in the CPI-U.
Semiannual inflation rate
means a component of the composite annual rate that is based on the six-month percentage change in the CPI-U.
Semiannual rate periods are the six-month periods beginning on the date of issue and on each semiannual anniversary of the date of issue to maturity.
Semiannual rate periods
are the six-month periods beginning on the date of issue and on each semiannual anniversary of the date of issue to maturity.
Series I savings bond means a savings bonds, whether definitive or book-entry, that is purchased at par and pays interest based on a formula that incorporates both an annual fixed rate and a semiannual inflation rate.
Series I savings bond
means a savings bonds, whether definitive or book-entry, that is purchased at par and pays interest based on a formula that incorporates both an annual fixed rate and a semiannual inflation rate.
Single owner means the person named in the registration of a savings bonds without a coowner, beneficiary or secondary owner.
Single owner
means the person named in the registration of a savings bonds without a coowner, beneficiary or secondary owner.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN) means the identifying number required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service; that is, an individual's social security account number (SSN) or an employer identification number (EIN). A SSN is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789. An EIN is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN)
means the identifying number required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service; that is, an individual's social security account number (SSN) or an employer identification number (EIN). A SSN is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789. An EIN is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers.
We, us, or our refers to the agency, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term extends to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent we designate to act on behalf of the United States.
We, us,
or
our
refers to the agency, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term extends to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent we designate to act on behalf of the United States.
You or your refers to an owner of a Series I savings bonds.
You
or
your
refers to an owner of a Series I savings bonds.
[[67 FR 64278, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 14942, Mar. 23, 2005; 71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006]]

§ 359.4   In what form are Series I savings bonds issued?

Series I savings bonds are issued in book-entry form. Effective January 1, 2012, Treasury discontinued the issuance of definitive Series I savings bonds.
[[76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 359.5   What is the maturity period of a Series I savings bonds?

Series I savings bonds have a total maturity period of 30 years from the issue date, consisting of an original maturity period of 20 years and an extension period of 10 years.

§ 359.6   When may I redeem my Series I bond?

(a) Bonds issued on December 1, 2002, or earlier. You may redeem your Series I savings bond issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, at any time after six months from its issue date.
Bonds issued on December 1, 2002, or earlier.
You may redeem your Series I savings bond issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, at any time after six months from its issue date.
(b) Bonds issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter. You may redeem your Series I savings bond issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter, at any time after 12 months from its issue date.
[[68 FR 2667, Jan. 17, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 7427, Feb. 14, 2003]]

§ 359.7   If I redeem a Series I savings bonds before five years after the issue date, is there an interest penalty?

If you redeem a bond less than five years after the issue date, we will reduce the overall earning period by three months. For example, if you redeem a bond issued January 1, 2002, nine months later on October 1, 2002, the redemption value will be determined by applying the value calculation procedures and composite rate for that bond as if the redemption date were three months earlier (July 1, 2002). However, we will not reduce the redemption value of a bond subject to the three-month interest penalty below the issue price (par). This penalty does not apply to bonds redeemed five years or more after the issue date.

§ 359.8   How does interest accrue on Series I savings bonds?

A bond accrues interest based on both a fixed rate of return and a semiannual inflation rate. A single, annual rate called the composite rate reflects the combined effects of the fixed rate and the semiannual inflation rate. For more information, see appendix B of part 359.

§ 359.9   When are interest rates for Series I savings bonds announced?

(a) The Secretary will furnish fixed rates, semiannual inflation rates, and composite rates for Series I savings bonds in announcements published each May 1 and November 1.
(b) If the regularly scheduled date for the announcement is a day when the Treasury is not open for business, then the Secretary will make the announcement on the next business day. However, the effective date of the rates remains the first day of the month of the announcement.
(c) The Secretary may announce rates at any other time.

§ 359.10   What is the fixed rate of return?

The Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, determines the fixed rate of return. The fixed rate is established for the life of the bond. The fixed rate will always be greater than or equal to 0.00%. 
1
 The most recently announced fixed rate is only for bonds purchased during the six months following the announcement, or for any other period of time announced by the Secretary.
1
The most recently announced fixed rate is only for bonds purchased during the six months following the announcement, or for any other period of time announced by the Secretary.
1 However, the fixed rate is not a guaranteed minimum rate. The composite rate is composed of both the fixed rate and a semiannual inflation rate, which could possibly be less than the fixed rate or negative in deflationary situations. In all cases, however, the composite rate will always be greater than or equal to 0.00%.
1
However, the fixed rate is not a guaranteed minimum rate. The composite rate is composed of both the fixed rate and a semiannual inflation rate, which could possibly be less than the fixed rate or negative in deflationary situations. In all cases, however, the composite rate will always be greater than or equal to 0.00%.
[[73 FR 65543, Nov. 4, 1008]]

§ 359.11   What is the semiannual inflation rate?

The index used to determine the semiannual inflation rate is the non-seasonally adjusted CPI-U (the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the U.S. City Average for All Items, 1982-84 = 100) published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor. (For further information on CPI-U considerations, see appendix C to part 359 at section 1.) The semiannual inflation rate reflects the percentage change, if any, in the CPI-U over a six-month period. We announce this rate twice a year, in May and November. The semiannual inflation rate we announced in May 2002 reflects the percentage change between the CPI-U figures from the preceding March 2002 and September 2001. The rate of change over the six-month period, if any, will be expressed as a percentage, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. More specifically, the semiannual inflation rate will be determined by the following formula (the resulting rate will be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent):
see
appendix C to part 359 at section 1.) The semiannual inflation rate reflects the percentage change, if any, in the CPI-U over a six-month period. We announce this rate twice a year, in May and November. The semiannual inflation rate we announced in May 2002 reflects the percentage change between the CPI-U figures from the preceding March 2002 and September 2001. The rate of change over the six-month period, if any, will be expressed as a percentage, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. More specifically, the semiannual inflation rate will be determined by the following formula (the resulting rate will be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent):
Semiannual inflation rate = (CPI − U
Current
− CPI − U
Prior
) ÷ CPI −U
Prior

§ 359.12   What happens in deflationary conditions?

In certain deflationary situations, the semiannual inflation rate may be negative. Negative semiannual inflation rates will be used in the same way as positive semiannual inflation rates. However, if the semiannual inflation rate is negative to the extent that it completely offsets the fixed rate of return, the redemption value of a Series I bond for any particular month will not be less than the value for the preceding month.

§ 359.13   What are composite rates?

Composite rates are single, annual interest rates that reflect the combined effects of the fixed rate and the semiannual inflation rate. The composite rate will always be greater than or equal to 0.00%.
[[73 FR 65544, Nov. 4, 1008]]

§ 359.14   How are composite rates determined?

Composite rates are set according to the following formula (See appendix A to part 359 for examples of calculations involving composite interest rates.):
Composite rate = {(Fixed rate ÷ 2) + Semiannual inflation rate + [Semiannual inflation rate × (Fixed rate ÷ 2)]} × 2.
2
2 Example for I bonds issued May 2002-October 2002:
2
Example for I bonds issued May 2002-October 2002:
Fixed rate = 2.00%
Inflation rate = 0.28%
Composite rate = [0.0200 ÷ 2 + 0.0028 + (0.0028 × 0.0200 ÷ 2)] × 2
Composite rate = [0.0100 + 0.0028 + 0.000028] × 2
Composite rate = 0.012828 × 2
Composite rate = 0.025656
Composite rate = 0.0257 (rounded)
Composite rate = 2.57% (rounded)

§ 359.15   When is the composite rate applied to Series I savings bonds?

The most recently announced composite rate applies to a bond during its next semiannual rate period. A bond's semiannual rate periods are consecutive six-month periods, the first of which begins with the bond's issue date. This means that there can be a delay of several months from the time of a composite rate announcement to the time that rate determines interest earnings for a bond. For example, if you purchased a bond in April, its semiannual rate periods begin every April and October. At the beginning of the semiannual rate period in April, the most recently announced composite rate would have been the rate we announced the previous November. This rate will determine interest earnings for your bond for the next six months, through the end of September. At the beginning of the semiannual rate period in October, the most recently announced composite rate would be the rate announced the previous May. This rate will determine interest earnings for your bond through the end of the following March. However, if you purchased a bond instead in May, its semiannual rate periods begin in May and November. Therefore, the composite rates announced in May and November will apply immediately to this bond. (See appendix C to part 359 at § 2 for a discussion of rate lag.)

§ 359.16   When does interest accrue on Series I savings bonds?

(a) Interest, if any, accrues on the first day of each month; that is, we add the interest earned on a bond during any given month to its value at the beginning of the following month.
(b) The accrued interest compounds semiannually.

§ 359.17   When is interest payable on Series I savings bonds?

Interest earnings are payable upon redemption.

§ 359.18   Is the determination of the Secretary on rates and values final?

The Secretary's determination of fixed rates of return, semiannual inflation rates, composite rates, and savings bonds redemption values is final and conclusive.

§ 359.19   How is interest calculated?

We base all calculations of interest on a $25 unit. We use the value of this unit to determine the value of bonds in higher denominations. The effect of rounding off the value of the $25 unit increases at higher denominations. This can work to your slight advantage or disadvantage, depending on whether we round the value up or down. 
3
3
3 For example: A composite rate of 2.57% will result in a newly purchased $25 unit increasing in value after six months to $25.32, when rounded to the nearest cent. Thus, a $5,000 bond purchased at the same time as the $25 unit will be worth $5,064 after six months ([$5,000 divided by $25] × $25.32 = $5,064.) In contrast, if it applied directly to a $5,000 bond, the rate would render a value of $5,064.25 after six months, a difference of 25 cents. (This example does not include any discussion of the three-month interest penalty that applies if you redeem a bond less than five years after its issue date.)
3
For example: A composite rate of 2.57% will result in a newly purchased $25 unit increasing in value after six months to $25.32, when rounded to the nearest cent. Thus, a $5,000 bond purchased at the same time as the $25 unit will be worth $5,064 after six months ([$5,000 divided by $25] × $25.32 = $5,064.) In contrast, if it applied directly to a $5,000 bond, the rate would render a value of $5,064.25 after six months, a difference of 25 cents. (This example does not include any discussion of the three-month interest penalty that applies if you redeem a bond less than five years after its issue date.)

§§ 359.20-359.24   [Reserved]


Subpart B—Definitive Series I Savings Bonds


§ 359.25   What were the denominations and prices of definitive Series I savings bonds?

Prior to January 1, 2012, definitive Series I savings bonds were issued in denominations of $50, $75, $100, $200, $500, $1,000, $5,000, and $10,000. These definitive bonds were sold at par; that is, the purchase price was the same as the denomination (face value).
[[76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 359.26   When are definitive Series I savings bonds validly issued?

A definitive bond is validly issued when it is registered as provided in part 360, and when it bears an issue date and the validation indicia of an authorized issuing agent.

§ 359.27   What is the issue date of a definitive Series I savings bond?

The issue date of a definitive bond is the first day of the month in which an authorized issuing agent received payment of the issue price.
[[76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 359.28   Are taxpayer identification numbers (TINs) required for the registration of definitive Series I savings bonds?

The registration of a definitive Series I savings bond must include the TIN of the owner or first-named coowner. If the bond was purchased as a gift or award and the owner's TIN is not known, the TIN of the purchaser must be included in the registration of the bond.
[[71 FR 46857, Aug. 15, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§§ 359.29-359.33   [Reserved]


§ 359.34   May I purchase definitive Series I savings bonds over-the-counter?

Effective January 1, 2012, Treasury discontinued the over-the-counter sale of definitive Series I savings bonds.
[[76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 359.35   May I purchase definitive Series I savings bonds through a payroll savings plan?

Treasury discontinued the issuance of definitive Series I savings bonds through a payroll savings plan:
(a) Effective October 1, 2010, for United States government employees, and
(b) Effective January 1, 2011, for all other employees.
[[75 FR 52461, Aug. 26, 2010]]

§ 359.36   May I purchase definitive Series I savings bonds through employee thrift, savings, vacation, and similar plans?

You may purchase bonds registered in the names of employee plans in authorized denominations through a designated Federal Reserve Bank, as provided in part 360 of this chapter.

§ 359.37   How are definitive Series I savings bonds delivered?

We deliver definitive bonds by mail to your address. If your address is within the United States, its territories or possessions, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, we will deliver bonds at our risk. Bonds delivered elsewhere will be delivered at your risk; however, at our discretion, we may require delivery to an address within the United States, or refuse delivery to addresses in countries referred to in part 211 of this chapter.

§ 359.38   How is payment made when definitive Series I savings bonds are redeemed?

A financial institution qualified as a paying agent under the provisions of part 321 will pay the current redemption value of a definitive Series I bond presented for payment. The bond must meet the requirements for payment specified in part 360. You must establish your identity and entitlement to redemption to the satisfaction of the agent, in accordance with our instructions and identification guidelines, and must sign and complete the request for payment.

§ 359.39   How are redemption values calculated for definitive Series I savings bonds?

We determine the redemption value of a definitive savings bonds for the accrual date (the first day of each month) by first determining the composite rate as defined in § 359.13. If the result of the composite rate calculation is a negative value, zero will be the assumed composite rate in the redemption value calculation. Redemption values are calculated using the following formula (For examples of the calculation, see appendix A to part 359):
FV = PV × {[1 + (CR ÷ 2)] (
m ÷ 6
)}
Where:
FV (future value) = redemption value on the accrual date rounded to the nearest cent without consideration of penalty.
PV (present value) = redemption value at the beginning of the semiannual rate period calculated without consideration of penalty. For bonds that are older than five years, PV will equal the redemption value at the start of the semiannual rate period.
CR = composite rate converted to decimal form by dividing by 100.
m = number of full calendar months elapsed during the semiannual rate period.

§ 359.40   How can I find out what my definitive Series I savings bonds are worth?

(a) Redemption values. Redemption values are available for definitive bonds in various formats and media.
Redemption values.
Redemption values are available for definitive bonds in various formats and media.
(1) You may determine the redemption value for definitive bonds on the Internet at www.savingsbonds.gov.
www.savingsbonds.gov.
(2) You may download savings bonds calculators from the Internet at www.savingsbonds.gov.
www.savingsbonds.gov.
(3) You may obtain paper tables from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, West Virginia 26106-1328. We reserve the right to cease making paper tables of redemption values available.
(b) Redemption penalty. Redemption values published in the tables reflect the three-month interest penalty applied to bonds redeemed prior to five years from the date of issue.
Redemption penalty.
Redemption values published in the tables reflect the three-month interest penalty applied to bonds redeemed prior to five years from the date of issue.

§§ 359.41-359.44   [Reserved]


Subpart C—Book-Entry Series I Savings Bonds


§ 359.45   How are book-entry Series I savings bonds purchased and held?

Book-entry bonds must be purchased and held online through your New Treasury Direct account. We provide instructions for opening an account online at http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.
http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.

§ 359.46   What are the denominations and prices of book-entry Series I savings bonds?

Book-entry bonds are issued in a minimum amount of $25, with additional increments of one cent. Book-entry bonds are sold at par value.

§ 359.47   How is payment made for purchases of book-entry Series I savings bonds?

You may only purchase book-entry Series I savings bonds online through your New Treasury Direct account. You may pay for your securities through a debit to your designated account at a United States depository financial institution, or by applying the redemption proceeds of a certificate of indebtedness held in your New Treasury Direct account.
[[69 FR 50308, Aug. 16, 2004]]

§ 359.48   How are redemption payments made for my redeemed book-entry Series I savings bonds?

We will make payments electronically by direct deposit, using the ACH method, to your designated account at a United States depository financial institution. You may also direct that a payment be used to purchase a certificate of indebtedness to be held in your New Treasury Direct account.
[[69 FR 50308, Aug. 16, 2004]]

§ 359.49   What is the issue date of a book-entry Series I savings bond?

The issue date of a book-entry Series I savings bond is the first day of the month in which the security posts to the current holdings of the account owner.
[[69 FR 50308, Aug. 16, 2004]]

§ 359.50   What amount of book-entry Series I savings bonds may I acquire per year?

The principal amount of book-entry Series I savings bonds that you may acquire in any calendar year is provided at § 363.52.
[[77 FR 213, Jan. 4, 2012]]

§§ 359.51-359.52   [Reserved]


§ 359.53   Are taxpayer identification numbers (TINs) required for registration of book-entry Series I savings bonds?

The TIN of each person named in the registration is required to purchase a book-entry bond.

§ 359.54   When is a book-entry Series I savings bonds validly issued?

A book-entry bond is validly issued when it is posted to your New Treasury Direct account.

§ 359.55   How are redemption values calculated for book-entry Series I savings bonds?

We base current redemption values (CRV) for book-entry Series I savings bonds on the definitive savings bonds CRV. To calculate the book-entry values, we use the CRV for the $100 denomination Series I savings bonds and calculate a CRV prorated to the book-entry par investment amount for the corresponding issue and redemption dates. Calculated book-entry CRV will be rounded to the nearest one cent. 
4
 The formula is as follows (Examples of the calculation are given in appendix A to part 359.):
4
The formula is as follows (Examples of the calculation are given in appendix A to part 359.):
4 Example: Calculated value of $25.044 rounds to $25.04; calculated value of $25.045 rounds to $25.05.
4
Example: Calculated value of $25.044 rounds to $25.04; calculated value of $25.045 rounds to $25.05.
[Book-entry par investment ÷ 100] × [CRV value for $100 bond].
[[67 FR 64278, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 75 FR 52461, Aug. 26, 2010]]

§ 359.56   How can I find out what my book-entry Series I savings bonds are worth?

(a) Redemption values. You may access redemption values for your book-entry bonds through your New Treasury Direct account.
Redemption values.
You may access redemption values for your book-entry bonds through your New Treasury Direct account.
(b) Redemption penalty. Redemption values shown in your New Treasury Direct account reflect the three-month interest penalty applied to bonds redeemed prior to five years from the date of issue.
Redemption penalty.
Redemption values shown in your New Treasury Direct account reflect the three-month interest penalty applied to bonds redeemed prior to five years from the date of issue.

§§ 359.57-359.64   [Reserved]


Subpart D—Miscellaneous Provisions


§ 359.65   [Reserved]


§ 359.66   Is the Education Savings Bonds Program available for Series I savings bonds?

You may be able to exclude from income for Federal income tax purposes all or part of the interest received on the redemption of qualified bonds during the year. To qualify for the program, you or the co-owner (in the case of definitive savings bonds) must have paid qualified higher education expenses during the same year. You also must have satisfied certain other conditions. This exclusion is known as the Education Savings Bonds Program. Information about the program can be found in Internal Revenue Service Publications. (For example, see Publication 17, “Your Federal Income Tax,” Publication 550, “Investment Income and Expenses,” and Publication 970, “Tax Benefits of Higher Education.”)

§ 359.67   Does Fiscal Service prohibit the issuance of Series I savings bonds in a chain letter scheme?

We do not permit bonds to be issued in a chain letter or pyramid scheme. We authorize an issuing agent to refuse to issue a bond or accept a purchase order if there is reason to believe that a purchase is connected with a chain letter. The agent's decision is final.

§ 359.68   [Reserved]


§ 359.69   Does Fiscal Service make any reservations as to issue of Series I savings bonds?

We may reject any application for Series I bonds, in whole or in part. We may refuse to issue, or permit to be issued, any bonds in any case or class of cases, if we deem the action to be in the public interest. Our action in any such respect is final.

§ 359.70   May Fiscal Service waive any provision in this part?

We may waive or modify any provision of this part in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship:
(a) If such action would not be inconsistent with law or equity;
(b) If it does not impair any material existing rights; and
(c) If we are satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 359.71   What is the role of Federal Reserve Banks and Branches?

(a) Federal Reserve Banks and Branches are fiscal agents of the United States. They are authorized to perform such services as we may request of them, in connection with the issue, servicing and redemption of Series I bonds.
(b) We have currently designated the following Federal Reserve Offices to provide savings bonds services:
Servicing site
Reserve district served
Geographic area served
Federal Reserve Bank, Buffalo Branch, 160 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14202
New York, Boston
Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey (Northern half), New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands.
Federal Reserve Bank, Pittsburgh Branch, 717 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15219
Cleveland, Philadelphia
Delaware, Kentucky (eastern half), New Jersey, (southern half), Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia (northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 701 East Byrd Street, Richmond, VA 23219
Richmond, Atlanta
Alabama, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana (southern half), Maryland, Mississippi (southern half), North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee (eastern half), Virginia, West Virginia (except northern panhandle).
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 90 Hennepin Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55401
Minneapolis, Chicago
Illinois (northern half), Indiana (northern half), Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin.
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 925 Grand Boulevard, Kansas City, MO 64106
Dallas, San Francisco, Kansas City, St. Louis
Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois (southern half), Indiana (southern half), Kansas, Kentucky (western half), Louisiana (northern half), Mississippi (northern half), Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon, Tennessee (western half), Texas, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Guam.

§ 359.72   May the United States supplement or amend the offering of Series I savings bonds?

We may supplement or amend the terms of this offering of Series I bonds at any time.

Appendix A to Part 359—Redemption Value Calculations

1. What are some general tax considerations?
Interest on savings bonds is subject to taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The bonds are exempt from taxation by any State or political subdivision of a State, except for estate or inheritance taxes. (See 31 U.S.C. 3124.)
2. What is an example of a book-entry Series I savings bonds redemption value calculation?
Assume a New Treasury Direct par investment amount in a book-entry Series I savings bonds of $34.59, with an issue date of May, 2001, and a redemption date of December, 2001. The published CRV for a definitive $100 Series I savings bonds issued May, 2001 and redeemed December, 2001 = $101.96.
Calculation:
[(Book-entry par investment) ÷ (100)] × CRV value for $100 bond
[(34.59 ÷ 100)] × 101.96
[0.3459] × 101.96
35.267964
= $35.27

Appendix B to Part 359—Composite Semiannual Rate Period Table

1. What months make up the composite semiannual rate period?
1. What months make up the composite semiannual rate period?
You may use the following table to find when a bond's semiannual rate period begins and when we'll announce the rate that applies during each period.
If your Bond has an issue date of—
Then its semiannual rate period begins—
We announce the rate that applies during a rate period in—
January
January 1
November 1 (of the previous year).
July 1
May 1.
February
February 1
November 1 (of the previous year).
August 1
May 1.
March
March 1
November 1 (of the previous year).
September 1
May 1.
April
April 1
November 1 (of the previous year).
October 1
May 1.
May
May 1
May 1.
November 1
November 1.
June
June 1
May 1.
December 1
November 1.
July
July 1
May 1.
January 1
November 1 (of the previous year).
August
August 1
May 1.
February 1
November 1 (of the previous year).
September
September 1
May 1
March 1
November 1 (of the previous year).
October
October 1
May 1.
April 1
November 1 (of the previous year).
November
November 1
November 1.
May 1
May 1.
December
December 1
November 1.
June 1
May 1.

Appendix C to Part 359—Investment Considerations

1. What are some index contingencies?
1. What are some index contingencies?
(a) If a previously reported CPI-U is revised, we will continue to use the previously reported CPI-U in calculating redemption values.
(b) If the CPI-U is rebased to a different year, we will continue to use the CPI-U based on the base reference period in effect when the security was first issued, as long as that CPI-U continues to be published.
(c) If, while an inflation-indexed savings bonds is outstanding, the applicable CPI-U is discontinued or, in the judgment of the Secretary, fundamentally altered in a manner materially adverse to the interests of an investor in the security, or, in the judgment of the Secretary, altered by legislation or Executive Order in a manner materially adverse to the interests of an investor in the security, Treasury, after consulting with the Bureau of Labor Statistics or any successor agency, will substitute an appropriate alternative index. Treasury will then notify the public of the substitute index and how it will be applied. The Secretary's determinations in this regard will be final.
(d) If the CPI-U for a particular month is not reported by the last day of the following month, we will announce an index number based on the last 12-month change in the CPI-U available. Any calculations of our payment obligations on the inflation-indexed savings bonds that rely on that month's CPI-U will be based on the index number that we have announced.
2. How will inflation lag affect my Series I savings bonds?
2. How will inflation lag affect my Series I savings bonds?
The inflation rate component of investor earnings will be determined twice each year. This rate will be the percentage change in the CPI-U for the six months ending each March and September. The rate will be included in the composite rate that is announced each May and November. For Series I bonds offered from September 1, 1998, through October 31, 1998, the inflation rate component of investor earnings will be the percentage change in the CPI-U for the six months ending March 31, 1998. This rate will be included in the composite rate that is announced for Series I bonds offered effective from September 1, 1998, through October 31, 1998. In the event the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, announces a composite rate at an effective date other than May 1 or November 1, the announcement will specify the period to be used to calculate the semiannual inflation rate. Each composite rate will be effective for the entirety of the applicable rate period that begins while the rate is in effect. Thus, an inflation rate may affect interest accruals from 3 to 13 months from the date that the CPI-U is measured.
Example 1.
The inflation rate determined from the CPI-U for the six-month period from October, 2003, through March, 2004, will be included in the composite rate announced in May, 2004. For a bond purchased in May 1999, this rate would go into effect immediately, since a new semiannual rate period for this bond will begin in May, 2004. Series I bonds issued in May begin new semiannual rate periods in the months of May and November. In this example, the inflation rate will have its earliest impact in June 2004, when interest from May accrues, three months after the end of the six-month CPI-U period that ends in March, 2004.
Example 2.
The May 1, 2004, rate will apply similarly to a bond purchased in October 1999. Series I bonds issued in October begin new semiannual rate periods in the months of April and October. Thus, for this bond, the May 1, 2004, composite rate (which includes the inflation rate) will not go into effect until a new semiannual rate period begins on October 1, 2004. This rate, therefore, will determine the inflation-indexed portion of each interest accrual from November, 2004, through April, 2005. In this example, the inflation rate will have its latest impact in April 2005, 13 months following the six-month CPI-U period that ended March 31, 2004.

Appendix D to Part 359—Tax Considerations

1. What are some general tax considerations?
1. What are some general tax considerations?
General. Interest is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The bonds are also subject to Federal and State estate, inheritance, gift, or other excise taxes. The bonds are exempt from all other taxation by any State or local taxing authority.
General.
Interest is subject to all taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The bonds are also subject to Federal and State estate, inheritance, gift, or other excise taxes. The bonds are exempt from all other taxation by any State or local taxing authority.
2. What reporting methods are available for savings bonds?
2. What reporting methods are available for savings bonds?
(a) Reporting methods. You may use either of the following two methods for reporting the increase in the redemption value of the bond for Federal income tax purposes:
Reporting methods.
You may use either of the following two methods for reporting the increase in the redemption value of the bond for Federal income tax purposes:
(1) Cash basis method. You may defer reporting the increase to the year of final maturity, redemption, or other disposition, whichever is earliest; or
Cash basis method.
You may defer reporting the increase to the year of final maturity, redemption, or other disposition, whichever is earliest; or
(2) Accrual basis method. You may elect to report the increase each year, in which case the election applies to all Series I bonds that you then own, those subsequently acquired, and to any other obligations purchased on a discount basis, such as savings bonds of Series E or EE.
Accrual basis method.
You may elect to report the increase each year, in which case the election applies to all Series I bonds that you then own, those subsequently acquired, and to any other obligations purchased on a discount basis, such as savings bonds of Series E or EE.
(b) Changing methods. If you use the cash basis method, you may change to the accrual basis method without obtaining permission from the Internal Revenue Service. However, once you elect to use the accrual basis method in paragraph (a)(2), you may change the method of reporting the increase only by following the specific procedures prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for making an automatic method change. For further information, you may contact the Internal Revenue Service director for your area, or the Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20224.
Changing methods.
If you use the cash basis method, you may change to the accrual basis method without obtaining permission from the Internal Revenue Service. However, once you elect to use the accrual basis method in paragraph (a)(2), you may change the method of reporting the increase only by following the specific procedures prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for making an automatic method change. For further information, you may contact the Internal Revenue Service director for your area, or the Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20224.
3. What transactions have potential tax consequences?
3. What transactions have potential tax consequences?
The following types of transactions, among others, may have potential tax consequences:
(a) A reissue that affects the rights of any of the persons named on a definitive Series I savings bonds may have tax consequences for the owner.
(b) The transfer of a book-entry Series I savings bonds from one owner to another may have tax consequences for the purchaser.
(c) The redemption of a book-entry Series I savings bonds by the secondary owner may have tax consequences for the primary owner.
(d) The purchase of a Series I savings bonds as a gift may have gift tax consequences for the purchaser.
[[67 FR 64278, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 24806, May 8, 2003]]

PART 360—REGULATIONS GOVERNING DEFINITIVE UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES I

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3105 and 3125.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3105 and 3125.
Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 360 appear at 79 FR 8860, Feb. 14, 2014.
[Source:63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 360.0   Applicability.

(a) The regulations in this part apply to definitive (paper) Series I savings bonds that have not been converted to book-entry bonds through TreasuryDirect®.
(b) The regulations in 31 CFR part 363 apply to:
(1) book-entry Series I savings bonds that were originally issued as book-entry bonds in TreasuryDirect®; and
(2) definitive Series I savings bonds that have been converted to book-entry bonds through TreasuryDirect®.
[[70 FR 14942, Mar. 23, 2005]]

§ 360.1   Official agencies.

(a) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service of the Department of the Treasury is responsible for administering the Savings Bonds Program. Authority to process transactions has been delegated to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and may be delegated to other Federal Reserve Banks and Branches as fiscal agents of the United States. The Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, and their authority to process transactions as fiscal agents of the United States, are subject to change as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, or his or her designee.
(b) Information about savings bonds and savings bond transactions, including savings bond transaction forms and email contact information, is available through the Bureau of the Fiscal Service's Web site at http://www.treasurydirect.gov. Communications concerning transactions and requests for forms may also be addressed to:
http://www.treasurydirect.gov.
Communications concerning transactions and requests for forms may also be addressed to:
(1) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service, P.O. Box 7012, Parkersburg, WV 26106-7012; or
(2) The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Treasury Retail Securities Site, P.O. Box 214, Minneapolis, MN 55480-0214.
(c) Notices and documents must be filed with the agencies referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and as indicated in the regulations in this part.
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 8859, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 360.2   Definitions.

(a) Bond, or Series I savings bonds, as used in this part, means a definitive United States Savings Bonds of Series I.
Bond,
or
Series I savings bonds,
as used in this part, means a definitive United States Savings Bonds of Series I.
(b) Book-entry bond means a savings bond maintained by Treasury in electronic or paperless form as a computer record.
Book-entry bond
means a savings bond maintained by Treasury in electronic or paperless form as a computer record.
(c) Converted savings bond means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Converted savings
bond means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
(d) Incompetent means an individual who is incapable of handling his or her business affairs because of a legal, mental or medical disability, except that a minor is not an incompetent solely because of age.
Incompetent
means an individual who is incapable of handling his or her business affairs because of a legal, mental or medical disability, except that a minor is not an incompetent solely because of age.
(e) Inscription means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
Inscription
means the information that is printed on the face of the bond.
(f) Issuing agent means an organization that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 4-67, as revised and amended (31 CFR part 317), to issue savings bonds.
Issuing agent
means an organization that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 4-67, as revised and amended (31 CFR part 317), to issue savings bonds.
(g) Paying agent means a financial institution that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, as revised and amended (31 CFR part 321), to make payment of savings bonds.
Paying agent
means a financial institution that has been qualified under the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 750, as revised and amended (31 CFR part 321), to make payment of savings bonds.
(h) Payment means redemption, unless otherwise indicated by the context.
Payment
means redemption, unless otherwise indicated by the context.
(i) Person means a legal entity including an individual or fiduciary estate.
Person
means a legal entity including an individual or fiduciary estate.
(j) Personal trust estates means trust estates established by natural persons in their own right for the benefit of themselves or other natural persons in whole or in part, and common trust funds comprised in whole or in part of such trust estates.
Personal trust estates
means trust estates established by natural persons in their own right for the benefit of themselves or other natural persons in whole or in part, and common trust funds comprised in whole or in part of such trust estates.
(k) Registration means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
Registration
means that the names of all persons named on the bond and the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the owner, first-named coowner, or purchaser of a gift bond are maintained on our records.
(l) Reissue means the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a new bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount. Reissue may also mean the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a book-entry bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount. All reissues are subject to the restrictions in § 360.48.
Reissue
means the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a new bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount. Reissue may also mean the cancellation and retirement of a bond and the issuance of a book-entry bond or bonds of the same series, same issue date, and same total face amount. All reissues are subject to the restrictions in § 360.48.
(m) Representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al. means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the individual. The term does not include parents in their own right, voluntary or natural guardians, attorneys-in-fact, trustees of personal and similar trust estates, or the executors or administrators of decedents' estates.
Representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al.
means the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the individual. The term does not include parents in their own right, voluntary or natural guardians, attorneys-in-fact, trustees of personal and similar trust estates, or the executors or administrators of decedents' estates.
(n) Substitute bond means a bond or book-entry bond issued as a result of a claim or application for relief under subpart F of this part.
Substitute bond
means a bond or book-entry bond issued as a result of a claim or application for relief under subpart F of this part.
(o) Surrender means the actual receipt of a definitive bond with an appropriate request for payment or reissue by either a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or, if a paying agent is authorized to handle the transaction, the actual receipt of the definitive bond and the request for payment by the paying agent.
Surrender
means the actual receipt of a definitive bond with an appropriate request for payment or reissue by either a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, or, if a paying agent is authorized to handle the transaction, the actual receipt of the definitive bond and the request for payment by the paying agent.
(p) Taxpayer Identifying Number means a social security account number or an employer identification number.
Taxpayer Identifying Number
means a social security account number or an employer identification number.
(q) Voluntary guardian means an individual who is recognized as authorized to act for an incompetent, as provided by § 360.64.
Voluntary guardian
means an individual who is recognized as authorized to act for an incompetent, as provided by § 360.64.
(r) Voluntary representative means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or distribution of a decedent's savings bonds pursuant to § 360.71.
Voluntary representative
means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to request payment or distribution of a decedent's savings bonds pursuant to § 360.71.
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 64268, Oct. 17, 2002; 70 FR 14942, Mar. 23, 2005; 70 FR 57432, Sept. 30, 2005; 71 FR 46858, Aug. 15, 2006; 79 FR 8860, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 360.3   Converting definitive savings bonds to book-entry bonds in TreasuryDirect®.

Series I savings bonds that were originally issued as definitive bonds may be converted to book-entry bonds through TreasuryDirect®, an online system for holding Treasury securities. The Web address for TreasuryDirect® is www.treasurydirect.gov. Bond owners who wish to convert their definitive savings bonds should follow online instructions for conversion. Regulations governing converted bonds are found at 31 CFR part 363.
www.treasurydirect.gov.
Bond owners who wish to convert their definitive savings bonds should follow online instructions for conversion. Regulations governing converted bonds are found at 31 CFR part 363.
[[70 FR 14942, Mar. 23, 2005]]

Subpart B—Registration


§ 360.5   General rules.

(a) Registration is conclusive of ownership. Definitive savings bonds were issued only in registered form. The registration must express the actual ownership of, and interest in, the bond. The registration is conclusive of ownership, except as provided in § 360.49.
Registration is conclusive of ownership.
Definitive savings bonds were issued only in registered form. The registration must express the actual ownership of, and interest in, the bond. The registration is conclusive of ownership, except as provided in § 360.49.
(b) Requests for registration. (1) Registrations requested must be clear, accurate and complete, conform substantially with one of the forms set forth in this subpart, and include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named coowner. The registration of all bonds owned by the same individual or fiduciary estate should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and any description of the fiduciary capacity.
Requests for registration.
(1) Registrations requested must be clear, accurate and complete, conform substantially with one of the forms set forth in this subpart, and include the taxpayer identifying number of the owner or first-named coowner. The registration of all bonds owned by the same individual or fiduciary estate should be uniform with respect to the name of the owner and any description of the fiduciary capacity.
(2) An individual should be designated by the name he or she is ordinarily known by or uses in business, including at least one full given name. The name may be preceded or followed by any applicable title, such as Mr., Mrs., Ms., Miss, Dr., Rev., M.D., or D.D. A suffix, such as Sr. or Jr., must be included when ordinarily used or when necessary to distinguish the owner from another member of his family. A married woman's own first name, not that of her husband, must be used, for example, Mary A. Jones or Mrs. Mary A. Jones, NOT Mrs. Frank B. Jones. The address must include, where appropriate, the number and street, route, or any other local feature, city, State, and ZIP Code.
(c) Registration of bonds purchased as gifts. If the bonds were purchased as gifts, awards, prizes, etc., and the taxpayer identifying numbers of the intended owners are not known, the purchaser's number must be furnished. Bonds so registered will not be associated with the purchaser's own holdings. A bond registered in the name of a purchaser with another person as coowner or beneficiary is not considered a gift or an award. If the purchaser so requests, a bond may be inscribed to provide a “Mail to” instruction, followed by a delivery name and address. No rights of ownership are conferred on such designee.
Registration of bonds purchased as gifts.
If the bonds were purchased as gifts, awards, prizes, etc., and the taxpayer identifying numbers of the intended owners are not known, the purchaser's number must be furnished. Bonds so registered will not be associated with the purchaser's own holdings. A bond registered in the name of a purchaser with another person as coowner or beneficiary is not considered a gift or an award. If the purchaser so requests, a bond may be inscribed to provide a “Mail to” instruction, followed by a delivery name and address. No rights of ownership are conferred on such designee.
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 71 FR 46858, Aug. 15, 2006; 76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011]]

§ 360.6   Authorized forms of registration.

Subject to any limitations or restrictions contained in these regulations on the right of any person to be named as owner, coowner, or beneficiary, bonds should be registered as indicated in this section. A savings bond registered in a form not substantially in agreement with one of the forms authorized by this subpart is not considered validly issued.
(a) Natural persons. A bond may be registered in the names of individuals in their own right, but only in one of the forms authorized by this paragraph (a).
Natural persons.
A bond may be registered in the names of individuals in their own right, but only in one of the forms authorized by this paragraph (a).
(1) Single ownership form. A bond may be registered in the name of one individual.
Single ownership form.
A bond may be registered in the name of one individual.
Example:
Julie B. Jones, 123-45-6789.
(2) Coownership form. A bond may be registered in the names of two individuals in the alternative as coowners. The form of registration “A and B” is not authorized.
Coownership form.
A bond may be registered in the names of two individuals in the alternative as coowners. The form of registration “A and B” is not authorized.
Examples:
David R. Johnson 123-45-6789 or Anna B. Johnson. Maria S. Gonzalez 987-65-4321 or Juan C. Gonzalez.
(3) Beneficiary form. A bond may be registered in the name of one individual payable on death to another. “Payable on death to” may be abbreviated to “P.O.D.”.
Beneficiary form.
A bond may be registered in the name of one individual payable on death to another. “Payable on death to” may be abbreviated to “P.O.D.”.
Examples:
Catherine B. Jordan 123-45-6789 payable on death to Daniel A. Jordan. Henry C. Rodriguez 123-45-6789 P.O.D. Maria S. Rodriguez.
(b) Fiduciaries (including legal guardians, trustees, and similar representatives)—(1) General. A bond may be registered in the name of any person or persons or any organization acting as fiduciary of a single fiduciary estate, but not where the fiduciary will hold the bond merely or principally as security for the performance of a duty, obligation, or service. A bond's registration should conform to a form authorized by this paragraph. A common trust fund established and maintained by a financial institution authorized to act as a fiduciary will be considered a single fiduciary estate within the meaning of the regulations in this part.
Fiduciaries (including legal guardians, trustees, and similar representatives)
—(1)
General.
A bond may be registered in the name of any person or persons or any organization acting as fiduciary of a single fiduciary estate, but not where the fiduciary will hold the bond merely or principally as security for the performance of a duty, obligation, or service. A bond's registration should conform to a form authorized by this paragraph. A common trust fund established and maintained by a financial institution authorized to act as a fiduciary will be considered a single fiduciary estate within the meaning of the regulations in this part.
(2) Legal guardians, conservators, similar representatives, certain custodians, etc. A bond may be registered in the name and fiduciary capacity of the legally appointed or authorized representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged or infirm person, absentee, et al., or of a personal or testamentary trust.
Legal guardians, conservators, similar representatives, certain custodians, etc.
A bond may be registered in the name and fiduciary capacity of the legally appointed or authorized representative of the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged or infirm person, absentee, et al., or of a personal or testamentary trust.
Examples:
Tenth National Bank, Guardian (or Conservator, Trustee, etc.) of the Estate of George N. Brown 123-45-6789, a minor (or an incompetent, aged person, infirm person, or absentee). Henry C. Smith, Conservator of the Estate of John R. White 123-45-6789, an adult, pursuant to Sec. 633.572 of the Iowa Code. Juan B. Gonzalez 123-45-6789, a minor (or an incompetent) under custodianship by designation of the Veterans Administration. Frank M. Redd 123-45-6789, an incompetent for whom Eric A. Redd has been designated trustee by the Department of the Army pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 602. Richard A. Rowe 123-45-6789, for whom Reba L. Rowe is representative payee for social security benefits (or black lung benefits, as the case may be). Henry L. Green 123-45-6789 or George M. Brown, a minor under legal guardianship of the Tenth National Bank. Henry L. Green 123-45-6789 P.O.D. George M. Brown, a minor under legal guardianship of the Tenth National Bank. Harbor State Hospital and School, selected payee for Beth R. Weber 123-45-6789, a Civil Service annuitant, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 8345(e). John F. Green or Mary B. Doe, Trustees of the Estate of Moe Green 123-45-6789. Thomas J. White and Tenth National Bank, Trustees under the Will of Robert J. Benjamin, deceased 12-3456789. Tenth National Bank, Trustee under Agreement with Mark S. Dunston, dated 2/1/98, 12-3456789. Ruth B. Grace and Pat A. Banks, Trustees under Agreement with Susan L. Chambers, dated 7/30/97, 12-3456789. Dennis R. Adams, Trustee under Declaration of Trust, dated 5/1/98, 12-3456789.
(3) Employee thrift, savings, vacation and similar plans. Bonds may be registered in the name and title, or title alone, of the trustee of an eligible employee thrift, savings, vacation, 401(k) or similar plan, as defined in § 360.13. If the instrument creating the trust provides that the trustees shall serve for a limited term, their names may be omitted.
Employee thrift, savings, vacation and similar plans.
Bonds may be registered in the name and title, or title alone, of the trustee of an eligible employee thrift, savings, vacation, 401(k) or similar plan, as defined in § 360.13. If the instrument creating the trust provides that the trustees shall serve for a limited term, their names may be omitted.
Examples:
Tenth National Bank, trustee of Pension Fund of Safety Manufacturing Company, U/A with the company, dated March 31, 1996, 12-3456789.
Trustees of Retirement Fund of Safety Manufacturing Company, under directors' resolution adopted March 31, 1996, 12-3456789.
County Trust Company, trustee of the Employee Savings Plan of Jones Company, Inc., U/A dated January 17, 1996, 12-3456789.
Trustees of the Employee Savings Plan of Brown Brothers, Inc., U/A dated January 20, 1996, 12-3456789.
(c) The United States Treasury. A person who desires to have a bond become the property of the United States upon his or her death may designate the United States Treasury as beneficiary.
The United States Treasury.
A person who desires to have a bond become the property of the United States upon his or her death may designate the United States Treasury as beneficiary.
Example:
George T. Jones 123-45-6789 P.O.D. the United States Treasury.
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 71 FR 46858, Aug. 15, 2006]]

§ 360.7   Chain letters prohibited.

The issuance of bonds in the furtherance of a chain letter, pyramid, or similar scheme is against the public interest and is prohibited.

Subpart C—Limitations on Annual Purchases


§ 360.10   Amounts which may be purchased.

The amount of savings bonds of Series I which may be purchased and held, in the name of any one person in any one calendar year, is computed according to the provisions of § 360.11 and is limited as follows:
(a) General annual limitation, $5,000 (par value).
(b) Special limitation, $4,000 (par value) multiplied by the highest number of employees participating in an eligible employee plan, as defined in § 360.13, at any time during the calendar year in which the bonds are issued.
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 67854, Dec. 3, 2007]]

§ 360.11   Computation of amount.

(a) General. The purchases of bonds in the name of any person in an individual capacity are computed separately from purchases in a fiduciary capacity, e.g., as representative for the estate of an individual.
General.
The purchases of bonds in the name of any person in an individual capacity are computed separately from purchases in a fiduciary capacity, e.g., as representative for the estate of an individual.
(b) Bonds included in computation. In computing the purchases for each person, the following outstanding bonds are included:
Bonds included in computation.
In computing the purchases for each person, the following outstanding bonds are included:
(1) All bonds registered in the name and bearing the taxpayer identifying number of that person alone;
(2) All bonds registered in the name of the representative of the estate of that person and bearing that person's taxpayer identifying number; and
(3) All bonds registered in the name of that person as coowner that also bear that person's taxpayer identifying number.
(c) Bonds excluded from computation. In computing the purchases for each person, the following are excluded:
Bonds excluded from computation.
In computing the purchases for each person, the following are excluded:
(1) Bonds on which that person is named beneficiary;
(2) Bonds to which that person has become entitled—
(i) Under § 360.70 as surviving beneficiary upon the death of the registered owner;
(ii) As an heir or a legatee of the deceased owner;
(iii) By virtue of the termination of a trust or the happening of a similar event; and
(3) Bonds that are purchased and redeemed within the same calendar year.

§ 360.12   Disposition of excess.

If any person at any time has savings bonds issued during any one calendar year in excess of the prescribed amount, instructions should be obtained from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328, for appropriate adjustment of the excess. Under the conditions specified in § 360.90, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service may permit excess purchases to stand in any particular case or class of cases.

§ 360.13   Employee plans—Conditions of eligibility.

(a) Definition of plan. Employee thrift, savings, vacation, 401(k), and similar plans are contributory plans established by the employer for the exclusive and irrevocable benefit of its employees or their beneficiaries. Each plan must afford employees the means of making regular savings from their wages through payroll deductions and provide for employer contributions to be added to these savings.
Definition of plan.
Employee thrift, savings, vacation, 401(k), and similar plans are contributory plans established by the employer for the exclusive and irrevocable benefit of its employees or their beneficiaries. Each plan must afford employees the means of making regular savings from their wages through payroll deductions and provide for employer contributions to be added to these savings.
(b) Definition of terms used in this section. (1) The term assets means all the employees' contributions and assets purchased with them and the employer's contributions and assets purchased with them, as well as accretions, such as dividends on stock, the increment in value on bonds and all other income; but, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the right to demand and receive all assets credited to the account of an employee shall not be construed to require the distribution of assets in kind when it would not be possible or practicable to make such a distribution; for example, Series I bonds may not be reissued in unauthorized denominations.
Definition of terms used in this section.
(1) The term
assets
means all the employees' contributions and assets purchased with them and the employer's contributions and assets purchased with them, as well as accretions, such as dividends on stock, the increment in value on bonds and all other income; but, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the right to demand and receive all assets credited to the account of an employee shall not be construed to require the distribution of assets in kind when it would not be possible or practicable to make such a distribution; for example, Series I bonds may not be reissued in unauthorized denominations.
(2) The word beneficiary means:
beneficiary
means:
(i) The person or persons, if any, designated by the employee in accordance with the terms of the plan to receive the benefits of the plan upon the employee's death; or
(ii) The estate of the employee.
(c) Conditions of eligibility. An employee plan must conform to the following rules in order to be eligible for the special limitation provided in § 360.10.
Conditions of eligibility.
An employee plan must conform to the following rules in order to be eligible for the special limitation provided in § 360.10.
(1) Crediting of assets. All assets of a plan must be credited to the individual accounts of participating employees and may be distributed only to them or their beneficiaries, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
Crediting of assets.
All assets of a plan must be credited to the individual accounts of participating employees and may be distributed only to them or their beneficiaries, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2) Purchase of bonds. Bonds may be purchased only with assets credited to the accounts of participating employees and only if the amount taken from any account at any time for that purpose is equal to the purchase price of a $50 bond or bonds in an authorized denomination or denominations, and shares in the bonds are credited to the accounts of the individuals from which the purchase price was derived, in amounts corresponding with their shares. For example, if $100 credited to the account of John Jones is commingled with funds credited to the accounts of other employees to make a total of $5,000 with which a Series I bond in the denomination of $5,000 (face amount) is purchased in December 1998 and registered in the name and title of the trustee, the plan must provide, in effect, that John Jones' account be credited to show that he is the owner of a Series I bond in the denomination of $100 (face amount) bearing an issue date of December 1, 1998.
Purchase of bonds.
Bonds may be purchased only with assets credited to the accounts of participating employees and only if the amount taken from any account at any time for that purpose is equal to the purchase price of a $50 bond or bonds in an authorized denomination or denominations, and shares in the bonds are credited to the accounts of the individuals from which the purchase price was derived, in amounts corresponding with their shares. For example, if $100 credited to the account of John Jones is commingled with funds credited to the accounts of other employees to make a total of $5,000 with which a Series I bond in the denomination of $5,000 (face amount) is purchased in December 1998 and registered in the name and title of the trustee, the plan must provide, in effect, that John Jones' account be credited to show that he is the owner of a Series I bond in the denomination of $100 (face amount) bearing an issue date of December 1, 1998.
(3) Irrevocable right of withdrawal. Each participating employee has an irrevocable right to request and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the employee's account (or their value, if the employee prefers) without regard to any conditions other than the loss or suspension of the privilege of participating further in the plan. A plan may limit or modify such right in any manner required for qualification of the plan under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 401).
Irrevocable right of withdrawal.
Each participating employee has an irrevocable right to request and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the employee's account (or their value, if the employee prefers) without regard to any conditions other than the loss or suspension of the privilege of participating further in the plan. A plan may limit or modify such right in any manner required for qualification of the plan under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 401).
(4) Rights of beneficiary. Upon the death of an employee, his or her beneficiary shall have the absolute and unconditional right to demand and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the account of the employee or their value, if he or she so prefers.
Rights of beneficiary.
Upon the death of an employee, his or her beneficiary shall have the absolute and unconditional right to demand and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the account of the employee or their value, if he or she so prefers.
(5) Reissue or payment upon distribution. (i) When settlement is made with an employee or his or her beneficiary with respect to any bond registered in the name and title of the plan trustee in which the employee has a share, the bond must be paid or reissued to the extent of the share.
Reissue or payment upon distribution.
(i) When settlement is made with an employee or his or her beneficiary with respect to any bond registered in the name and title of the plan trustee in which the employee has a share, the bond must be paid or reissued to the extent of the share.
(ii) If an employee or the beneficiary is to receive distribution in kind, bonds bearing the same issue dates as those credited to the employee's account will be reissued in the name of the employee or the employee's beneficiary to the extent entitled, in authorized denominations, in any authorized form of registration, upon the request and certification of the trustee.
(d) Application for special limitation. A trustee of an employee plan who desires to purchase bonds under the special limitation should submit to the designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch a copy of:
Application for special limitation.
A trustee of an employee plan who desires to purchase bonds under the special limitation should submit to the designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch a copy of:
(1) The plan;
(2) Any instructions issued under the plan that concern Series I bonds; and
(3) The trust agreement, in order to establish the plan's eligibility.
(e) Vacation plans. Savings bonds may be purchased under certain vacation plans. Questions concerning the eligibility of these plans to purchase bonds in excess of the general limitation should be addressed to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
Vacation plans.
Savings bonds may be purchased under certain vacation plans. Questions concerning the eligibility of these plans to purchase bonds in excess of the general limitation should be addressed to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.

Subpart D—Limitations on Transfer or Pledge


§ 360.15   Transfer.

Savings bonds are not transferable and are payable only to the owners named on the bonds, except as specifically provided in these regulations and then only in the manner and to the extent so provided.

§ 360.16   Pledge.

A savings bond may not be hypothecated, pledged, or used as security for the performance of an obligation.

Subpart E—Judicial Proceedings


§ 360.20   General.

(a) The Department of the Treasury will not recognize a judicial determination that gives effect to an attempted voluntary inter vivos transfer of a bond, or a judicial determination that impairs the rights of survivorship conferred by the regulations in this part upon a coowner or beneficiary. All provisions of this subpart are subject to these restrictions, except as provided in § 360.24.
(b) The Department of the Treasury will recognize a claim against an owner of a savings bond and conflicting claims of ownership of, or interest in, a bond between coowners or between the registered owner and the beneficiary, if established by valid, judicial proceedings specifically listed in this subpart. Escheat proceedings will not be recognized under this subpart. Section 360.23 specifies evidence required to establish the validity of judicial proceedings. Treasury may require any other evidence to establish the validity of judicial proceedings, such as evidence that the proceeding provided due process, complied with this part, and complied with relevant state law.
(c) The Department of the Treasury and the agencies that issue, reissue, or redeem savings bonds will not accept a notice of an adverse claim or notice of pending judicial proceedings, nor undertake to protect the interests of a litigant not in possession of a savings bond.
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 80 FR 80265, Dec. 24, 2015]]

§ 360.21   Payment to judgment creditors.

(a) Purchaser or officer under levy. The Department of the Treasury will pay (but not reissue) a savings bond to the purchaser at a sale under a levy or to the officer authorized under appropriate process to levy upon property of the registered owner or coowner to satisfy a money judgment. Payment will be made only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment. The amount paid is limited to the redemption value 60 days after the termination of the judicial proceedings. Except in the case of a levy by the Internal Revenue Service, payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to a judgment or a levy against only one coowner is limited to the extent of that coowner's interest in the bond. That interest must be established by an agreement between the coowners or by a judgment, decree, or order of a court in a proceeding to which both coowners are parties. Payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to a levy by the Internal Revenue Service will be made if the levy is against either coowner on the bond.
Purchaser or officer under levy.
The Department of the Treasury will pay (but not reissue) a savings bond to the purchaser at a sale under a levy or to the officer authorized under appropriate process to levy upon property of the registered owner or coowner to satisfy a money judgment. Payment will be made only to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment. The amount paid is limited to the redemption value 60 days after the termination of the judicial proceedings. Except in the case of a levy by the Internal Revenue Service, payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to a judgment or a levy against only one coowner is limited to the extent of that coowner's interest in the bond. That interest must be established by an agreement between the coowners or by a judgment, decree, or order of a court in a proceeding to which both coowners are parties. Payment of a bond registered in coownership form pursuant to a levy by the Internal Revenue Service will be made if the levy is against either coowner on the bond.
(b) Trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, or similar court officer. The Department of the Treasury will pay, at current redemption value, a savings bond to a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
Trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, or similar court officer.
The Department of the Treasury will pay, at current redemption value, a savings bond to a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer under the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.

§ 360.22   Payment or reissue pursuant to divorce.

(a) Divorce. (1) The Department of the Treasury will recognize a divorce decree that ratifies or confirms a property settlement agreement disposing of bonds or that otherwise settles the interests of the parties in a bond. Reissue of a savings bond may be made to eliminate the name of one spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary or to substitute the name of one spouse for that of the other spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary pursuant to the decree. However, if the bond is registered in the name of one spouse with another person as coowner, there must be submitted either:
Divorce.
(1) The Department of the Treasury will recognize a divorce decree that ratifies or confirms a property settlement agreement disposing of bonds or that otherwise settles the interests of the parties in a bond. Reissue of a savings bond may be made to eliminate the name of one spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary or to substitute the name of one spouse for that of the other spouse as owner, coowner, or beneficiary pursuant to the decree. However, if the bond is registered in the name of one spouse with another person as coowner, there must be submitted either:
(i) A request for reissue by the other person; or
(ii) a certified copy of a judgment, decree, or court order entered in proceedings to which the other person and the spouse named on the bond are parties, determining the extent of the interest of that spouse in the bond. Reissue will be permitted only to the extent of that spouse's interest.
(2) The evidence required under § 360.23 must be submitted in every case. When the divorce decree does not set out the terms of the property settlement agreement, a certified copy of the agreement must be submitted. Payment, rather than reissue, will be made if requested.
(b) Date for determining rights. When payment or reissue under this section is to be made, the rights of the parties will be those existing under the regulations current at the time of the entry of the final judgment, decree, or court order.
Date for determining rights.
When payment or reissue under this section is to be made, the rights of the parties will be those existing under the regulations current at the time of the entry of the final judgment, decree, or court order.

§ 360.23   Evidence.

(a) General. To establish the validity of judicial proceedings, certified copies of the final judgment, decree, or court order, and of any necessary supplementary proceedings, must be submitted. If the judgment, decree, or court order was rendered more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond, there must also be submitted a certification from the clerk of the court, under court seal, dated within six months of the presentation of the bond, showing that the judgment, decree, or court order is in full force.
General.
To establish the validity of judicial proceedings, certified copies of the final judgment, decree, or court order, and of any necessary supplementary proceedings, must be submitted. If the judgment, decree, or court order was rendered more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond, there must also be submitted a certification from the clerk of the court, under court seal, dated within six months of the presentation of the bond, showing that the judgment, decree, or court order is in full force.
(b) Trustee in bankruptcy or receiver of an insolvent's estate. A request for payment by a trustee in bankruptcy or a receiver of an insolvent's estate must be supported by appropriate evidence of appointment and qualification. The evidence must be certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
Trustee in bankruptcy or receiver of an insolvent's estate.
A request for payment by a trustee in bankruptcy or a receiver of an insolvent's estate must be supported by appropriate evidence of appointment and qualification. The evidence must be certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
(c) Receiver in equity or similar court officer. A request for payment by a receiver in equity or a similar court officer, other than a receiver of an insolvent's estate, must be supported by a copy of an order that authorizes the presentation of the bond for redemption, certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.
Receiver in equity or similar court officer.
A request for payment by a receiver in equity or a similar court officer, other than a receiver of an insolvent's estate, must be supported by a copy of an order that authorizes the presentation of the bond for redemption, certified by the clerk of the court, under court seal, as being in full force on a date that is not more than six months prior to the presentation of the bond.

§ 360.24   Payment pursuant to judicial or administrative forfeiture.

(a) Definitions. As used in this part:
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(1) Contact point means the individual designated to receive referrals from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, as provided for in this section, by the Federal investigative agency, United States Attorney's Office, or forfeiting agency specified in Fiscal Service Form 1522.
Contact point
means the individual designated to receive referrals from the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, as provided for in this section, by the Federal investigative agency, United States Attorney's Office, or forfeiting agency specified in Fiscal Service Form 1522.
(2) Forfeiting agency means the federal law enforcement agency responsible for the forfeiture.
Forfeiting agency
means the federal law enforcement agency responsible for the forfeiture.
(3) Forfeiture. (i) Administrative forfeiture means the process by which property may be forfeited by a federal agency rather than through judicial proceedings.
Forfeiture.
(i)
Administrative forfeiture
means the process by which property may be forfeited by a federal agency rather than through judicial proceedings.
(ii) Judicial forfeiture means either a civil or a criminal proceeding in a United States District Court that may result in a final judgment and order of forfeiture.
Judicial forfeiture
means either a civil or a criminal proceeding in a United States District Court that may result in a final judgment and order of forfeiture.
(4) Fiscal Service Form 1522 means the written notification of the forfeiture provided by the forfeiting agency to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service on a Fiscal Service Form 1522 SPECIAL FORM OF REQUEST FOR PAYMENT OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS AND RETIREMENT SECURITIES WHERE USE OF A DETACHED REQUEST IS AUTHORIZED. Fiscal Service Form 1522 must specify: the contact point; the issue date of each bond; the serial number for each bond; the date of forfeiture; the forfeiture fund to which payment is to be made; and be signed by an individual authorized by the forfeiting agency. The forfeited bonds and the completed Fiscal Service Form 1522 are to be mailed to the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
Fiscal Service Form 1522
means the written notification of the forfeiture provided by the forfeiting agency to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service on a Fiscal Service Form 1522 SPECIAL FORM OF REQUEST FOR PAYMENT OF UNITED STATES SAVINGS AND RETIREMENT SECURITIES WHERE USE OF A DETACHED REQUEST IS AUTHORIZED. Fiscal Service Form 1522 must specify: the contact point; the issue date of each bond; the serial number for each bond; the date of forfeiture; the forfeiture fund to which payment is to be made; and be signed by an individual authorized by the forfeiting agency. The forfeited bonds and the completed Fiscal Service Form 1522 are to be mailed to the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
(b) Forfeiture of bond. (1) Upon receipt and review of the Fiscal Service Form 1522, as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will make payment to the forfeiture fund specified on the form.
Forfeiture of bond.
(1) Upon receipt and review of the Fiscal Service Form 1522, as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service will make payment to the forfeiture fund specified on the form.
(2) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will record the forfeiture, the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were paid, the contact point, and any related information.
(3) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will rely exclusively upon the information provided by the Federal agency in the Fiscal Service Form 1522 and will not make any independent evaluation of the validity of the forfeiture order, the request for payment, or the authority of the individual signing the request for payment.
(4) The amount paid is limited to the redemption value of the savings bonds as of the date of forfeiture specified in the Fiscal Service Form 1522.
(c) Inquiry from previous owner. (1) Upon payment made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, all inquiries from the previous owner, including requests for payment, reissue, or applications for relief, related to forfeited savings bonds, will be referred by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to the contact point named in the Fiscal Service Form 1522.
Inquiry from previous owner.
(1) Upon payment made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, all inquiries from the previous owner, including requests for payment, reissue, or applications for relief, related to forfeited savings bonds, will be referred by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to the contact point named in the Fiscal Service Form 1522.
(2) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will notify the submitter of the inquiry of the referral to the contact point.
(3) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will not investigate the inquiry and will defer to the forfeiting agency's determination of the appropriate course of action, including settlement where appropriate. Any settlement will be paid from the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were deposited.

Subpart F—Relief for Loss, Theft, Destruction, Mutilation, Defacement, or Nonreceipt of Bonds


§ 360.25   General.

Relief, by the issue of a substitute bond or by payment, is authorized for the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of a bond after receipt by the owner or his or her representative. As a condition for granting relief, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may require a bond of indemnity, in the form, and with the surety, or security, he or she considers necessary to protect the interests of the United States. In all cases, the claimant or claimants must identify the lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced savings bond or savings bonds by serial number or serial numbers and must submit satisfactory evidence of the loss, theft, or destruction, or a satisfactory explanation of the mutilation or defacement.

§ 360.26   Application for relief; after receipt of bond.

(a) If the serial numbers of the lost, stolen, or destroyed bonds are known, the claimant should execute an application for relief on the appropriate form and submit it to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.
(b) If the bond serial numbers are not known, the claimant must provide sufficient information to enable the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to identify the bond by serial number. See § 360.29(c). The Bureau will furnish the proper application form and instructions.
(c) A defaced bond and all available fragments of a mutilated bond should be submitted to a Federal Reserve Office listed in § 360.1(b)(2) or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
(d) The application must be made by the person or persons (including both coowners, if living) authorized under the regulations in this part to request payment of the bond. In addition:
(1) If the bond is in beneficiary form and the owner and beneficiary are both living, the application must be made by the owner, and the beneficiary may also be required to join in the application to protect the interests of the United States.
(2) If a minor named on a bond as owner, coowner, or beneficiary is not of sufficient competency and understanding to request payment, the parents or other person authorized to request payment under § 360.63 will ordinarily be required to join in the application.
(e) If the application is approved on or before February 14, 2014, relief will be granted either by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment. If the application is approved after February 14, 2014, relief will be granted either by the issuance of a book-entry bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by payment.
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 8860, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 360.27   Application for relief; nonreceipt of bond.

If a bond issued on any transaction is not received, the issuing agent must be notified as promptly as possible and given all information available about the nonreceipt. An appropriate form and instructions will be provided. If the application is approved on or before February 14, 2014, relief will be granted by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond that was not received. If the application is approved after February 14, 2014, relief will be granted by the issuance of a book-entry bond bearing the same issue date as the bond that was not received or by payment. Also, relief is authorized for the issuance of bonds for which the Secretary has not received payment, in order to preserve public confidence in dealing with issuing agents.
[[79 FR 8860, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 360.28   Recovery or receipt of bond before or after relief is granted.

(a) If a bond reported lost, stolen, destroyed, or not received, is recovered or received before relief is granted, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328, must be notified promptly.
(b) A bond for which relief has been granted is the property of the United States and, if recovered, must be promptly submitted to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, 26106-1328, for cancellation.

§ 360.29   Adjudication of claims.

(a) General. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will adjudicate claims for lost, stolen or destroyed bonds on the basis of records created and regularly maintained in the ordinary course of business.
General.
The Bureau of the Fiscal Service will adjudicate claims for lost, stolen or destroyed bonds on the basis of records created and regularly maintained in the ordinary course of business.
(b) Claims filed 10 years after payment. Any claim filed 10 years or more after the recorded date of redemption or other retirement will be barred.
Claims filed 10 years after payment.
Any claim filed 10 years or more after the recorded date of redemption or other retirement will be barred.
(c) Claims filed 10 years after maturity. Any claim filed 10 years or more after the maturity of a savings bond will be barred.
Claims filed 10 years after maturity.
Any claim filed 10 years or more after the maturity of a savings bond will be barred.

Subpart G—General Provisions for Payment


§ 360.35   Payment (redemption).

(a) General. Payment of a Series I savings bond will be made to the person or persons entitled under the provisions of the regulations in this part, except that the redemption payment will not be delivered to addresses in areas with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of remittances, including checks and electronic payments, drawn against funds of the United States. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Payment will be made without regard to any notice of adverse claims to a bond and no stoppage or caveat against payment of a bond will be entered.
General.
Payment of a Series I savings bond will be made to the person or persons entitled under the provisions of the regulations in this part, except that the redemption payment will not be delivered to addresses in areas with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of remittances, including checks and electronic payments, drawn against funds of the United States. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211). Payment will be made without regard to any notice of adverse claims to a bond and no stoppage or caveat against payment of a bond will be entered.
(b) Mandatory initial holding period. A Series I bond issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, will be paid at any time after six months from issue date. A Series I bond issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter, will be paid at any time after 12 months from issue date. Bonds will be paid at the current redemption value determined in the manner described in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 1-98 (31 CFR part 359).
Mandatory initial holding period.
A Series I bond issued on January 1, 2003, or earlier, will be paid at any time after six months from issue date. A Series I bond issued on February 1, 2003, or thereafter, will be paid at any time after 12 months from issue date. Bonds will be paid at the current redemption value determined in the manner described in Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 1-98 (31 CFR part 359).
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 2667, Jan. 17, 2003; 68 FR 7427, Feb. 14, 2003]]

§ 360.36   Payment during life of sole owner.

A savings bond registered in single ownership form (i.e., without a coowner or beneficiary) will be paid to the owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request.
i.e.
, without a coowner or beneficiary) will be paid to the owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request.

§ 360.37   Payment during lives of both coowners.

A savings bond registered in coownership form will be paid to either coowner upon surrender with an appropriate request, and upon payment (as determined in § 360.43), the other coowner will cease to have any interest in the bond. If both coowners request payment, the payment will be made in the form, “John A. Jones AND Mary C. Jones”.

§ 360.38   Payment during lifetime of owner of beneficiary bond.

A savings bond registered in beneficiary form will be paid to the registered owner during his or her lifetime upon surrender with an appropriate request. Upon payment (as determined in § 360.43) the beneficiary will cease to have any interest in the bond.

§ 360.39   Surrender for payment.

(a) Procedure for definitive bonds of Series I presented at authorized paying agents. The owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment of a definitive Series I bond may present the bond to an authorized paying agent for redemption. The presenter must establish his or her identity and entitlement to payment in accordance with Treasury instructions and identification guidelines. The presenter must sign the request for payment on the bond or, if authorized, on a separate detached request, and add his or her address. If the request for payment has been signed, or signed and certified, before presentation of the bond, the paying agent must be satisfied that the person presenting the bond for payment is the owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment, and may require the person to sign the request for payment again. If the bond is in order for payment, the paying agent will make payment at the current redemption value without charge to the presenter. Paying agents are not authorized to process any case involving partial redemption.
Procedure for definitive bonds of Series I presented at authorized paying agents.
The owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment of a definitive Series I bond may present the bond to an authorized paying agent for redemption. The presenter must establish his or her identity and entitlement to payment in accordance with Treasury instructions and identification guidelines. The presenter must sign the request for payment on the bond or, if authorized, on a separate detached request, and add his or her address. If the request for payment has been signed, or signed and certified, before presentation of the bond, the paying agent must be satisfied that the person presenting the bond for payment is the owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment, and may require the person to sign the request for payment again. If the bond is in order for payment, the paying agent will make payment at the current redemption value without charge to the presenter. Paying agents are not authorized to process any case involving partial redemption.
(b) Procedure for all other cases. In the case of definitive bonds to which the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section, does not apply, or if otherwise preferred, the owner or coowner, or other person entitled to payment should establish his or her identity to the satisfaction of an officer authorized by the regulations in this part to certify requests for payment, sign the requests for payment, and provide delivery information for the payment. The bonds must be forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Usually, payment will be expedited by submission to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. In all cases, the cost and risk of presentation of a bond will be borne by the owner. Payment will be made to the registered owner or other person entitled and will be delivered according to the instructions of the owner or the other person entitled and the regulations in this part.
Procedure for all other cases.
In the case of definitive bonds to which the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section, does not apply, or if otherwise preferred, the owner or coowner, or other person entitled to payment should establish his or her identity to the satisfaction of an officer authorized by the regulations in this part to certify requests for payment, sign the requests for payment, and provide delivery information for the payment. The bonds must be forwarded to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Usually, payment will be expedited by submission to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch. In all cases, the cost and risk of presentation of a bond will be borne by the owner. Payment will be made to the registered owner or other person entitled and will be delivered according to the instructions of the owner or the other person entitled and the regulations in this part.
(c) Date of request. Requests executed more than six months before the date of receipt of a bond for payment will not be accepted. Neither will a bond be accepted if payment is requested as of a date more than three months in the future.
Date of request.
Requests executed more than six months before the date of receipt of a bond for payment will not be accepted. Neither will a bond be accepted if payment is requested as of a date more than three months in the future.

§ 360.40   Special provisions for payment.

(a) Owner's signature not required. A bond may be paid by a paying agent or a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch without the owner's signature to the request for payment if the bond bears the special endorsement of a paying agent specifically qualified to place such an endorsement on savings bonds.
Owner's signature not required.
A bond may be paid by a paying agent or a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch without the owner's signature to the request for payment if the bond bears the special endorsement of a paying agent specifically qualified to place such an endorsement on savings bonds.
(b) Signature by mark. A signature by mark (X) must be witnessed by at least one disinterested person and a certifying officer. See subpart I of this part. The witness must attest to the signature by mark substantially as follows: “Witness to signature by mark”, followed by his or her signature and address.
Signature by mark.
A signature by mark (X) must be witnessed by at least one disinterested person and a certifying officer. See subpart I of this part. The witness must attest to the signature by mark substantially as follows: “Witness to signature by mark”, followed by his or her signature and address.
(c) Name change. If the name of the owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment, as it appears in the registration or in any related evidence or documents has been changed in any legal manner, the signature to the request for payment must show both names and the manner in which the change was made; for example, “Mary T. Jones Smith (Mary T. J. Smith or Mary T. Smith) changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones”, or “John R. Young, changed by order of court from Hans R. Jung”. See § 360.50.
Name change.
If the name of the owner, coowner, or other person entitled to payment, as it appears in the registration or in any related evidence or documents has been changed in any legal manner, the signature to the request for payment must show both names and the manner in which the change was made; for example, “Mary T. Jones Smith (Mary T. J. Smith or Mary T. Smith) changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones”, or “John R. Young, changed by order of court from Hans R. Jung”. See § 360.50.
(d) Attorneys-in-fact. A request for payment executed by an attorney-in-fact on behalf of the bond owner or other person entitled to payment of the bond will be recognized if it is accompanied by a copy of the power of attorney which meets the following requirements:
Attorneys-in-fact.
A request for payment executed by an attorney-in-fact on behalf of the bond owner or other person entitled to payment of the bond will be recognized if it is accompanied by a copy of the power of attorney which meets the following requirements:
(1) The power of attorney must bear the grantor's signature, properly certified or notarized, in accordance with applicable State law;
(2) The power of attorney must grant, by its terms, authority for the attorney-in-fact to sell or redeem the grantor's securities, sell his or her personal property, or otherwise contain similar authority; and
(3) In the case of a grantor who has become incapacitated, the power of attorney must conform with pertinent provisions of State law concerning its durability. Generally, in such circumstances, the power of attorney should provide that the authority granted will not be affected by the subsequent incompetence or incapacity of the grantor. Medical evidence or other proof of the grantor's condition may be required in any case.

§ 360.41   Partial redemption.

A bond may be redeemed in part at current redemption value, but only in amounts corresponding to authorized denominations, upon surrender of the bond to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service in accordance with § 360.39(b). In any case in which partial redemption is requested, the phrase “to the extent of $_____ (face amount) and reissue of the remainder” should be added to the request. Upon partial redemption of the bond, the remainder will be reissued as of the original issue date, as provided in subpart H of this part.

§ 360.42   Nonreceipt or loss of remittance issued in payment.

If a remittance in payment of the redemption value of a bond surrendered for redemption is not received within a reasonable time or is lost after receipt, notice should be given to the same agency to which the bond was surrendered for payment. The notice should give the date the bond was surrendered for payment and describe the bond by series, denomination, serial number, and registration, including the taxpayer identifying number of the owner.

§ 360.43   Effective date of request for payment.

The Department of the Treasury will treat the receipt of a bond with an appropriate request for payment by:
(a) A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch;
(b) The Bureau of the Fiscal Service; or
(c) A paying agent authorized to pay that bond, as the date upon which the rights of the parties are fixed for the purpose of payment.

§ 360.44   Withdrawal of request for payment.

(a) Withdrawal by owner or coowner. An owner or coowner, who has surrendered a bond to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or to an authorized paying agent with an appropriate request for payment, may withdraw the request if notice of intent to withdraw is received by the same agency prior to payment.
Withdrawal by owner or coowner.
An owner or coowner, who has surrendered a bond to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or to an authorized paying agent with an appropriate request for payment, may withdraw the request if notice of intent to withdraw is received by the same agency prior to payment.
(b) Withdrawal on behalf of deceased owner or incompetent. A request for payment may be withdrawn under the same conditions as in paragraph (a) of this section by the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased owner or by the person or persons who could have been entitled to the bond under subpart K of this part, or by the legal representative of the estate of a person under legal disability, unless surrender of the bond for payment has eliminated the interest of a surviving coowner or beneficiary. See § 360.70(b) and (c).
Withdrawal on behalf of deceased owner or incompetent.
A request for payment may be withdrawn under the same conditions as in paragraph (a) of this section by the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased owner or by the person or persons who could have been entitled to the bond under subpart K of this part, or by the legal representative of the estate of a person under legal disability, unless surrender of the bond for payment has eliminated the interest of a surviving coowner or beneficiary. See § 360.70(b) and (c).

Subpart H—Reissue and Denominational Exchange


§ 360.45   General.

Reissue of a bond may be made only under the conditions specified in these regulations, and only at: A designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. Reissue will not be made if the request is received less than one full calendar month before the maturity date of a bond. See 31 CFR part 359. The request, however, will be effective to establish ownership as though the requested reissue had been made. We reserve the right to reissue savings bonds in book-entry form only. See § 360.48(a).
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 66856, Oct. 28, 2011; 79 FR 8860, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 360.46   Effective date of request for reissue.

The Department of the Treasury will treat the receipt by: A Federal Reserve Bank or Branch, or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service of a bond and an acceptable request for reissue as determining the date upon which the rights of the parties are fixed for the purpose of reissue. For example, if the owner or either coowner of a bond dies after the bond has been surrendered for reissue, the bond will be regarded as having been reissued in the decedent's lifetime.

§ 360.47   Authorized reissue; during lifetime.

A bond belonging to a living individual may be reissued in any form of registration authorized by the regulations in this part upon an appropriate request under the conditions and for the purposes outlined in this section.
(a) Single ownership. A bond registered in single ownership form may be reissued:
Single ownership.
A bond registered in single ownership form may be reissued:
(1) To add a coowner or beneficiary; or
(2) To name a new owner, with or without a coowner or beneficiary as requested by the new owner, but only if the previous owner and the new owner are parties to a divorce or annulment; or
(3) To name as new sole owner the personal trust estate created by the previous owner or which designates as beneficiary the previous owner.
(b) Coownership. During the lifetime of both coowners:
Coownership.
During the lifetime of both coowners:
(1) A coownership bond may be reissued to name a new owner, with or without a coowner or beneficiary as requested by the new owner, but only if at least one of the coowners and the new owner are parties to a divorce or annulment, but reissue is limited to the extent of that coowner's interest in the bond (See § 360.22(a)); or
(2) To name as new sole owner the personal trust estate created by at least one of the coowners or which designates as beneficiary at least one of the coowners.
(c) Beneficiary. A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued:
Beneficiary.
A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued:
(1) To substitute another individual as beneficiary; or
(2) To eliminate the beneficiary, and, if the beneficiary is eliminated, to effect any of the reissues authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.

§ 360.48   Restrictions on reissue; denominational exchange.

(a) Elimination of definitive Series I bonds. After February 14, 2014, the Department of the Treasury will no longer reissue Series I bonds in definitive (paper) form. After that date, a request for reissue of a Series I bond for any reason will only be processed under one of the following conditions:
Elimination of definitive Series I bonds.
After February 14, 2014, the Department of the Treasury will no longer reissue Series I bonds in definitive (paper) form. After that date, a request for reissue of a Series I bond for any reason will only be processed under one of the following conditions:
(1) If the new owner requests payment in the same transaction; or
(2) If the new owner provides instructions to reissue in the form of a book-entry bond in a TreasuryDirect® account. This option is available for persons who are eligible to open a TreasuryDirect® account under the regulations in 31 CFR part 363.
(b) Denominational exchange. Reissue is not permitted solely to change denominations.
Denominational exchange.
Reissue is not permitted solely to change denominations.
[[79 FR 8860, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 360.49   Correction of errors.

A bond may be reissued to correct an error in registration upon appropriate request supported by satisfactory proof of the error.

§ 360.50   Change of name.

An owner, coowner, or beneficiary whose name is changed by marriage, divorce, annulment, order of court, or in any other legal manner after the issue of the bond should submit the bond with a request for reissue to substitute the new name for the name inscribed on the bond. Documentary evidence may be required in any appropriate case.

§ 360.51   Requests for reissue.

Subject to the conditions set out in this subpart, a request for reissue of bonds in coownership form must be signed by both coowners, except that a request solely to eliminate the name of one coowner may be signed by that coowner only. A bond registered in beneficiary form may be reissued upon the request of the owner, without the consent of the beneficiary. Fiscal Service forms are available for requesting reissue.

Subpart I—Certifying Officers


§ 360.55   Individuals authorized to certify.

The following individuals are authorized to act as certifying officers for the purpose of certifying a request for payment, reissue, or a signature to a Fiscal Service form:
(a) Officers generally authorized—(1) Banks, trust companies, and member organizations of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. (i) Any officer of a bank incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Officers generally authorized
—(1)
Banks, trust companies, and member organizations of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
(i) Any officer of a bank incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(ii) Any officer of a trust company incorporated in the United States, the territories or possessions of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(iii) Any officer of an organization that is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. This includes Federal savings and loan associations.
(iv) Any officer of a foreign branch or domestic branch of an institution indicated in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(v) Any officer of a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal Land Bank, or a Federal Home Loan Bank.
(vi) Any employee of an institution in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, who is expressly authorized to certify by the institution.
(2) Credit unions. Any officer or employee of a credit union, who is expressly authorized to certify by the institution. Certification by these officers or designated employees must be authenticated by a legible imprint of either the corporate seal of the institution or of the issuing or paying agent's stamp. The employee expressly authorized to certify by an institution must sign his or her name over the title “Designated Employee”.
Credit unions.
Any officer or employee of a credit union, who is expressly authorized to certify by the institution. Certification by these officers or designated employees must be authenticated by a legible imprint of either the corporate seal of the institution or of the issuing or paying agent's stamp. The employee expressly authorized to certify by an institution must sign his or her name over the title “Designated Employee”.
(3) Issuing and paying agents. Any officer or expressly authorized employee of an organization that is not included in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section but is qualified as an issuing or paying agent for savings bonds of Series E, EE, or I. The agent's stamp must be imprinted in the certification.
Issuing and paying agents.
Any officer or expressly authorized employee of an organization that is not included in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section but is qualified as an issuing or paying agent for savings bonds of Series E, EE, or I. The agent's stamp must be imprinted in the certification.
(4) By United States officials. Any judge, clerk, or deputy clerk of a United States court, including United States courts for the territories and possessions of the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; any United States Commissioner, United States Attorney, or United States Collector of Customs, including their deputies; in the Internal Revenue Service, any Regional Commissioner, District Director, Service Center Director, or Internal Revenue agent.
By United States officials.
Any judge, clerk, or deputy clerk of a United States court, including United States courts for the territories and possessions of the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; any United States Commissioner, United States Attorney, or United States Collector of Customs, including their deputies; in the Internal Revenue Service, any Regional Commissioner, District Director, Service Center Director, or Internal Revenue agent.
(b) Officers with limited authority—(1) In the Armed Forces. Any commissioned officer or warrant officer of the Armed Forces of the United States, but only for members of the respective services, their families, and civilian employees at posts, bases, or stations. The certifying officer must indicate his or her rank and state that the individual signing the request is one of the class whose request the certifying officer is authorized to certify.
Officers with limited authority
—(1)
In the Armed Forces.
Any commissioned officer or warrant officer of the Armed Forces of the United States, but only for members of the respective services, their families, and civilian employees at posts, bases, or stations. The certifying officer must indicate his or her rank and state that the individual signing the request is one of the class whose request the certifying officer is authorized to certify.
(2) Veterans Administration, Federal penal institutions, and United States Public Health Service hospitals. Any officer in charge of a home, hospital or other facility of the Veterans Administration, but only for the patients, or employees of the facility; any officer of a Federal penal institution or a United States Public Health Service hospital expressly authorized to certify by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee, but only for the inmates, patients or employees of the institution involved. Officers of Veterans Administration facilities, Federal penal institutions, and Public Health Service hospitals must use the stamp or seal of the particular institution or service.
Veterans Administration, Federal penal institutions, and United States Public Health Service hospitals.
Any officer in charge of a home, hospital or other facility of the Veterans Administration, but only for the patients, or employees of the facility; any officer of a Federal penal institution or a United States Public Health Service hospital expressly authorized to certify by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee, but only for the inmates, patients or employees of the institution involved. Officers of Veterans Administration facilities, Federal penal institutions, and Public Health Service hospitals must use the stamp or seal of the particular institution or service.
(c) Authorized officers in foreign countries. Any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate seal or is certified to the Department of the Treasury. If none of these individuals is available, a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths may certify, but, if not in a country that is a party to the Hague Convention, his or her official character and jurisdiction must be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his or her office.
Authorized officers in foreign countries.
Any United States diplomatic or consular representative, or the officer of a foreign branch of a bank or trust company incorporated in the United States whose signature is attested by an imprint of the corporate seal or is certified to the Department of the Treasury. If none of these individuals is available, a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths may certify, but, if not in a country that is a party to the Hague Convention, his or her official character and jurisdiction must be certified by a United States diplomatic or consular officer under seal of his or her office.
(d) Authorized officers in particular localities. The Governor and the Treasurer of Puerto Rico; the Governor and the Commissioner of Finance of the Virgin Islands; the Governor and the Director of Finance of Guam; or the Governor and the Director of Administrative Services of American Samoa.
Authorized officers in particular localities.
The Governor and the Treasurer of Puerto Rico; the Governor and the Commissioner of Finance of the Virgin Islands; the Governor and the Director of Finance of Guam; or the Governor and the Director of Administrative Services of American Samoa.
(e) Special provisions. If no certifying officer is readily accessible, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, Deputy Commissioner, any Assistant Commissioner, or other designated official of the Bureau or of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for any particular case.
Special provisions.
If no certifying officer is readily accessible, the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, Deputy Commissioner, any Assistant Commissioner, or other designated official of the Bureau or of a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch is authorized to make special provision for any particular case.

§ 360.56   General instructions and liability.

(a) The certifying officer must:
(1) Require the person presenting a bond, or an appropriate Fiscal Service transaction form, to establish his or her identity in accordance with Department of the Treasury instructions and identification guidelines;
(2) Place a notation on the back of the bond or on the appropriate Fiscal Service transaction form, or in a separate record, showing exactly how identification was established; and
(3) Affix, as part of the certification, his or her official signature, title, seal or issuing or paying agent's stamp, address, and the date of execution.
(b) The certifying officer and, if such person is an officer or an employee of an organization, the organization will be held fully responsible for the adequacy of the identification.
(c) A signature guaranteed stamp under the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP) is an acceptable official seal.

§ 360.57   When a certifying officer may not certify.

Certifying officers may not certify the requests for payment or reissue of bonds, or appropriate Fiscal Service transaction forms if, in their own right or in a representative capacity, they:
(a) Have an interest in the bonds; or
(b) Will, by virtue of the requests being certified, acquire an interest in the bonds.

§ 360.58   Forms to be certified.

When required in the instructions on a Fiscal Service transaction form, the form must be signed before an authorized certifying officer.

Subpart J—Minors, Incompetents, Aged Persons, Absentees, et al.


§ 360.60   Payment to representative of an estate.

(a) The representative of an estate of an owner who is a minor, an aged person, incompetent, absentee, et al., may receive payment upon request:
(1) If the registration shows the name and capacity of the representative;
(2) If the registration shows the capacity but not the name of the representative and the request is accompanied by appropriate evidence; or
(3) If the registration includes neither the name of the representative nor his or her capacity but the request is accompanied by appropriate evidence.
(b)(1) Appropriate evidence for paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section includes Fiscal Service Forms 5385 (redemption) and 5386 (reissue) completed and signed by the representative in accordance with the proper form's instructions, which are incorporated herein, or a certified copy of the letters of appointment or, if the representative is not appointed by a court, other proof of qualification.
(2) Except in the case of corporate fiduciaries, the evidence must show that the appointment is in full force and be dated not more than one year prior to the presentation of the bond for payment. The request for payment appearing on the back of a bond must be signed by the representative as such, for example, “John S. Jones, guardian (committee) of the estate of Henry W. Smith, a minor (an incompetent)”.

§ 360.61   Payment after death.

After the death of the ward, and at any time prior to the representative's discharge, the representative of the estate will be entitled to obtain payment of a bond to which the ward was solely entitled.

§ 360.62   Payment to minor.

If the owner of a savings bond is a minor and the form of registration does not indicate that there is a representative of the minor's estate, payment will be made to the minor upon his or her request, provided the minor is of sufficient competency to sign the request for payment and to understand the nature of the transaction. In general, the fact that the request for payment has been signed by a minor and certified will be accepted as sufficient proof of competency and understanding.

§ 360.63   Payment to a parent or other person on behalf of a minor.

(a) If the owner of a savings bond is a minor and the form of registration does not indicate that there is a representative of his or her estate, and if the minor is not of sufficient competency to sign the request for payment and to understand the nature of the transaction, payment will be made to either parent with whom the minor resides or to whom legal custody has been granted. If the minor does not reside with either parent, payment will be made to the person who furnishes the chief support for the minor.
(b) The request must appear on the back of the bond in one of the following forms:
(1) Request by parent:
I certify that I am the mother of John C. Jones (with whom he resides) (to whom legal custody has been granted). He is __ years of age and is not of sufficient understanding to make this request.
Mary Jones on behalf of John C. Jones
(2) Request by other person:
I certify that John C. Jones does not reside with either parent and that I furnish his chief support. He is __ years of age and is not of sufficient understanding to make this request.
Alice Brown, grandmother, on behalf of John C. Jones

§ 360.64   Payment or reinvestment—voluntary guardian of an incapacitated person.

(a) Payment of bonds. (1) When an adult owner of bonds is incapable of requesting payment as a result of incapacity and there is no other person legally qualified to do so, the relative, or other person, responsible for the owner's care and support may submit an application for recognition as voluntary guardian for the purpose of redeeming the owner's bonds, if the total redemption value of all of the owner's bonds does not exceed $20,000. The bonds and application should be submitted to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
Payment of bonds.
(1) When an adult owner of bonds is incapable of requesting payment as a result of incapacity and there is no other person legally qualified to do so, the relative, or other person, responsible for the owner's care and support may submit an application for recognition as voluntary guardian for the purpose of redeeming the owner's bonds, if the total redemption value of all of the owner's bonds does not exceed $20,000. The bonds and application should be submitted to a designated Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
(2) The redemption value of the bonds shall be determined as of the date the bonds are received, accompanied by an appropriate request for payment. If the total redemption value exceeds $20,000, a legal representative must be appointed, as set forth in § 360.60.
(b) Reinvestment of bonds. (1) If the bonds have matured and ceased earning interest, they may be redeemed and the proceeds reinvested in any other savings bonds available. The new bonds must be registered in the name of the incapacitated person, followed by words showing that he or she is under voluntary guardianship; for example, “John Jones 123-45-6789, under voluntary guardianship”. A living coowner or beneficiary named on the matured bonds must be designated on the new bonds, unless such person furnishes a certified statement consenting to omission of his or her name.
Reinvestment of bonds.
(1) If the bonds have matured and ceased earning interest, they may be redeemed and the proceeds reinvested in any other savings bonds available. The new bonds must be registered in the name of the incapacitated person, followed by words showing that he or she is under voluntary guardianship; for example, “John Jones 123-45-6789, under voluntary guardianship”. A living coowner or beneficiary named on the matured bonds must be designated on the new bonds, unless such person furnishes a certified statement consenting to omission of his or her name.
(2) If an amount insufficient to purchase an additional bond of any authorized denomination of savings bond remains after the reinvestment, the voluntary guardian may furnish additional funds sufficient to purchase another savings bond of the lowest available denomination. If additional funds are not furnished, the remaining amount will be paid to the voluntary guardian for the use and benefit of the incapacitated person.

§ 360.65   Reissue.

A bond on which a minor or other person under legal disability is named as the owner or coowner, or in which he or she has an interest, may be reissued under the following conditions, but only in accordance with subpart H of this part:
(a) A minor for whose estate no representative has been appointed may request reissue if the minor is of sufficient competency to sign his or her name to the request and to understand the nature of the transaction.
(b) Except to the extent provided in paragraph (a) of this section, reissue will be restricted to a form of registration which does not adversely affect the existing ownership or interest of a minor or other person under legal disability. Requests for reissue should be executed by the person authorized to request payment under §§ 360.60 and 360.63, or the person who may request recognition as voluntary guardian under § 360.64.

Subpart K—Deceased Owner, Coowner or Beneficiary


§ 360.70   General rules governing entitlement.

The rules in this section govern ownership or entitlement where one or both of the persons named on a bond have died without the bond having been surrendered for payment or reissue. Appropriate proof of death will be required.
(a) Single owner bond. If the owner of a bond registered in single ownership form has died, the bond becomes the property of that decedent's estate, and payment or reissue will be made as provided in this subpart.
Single owner bond.
If the owner of a bond registered in single ownership form has died, the bond becomes the property of that decedent's estate, and payment or reissue will be made as provided in this subpart.
(b) Coowner bond—(1) One coowner deceased. If one of the coowners named on a bond has died, the surviving coowner will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner, and payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the name of the survivor alone. Any request for reissue by the surviving coowner must be supported by proof of death of the other coowner.
Coowner bond
—(1)
One coowner deceased.
If one of the coowners named on a bond has died, the surviving coowner will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner, and payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the name of the survivor alone. Any request for reissue by the surviving coowner must be supported by proof of death of the other coowner.
(2) Both coowners deceased. If both coowners named on a bond have died, the bond becomes the property of the estate of the coowner who died last, and payment or reissue will be made as if the bond were registered in the name of the last deceased coowner alone. Proof of death of both coowners will be required to establish the order of death.
Both coowners deceased.
If both coowners named on a bond have died, the bond becomes the property of the estate of the coowner who died last, and payment or reissue will be made as if the bond were registered in the name of the last deceased coowner alone. Proof of death of both coowners will be required to establish the order of death.
(3) Simultaneous death of both coowners. If both coowners die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, which coowner died first, the bond becomes the property of the estates of both equally, and payment or reissue will be made accordingly.
Simultaneous death of both coowners.
If both coowners die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, which coowner died first, the bond becomes the property of the estates of both equally, and payment or reissue will be made accordingly.
(c) Beneficiary bond—(1) Owner deceased. If the owner of a bond registered in beneficiary form has died and is survived by the beneficiary, upon proof of death of the owner, the beneficiary will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner of the bond. Payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the survivor's name alone. A request for payment or reissue by the beneficiary must be supported by proof of death of the owner.
Beneficiary bond
—(1)
Owner deceased.
If the owner of a bond registered in beneficiary form has died and is survived by the beneficiary, upon proof of death of the owner, the beneficiary will be recognized as the sole and absolute owner of the bond. Payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the survivor's name alone. A request for payment or reissue by the beneficiary must be supported by proof of death of the owner.
(2) Beneficiary deceased. If the beneficiary's death occurs before, or simultaneously with, that of the registered owner, payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the owner's name alone. Proof of death of the owner and beneficiary is required to establish the order of death.
Beneficiary deceased.
If the beneficiary's death occurs before, or simultaneously with, that of the registered owner, payment or reissue will be made as though the bond were registered in the owner's name alone. Proof of death of the owner and beneficiary is required to establish the order of death.
(d) Nonresident aliens. If the person who becomes entitled to a bond because of the death of an owner is an alien who is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of remittances, including checks and electronic payments, drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities, delivery of the redemption payment will not be made so long as the restriction applies. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211).
Nonresident aliens.
If the person who becomes entitled to a bond because of the death of an owner is an alien who is a resident of an area with respect to which the Department of the Treasury restricts or regulates the delivery of remittances, including checks and electronic payments, drawn against funds of the United States or its agencies or instrumentalities, delivery of the redemption payment will not be made so long as the restriction applies. See Department of the Treasury Circular No. 655, current revision (31 CFR part 211).
[[63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 57432, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 360.71   Decedent's estate.

(a) Estate is being administered. (1) A legal representative of a deceased owner's estate may request payment of savings bonds to the estate, or may distribute the savings bonds to the persons entitled.
Estate is being administered.
(1) A legal representative of a deceased owner's estate may request payment of savings bonds to the estate, or may distribute the savings bonds to the persons entitled.
(2) Appropriate proof of appointment for the legal representative of the estate is required. Letters of appointment must be dated not more than one year prior to the date of submission of the letters of appointment.
(b) Estate has been settled previously. If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment or reissue of the savings bonds. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence is required.
Estate has been settled previously.
If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment or reissue of the savings bonds. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence is required.
(c) Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile. If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under applicable local law summary or small estates procedures may request payment or reissue of savings bonds. Appropriate evidence is required.
Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile.
If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under applicable local law summary or small estates procedures may request payment or reissue of savings bonds. Appropriate evidence is required.
(d) When administration is required. If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
When administration is required.
If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
(e) Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered—(1) General. A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to request payment or distribution of a decedent's savings bonds. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's savings bonds and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered
—(1)
General.
A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to request payment or distribution of a decedent's savings bonds. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's savings bonds and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
(i) There has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, and no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used;
(ii) The total redemption value of the Treasury securities and held payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is $100,000 or less as of the date of death; and
(iii) There is a person eligible to serve as the voluntary representative according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) Authority of voluntary representative. A voluntary representative may:
Authority of voluntary representative.
A voluntary representative may:
(i) Redeem the decedent's savings bonds that are eligible for redemption on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death;
(ii) Distribute the decedent's savings bonds to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death.
(3) Order of precedence for voluntary representative. An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
Order of precedence for voluntary representative.
An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
(4) Liability. By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or savings bonds is to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or securities. Upon payment or distribution of the securities at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
Liability.
By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or savings bonds is to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or securities. Upon payment or distribution of the securities at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
(f) Creditor. If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment of the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
Creditor.
If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment of the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
[[70 FR 57432, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 360.72   [Reserved]


Subpart L—Fiduciaries


§ 360.75   Payment or reissue during the existence of the fiduciary estate.

(a) Request from the fiduciaries named in the registration. A request for reissue or payment signed by at least one, but less than all, of the fiduciaries named in the registration shall be deemed sufficient and acceptable proof that less than all of the fiduciaries may properly execute the request. If the fiduciaries named in the registration are still acting, no further evidence will be required. In other cases, i.e., cases in which the fiduciary is not designated by name and title in the bond registration or a fiduciary designated in the bond registration is no longer acting, the request must be made in accordance with subparts J and K of this part.
Request from the fiduciaries named in the registration.
A request for reissue or payment signed by at least one, but less than all, of the fiduciaries named in the registration shall be deemed sufficient and acceptable proof that less than all of the fiduciaries may properly execute the request. If the fiduciaries named in the registration are still acting, no further evidence will be required. In other cases, i.e., cases in which the fiduciary is not designated by name and title in the bond registration or a fiduciary designated in the bond registration is no longer acting, the request must be made in accordance with subparts J and K of this part.
(b) Corporate fiduciaries. If a bond is registered in the name of a public or private corporation, such as a financial institution, or a governmental body as fiduciary, the request must be signed by an authorized officer in the name of the organization as fiduciary. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
Corporate fiduciaries.
If a bond is registered in the name of a public or private corporation, such as a financial institution, or a governmental body as fiduciary, the request must be signed by an authorized officer in the name of the organization as fiduciary. Ordinarily, a signed and certified request will be accepted without further evidence.
(c) Trustee of a common trust fund. A bond held by a financial institution as a trustee may be reissued in the name of the institution as trustee of its common trust fund to the extent that participation in the common trust fund is authorized by law or regulation. The request for reissue should be executed by the institution and any co-trustee.
Trustee of a common trust fund.
A bond held by a financial institution as a trustee may be reissued in the name of the institution as trustee of its common trust fund to the extent that participation in the common trust fund is authorized by law or regulation. The request for reissue should be executed by the institution and any co-trustee.
(d) Successor fiduciary. If the fiduciary in whose name the bond is registered has been replaced by another fiduciary, a properly executed form or satisfactory evidence of successorship should be furnished.
Successor fiduciary.
If the fiduciary in whose name the bond is registered has been replaced by another fiduciary, a properly executed form or satisfactory evidence of successorship should be furnished.

§ 360.76   Payment or reissue after termination of the fiduciary estate.

A bond registered in the name or title of a fiduciary may be paid or reissued to the person who has become entitled by reason of the termination of an estate, other than a decedent's estate (see subpart K of this part). Requests for reissue made by a fiduciary pursuant to the termination of a fiduciary estate should be made on the appropriate form. Requests for payment or reissue by other than the fiduciary must be accompanied by evidence to show that the person has become entitled in accordance with applicable State law or otherwise. When two or more persons have become entitled, the request for payment or reissue must be signed by each of them.

Subpart M—Escheat and Unclaimed Property Claims by States


§ 360.77   Payment to a State claiming title to abandoned bonds.

(a) General. The Department of the Treasury may, in its discretion, recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a definitive savings bond that has stopped earning interest and is in the State's possession, when the State presents evidence satisfactory to Treasury that the bond has been abandoned by all persons entitled to payment under Treasury regulations. A State claiming title to a definitive savings bond as the heir to a deceased owner must comply with the requirements of subpart L of this part, and not this section. Treasury will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that is still earning interest. Treasury also will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that the State does not possess, or a judgment that purports to grant the State custody of a bond, but not title.
General.
The Department of the Treasury may, in its discretion, recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a definitive savings bond that has stopped earning interest and is in the State's possession, when the State presents evidence satisfactory to Treasury that the bond has been abandoned by all persons entitled to payment under Treasury regulations. A State claiming title to a definitive savings bond as the heir to a deceased owner must comply with the requirements of subpart L of this part, and not this section. Treasury will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that is still earning interest. Treasury also will not recognize an escheat judgment that purports to vest a State with title to a bond that the State does not possess, or a judgment that purports to grant the State custody of a bond, but not title.
(b) Due process. At a minimum, a State requesting payment under this section must demonstrate to Treasury's satisfaction that it made reasonable efforts to provide actual and constructive notice of the escheat proceeding to all persons listed on the face of the bond and all persons who may have an interest in the bond, and that those persons had an opportunity to be heard before the escheat judgment was entered.
Due process.
At a minimum, a State requesting payment under this section must demonstrate to Treasury's satisfaction that it made reasonable efforts to provide actual and constructive notice of the escheat proceeding to all persons listed on the face of the bond and all persons who may have an interest in the bond, and that those persons had an opportunity to be heard before the escheat judgment was entered.
(c) Fulfillment of obligation. Payment to a State claiming title under this section fulfills the United States' obligations to the same extent as if payment had been made to the registered owner.
Fulfillment of obligation.
Payment to a State claiming title under this section fulfills the United States' obligations to the same extent as if payment had been made to the registered owner.
[[80 FR 80265, Dec. 24, 2015]]

Subpart N—Miscellaneous Provisions

[Source:63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 80 FR 80265, Dec. 24, 2015.]
Source:
63 FR 38049, July 14, 1998, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 80 FR 80265, Dec. 24, 2015.

§ 360.90   Waiver of regulations.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may waive or modify any provision or provisions of the regulations in this part. He or she may do so in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship:
(a) If such action would not be inconsistent with law or equity;
(b) If it does not impair any material existing rights; and
(c) If he or she is satisfied that such action would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.

§ 360.91   Additional requirements; bond of indemnity.

The Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, as designee of the Secretary of the Treasury, may require:
(a) Such additional evidence as he or she may consider necessary or advisable; or
(b) A bond of indemnity, with or without surety, in any case in which he or she may consider such a bond necessary for the protection of the interests of the United States.

§ 360.92   Supplements, amendments, or revisions.

The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time, or from time to time, prescribe additional, supplemental, amendatory, or revised rules and regulations governing United States Savings Bonds.

PART 361—CLAIMS PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNMENT LOSSES IN SHIPMENT ACT

[Authority:Sec. 6, 50 Stat. 480; 40 U.S.C. 728.]
Authority:
Sec. 6, 50 Stat. 480; 40 U.S.C. 728.
[Source:41 FR 19302, May 12, 1976, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984, and further redesignated at 50 FR 51394, Dec. 17, 1985.]
Source:
41 FR 19302, May 12, 1976, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984, and further redesignated at 50 FR 51394, Dec. 17, 1985.

§ 361.1   Scope of regulations.

This part governs the reporting of loss or destruction of, or damage to, valuables shipped pursuant to section 1 of the Government Losses in Shipment Act (hereafter the Act) (40 U.S.C. 721) and proof of claim for replacement under section 3 of the Act (40 U.S.C. 723) by executive departments, independent establishments, agencies, wholly owned corporations, officers and employees of the United States, and Federal Reserve banks when acting on behalf of the United States or agencies thereof (hereafter consignors). Failure by any consignor or agent or employee thereof to comply with these regulations may delay recoveries, preclude reimbursement from the fund for the payment of Government losses in shipment (hereafter the Fund) or other relief under the Act, and render the consignor responsible for any loss occurring through such failure.

§ 361.2   Definitions.

(a) The term valuables means any articles or things or representatives of value in which the United States has any interest, or in connection with which it has any obligation or responsibility, direct or indirect, and which have been declared to be valuables by the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter Secretary) pursuant to the Act, as listed in § 362.1 of this title.
valuables
means any articles or things or representatives of value in which the United States has any interest, or in connection with which it has any obligation or responsibility, direct or indirect, and which have been declared to be valuables by the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter
Secretary
) pursuant to the Act, as listed in § 362.1 of this title.
(b) The term shipment means the transportation, or the effecting of transportation, of valuables, without limitation as to the means or facilities used or by which the transportation is effected or the person to whom it is made, and includes, but is not limited to, shipments made to any executive department, independent establishment, agency, wholly or partly owned corporation, officer, or employee of the United States, or any person acting on his or its behalf or at his or its direction.
shipment
means the transportation, or the effecting of transportation, of valuables, without limitation as to the means or facilities used or by which the transportation is effected or the person to whom it is made, and includes, but is not limited to, shipments made to any executive department, independent establishment, agency, wholly or partly owned corporation, officer, or employee of the United States, or any person acting on his or its behalf or at his or its direction.
(c) The term replacement means payment, reimbursement, replacement, or duplication or the expenses incident thereto.
replacement
means payment, reimbursement, replacement, or duplication or the expenses incident thereto.
(d) The term carrier means any person, corporation, or other entity which effectuates the shipment for consignors of valuables.
carrier
means any person, corporation, or other entity which effectuates the shipment for consignors of valuables.

§ 361.3   Shipping procedure.

Shipments of valuables shall be made so as to provide the greatest possible protection against risk of loss and destruction of, and damage to, valuables, in accordance with requirements prescribed by the consignors after notice to the Secretary.

§ 361.4   Preparation of shipment.

Each shipment shall be inspected and verified by two responsible employees of a consignor before final preparation (i.e., before sealing, locking, etc.) for delivery to the carrier. The shipment shall be finally prepared for delivery in the presence of the two employees and before leaving their immediate control. If strict compliance herewith is impossible or impracticable, administrative officers of the consignor shall make adequate provision, through the establishment of accounting controls or otherwise, for the maintenance of basic records which will enable them to prove, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, the extent of loss, destruction, or damage in connection with a claim against the Fund. The requirements of this section shall apply irrespective of the carrier or method of transportation employed in making shipments.
i.e.
, before sealing, locking, etc.) for delivery to the carrier. The shipment shall be finally prepared for delivery in the presence of the two employees and before leaving their immediate control. If strict compliance herewith is impossible or impracticable, administrative officers of the consignor shall make adequate provision, through the establishment of accounting controls or otherwise, for the maintenance of basic records which will enable them to prove, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, the extent of loss, destruction, or damage in connection with a claim against the Fund. The requirements of this section shall apply irrespective of the carrier or method of transportation employed in making shipments.

§ 361.5   Record of shipment.

(a) A record of each shipment shall be maintained by the consignor. The record shall include:
(1) The name and address of the consignee designated to receive the shipment;
(2) A complete description of the contents of the shipment (if the shipment is made up of securities, the record shall be maintained by issue, series, denomination and serial number, and a description of any coupons attached to such securities at the time of shipment);
(3) The face or par value of the shipment in the case of securities, currency, etc., or the replacement value in the case of other valuables;
(4) The registry number or the lock and rotary numbers, if any, under which shipped;
(5) The number of the registry receipt, or other receipt of the carrier;
(6) The date and hour of delivery to the carrier;
(7) A record of the signatures of the consignor's employees who verified the contents of the package and witnessed its sealing;
(8) A record of the signature(s) of the consignor's employee(s) who thereafter had custody of the package until it was delivered at the post office for registration or deposited with the post office or other carrier for shipment; and
(9) The name of the carrier.
(b) The consignor shall also preserve, until assured that shipment has been completed and no claims action will be initiated, all registry receipts or other carriers' receipts, and other documents incidental to the shipments.

§ 361.6   Advice of shipment.

(a) If the value of any one shipment to one consignee at one time by one consignor, except in the case of any intracity shipment or the shipment of registered securities by certified mail, or by another means providing the same protection as certified mail, equals or exceeds $10,000, immediate notice thereof shall be forwarded by the consignor to the consignee by separate mail. Such notice shall include:
(1) A complete record of the contents of the shipment;
(2) The method of transportation employed and the name of the carrier; and
(3) The date of delivery to such carrier.
(b) The consignee shall arrange that:
(1) Shipment when received, be opened and inspected by one or more responsible employees;
(2) Immediate advice of any difference between the amounts or quantity indicated in the notice by the consignor to the consignee and in the shipment when opened be forwarded to the consignor;
(3) The consignor and the post office, or office of other carrier through which delivery would be made, be notified immediately in the event of the failure of the shipment to arrive in due course;
(4) The consignor be advised immediately concerning any damage to the shipment; and
(5) All findings of the consignee in such cases be made a matter of record subject to the inspection of the Secretary or other Government officer, in connection with any necessary investigation.
[[41 FR 19302, May 12, 1976. Redesignated at 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984. Further redesignated at 50 FR 51394, Dec. 17, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 19751, June 2, 1986]]

§ 361.7   Report of loss, destruction or damage.

(a) If a consignor receives notice that loss or destruction of, or damage to, valuables shipped in accordance with the Act has occurred, an immediate written report shall be forwarded by the consignor to the Secretary, to the attention of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Financial Management, Room 201, P. O. Box 1328, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328. If the loss, destruction or damage represents a value equal to, or in excess of, $10,000 or if delay in reporting is likely to delay the Government in recovering such valuables, the report shall be transmitted by wire and promptly confirmed in writing.
(b) The report shall state:
(1) The date of shipment;
(2) The amount and character of the valuables lost, destroyed, or damaged;
(3) The name and address of the consignee;
(4) The method of transportation, the name of the carrier, and the location of the office of the carrier from which shipment was made;
(5) The registry or other receipt number; and
(6) The cause of the loss, destruction or damage, if known.
(c) The consignor shall immediately report the loss, destruction or damage to the agent in charge of the nearest United States Secret Service office, and to the local post office or local office of other carrier. The consignor shall also place a tracer on the shipment and take such other action as may be necessary to facilitate recovery.
[[41 FR 19302, May 12, 1976. Redesignated and amended at 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984. Further redesignated and amended at 50 FR 51394, Dec. 17, 1985; 61 FR 20437, May 7, 1996]]

§ 361.8   Claim for replacement.

Claim for replacement shall be made in writing to the Secretary, to the attention of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Financial Management, Room 201, P. O. Box 1328, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328. The claim, accompanied by a recommendation regarding the manner of replacement, shall be submitted through the head of the consignor concerned, or his designee. The manner of replacement shall be determined by the Secretary in accordance with section 3 of the Act, i.e., by replacement out of the Fund or by a credit in the accounts of the claimant.
[[41 FR 19302, May 12, 1976. Redesignated and amended at 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984. Further redesignated and amended at 50 FR 51394, Dec. 17, 1985; 61 FR 20437, May 7, 1996]]

§ 361.9   Proof of claim.

The Secretary will require proof of claim in such form, and in such manner, as he deems necessary. Proof of claim will include satisfactory proof of shipment and satisfactory proof of loss, destruction or damage. The claim shall be supported by the original “record of shipment” required pursuant to § 361.5, which will be returned after adjustment of the claim. The consignor shall submit a statement concerning the loss or destruction of, or damage to, the shipment or any part thereof. If the shipment has been received by the consignee with contents not intact, such statement shall set forth all the circumstances relating to the condition in which the shipment was received and the manner of inspection and verification of its contents. Affidavits covering the loss, destruction or damage to the shipment shall be obtained from the consignee and the carrier. The consignor shall submit the statement and recommendations of the investigating officers.

§ 361.10   Recoveries.

If relief is granted, the consignor shall take all necessary and reasonable steps to recover the lost, destroyed or damaged valuables, or their value. All recoveries and repayments, in connection with valuables for which replacement has been made out of the Fund, shall be forwarded to the Secretary for credit to the Fund.

PART 362—DECLARATION OF VALUABLES UNDER THE GOVERNMENT LOSSES IN SHIPMENT ACT

[Authority:Secs. 6, 7, 50 Stat. 480; 40 U.S.C. 728, 729.]
Authority:
Secs. 6, 7, 50 Stat. 480; 40 U.S.C. 728, 729.

§ 362.1   Declaration of “valuables”.

It is determined that replacements, in accordance with the procedure established under section 3 of the Government Losses in Shipment Act (50 Stat. 479, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 134b), of the articles or things or representatives of value enumerated and referred to in this section would be in the public interest; accordingly, they are hereby declared to be “valuables” within the meaning of the act.
(a) Money of the United States and foreign countries. Currency, included mutilated currency and canceled currency, coins, including uncurrent coins, and specie.
Money of the United States and foreign countries.
Currency, included mutilated currency and canceled currency, coins, including uncurrent coins, and specie.
(b) Securities and other instruments or documents, private and public.
Securities and other instruments or documents, private and public.
Abstracts of title.
Assignments.
Bills.
Bonds.
Certificates of deposit.
Certificates of indebtedness.
Checks, drafts and money orders.
Coupons.
Debentures.
Deeds.
Equipment trust certificates.
Mortgages.
Notes.
Stamps, including postage, revenue, license, food order and public debt.
Stamped envelopes and postal cards.
Stock certificates.
Trust receipts.
Voting trust receipts.
Warehouse receipts.
Warrants.
And other instruments or documents similar to the foregoing and whether complete, incomplete, mutilated, canceled, in definitive form or represented by interim documents.
(c) Precious metals and stones. Diamonds and other precious stones. Gold, silver and any other precious or rare metal, including articles composed thereof.
Precious metals and stones.
Diamonds and other precious stones. Gold, silver and any other precious or rare metal, including articles composed thereof.
(d) All other. Works and collections of artistic, historical, scientific or educational value which are the property of the United States or which may be loaned to the United States at its request, or which may be shipped on authority of the United States for its examination or acceptance as a gift.
All other.
Works and collections of artistic, historical, scientific or educational value which are the property of the United States or which may be loaned to the United States at its request, or which may be shipped on authority of the United States for its examination or acceptance as a gift.
[[4 FR 3796, Sept. 1, 1939, as amended at 5 FR 2653, July 25, 1940. Redesignated at 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984. Further redesignated at 50 FR 51394, Dec. 17, 1985]]

§ 362.2   Amendments.

The Secretary of the Treasury may, at any time, or from time to time, make supplemental or amendatory declaration of valuables.
[[4 FR 3796, Sept. 1, 1939, as amended at 5 FR 2653, July 25, 1940. Redesignated at 49 FR 47002, Nov. 30, 1984. Further redesignated at 50 FR 51394, Dec. 17, 1985]]

PART 363—REGULATIONS GOVERNING SECURITIES HELD IN TREASURYDIRECT

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3102, et seq.; 31 U.S.C. 3121, et seq.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 3102,
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 3121,
et seq.
[Source:67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 363 appear at 70 FR 57433, Sept. 30, 2005, 70 FR 57442, Sept. 30, 2005, and 75 FR 70815, Nov. 19, 2010.

Subpart A—General


§ 363.0   What is the TreasuryDirect ® system?

The TreasuryDirect system (TreasuryDirect) is an online account system in which you may hold and conduct transactions in eligible book-entry Treasury securities.

§ 363.1   What Treasury securities are covered by these regulations?

The regulations in this part apply to book-entry Treasury securities held in the TreasuryDirect ® system.

§ 363.2   What agency administers TreasuryDirect ®?

The Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service), Department of the Treasury (Treasury) is responsible for administering TreasuryDirect. Fiscal Service may delegate authority to process certain transactions in TreasuryDirect to Federal Reserve Banks and Branches as fiscal agents of the United States.

§ 363.3   [Reserved]


§ 363.4   How is TreasuryDirect® different from the Legacy Treasury Direct® system and the commercial book-entry system?

(a) TreasuryDirect. TreasuryDirect is a book-entry, online system maintained by Treasury for purchasing, holding and conducting permitted transactions in eligible Treasury securities in electronic form as a computer record on the books of Treasury. TreasuryDirect currently provides for the purchase and holding of eligible book-entry savings bonds, zero-percent certificates of indebtedness, and eligible marketable Treasury securities.
TreasuryDirect.
TreasuryDirect is a book-entry, online system maintained by Treasury for purchasing, holding and conducting permitted transactions in eligible Treasury securities in electronic form as a computer record on the books of Treasury. TreasuryDirect currently provides for the purchase and holding of eligible book-entry savings bonds, zero-percent certificates of indebtedness, and eligible marketable Treasury securities.
(b) Legacy Treasury Direct. The Legacy Treasury Direct system is a non-Internet-based book-entry system maintained by Treasury for holding and conducting permitted transactions in eligible marketable Treasury securities as book-entry products. The terms and conditions for the Legacy Treasury Direct system are found at 31 CFR part 357, subpart C.
Legacy Treasury Direct.
The Legacy Treasury Direct system is a non-Internet-based book-entry system maintained by Treasury for holding and conducting permitted transactions in eligible marketable Treasury securities as book-entry products. The terms and conditions for the Legacy Treasury Direct system are found at 31 CFR part 357, subpart C.
(c) Commercial book-entry system. The commercial book-entry system is the book-entry system in which Treasury securities are held in a tiered system through securities intermediaries such as financial institutions or brokerage firms. The regulations governing the commercial book-entry system are found at 31 CFR part 357, subpart B, and may be referred to in that part as Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System (TRADES).
Commercial book-entry system.
The commercial book-entry system is the book-entry system in which Treasury securities are held in a tiered system through securities intermediaries such as financial institutions or brokerage firms. The regulations governing the commercial book-entry system are found at 31 CFR part 357, subpart B, and may be referred to in that part as Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System (TRADES).
[[70 FR 57442, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 76 FR 18064, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 363.5   How do I contact Fiscal Service?

(a) You may use the “Contact Us” feature within TreasuryDirect ® to communicate information to us over a secure Internet connection.
(b) Emails may be sent to: treasury.direct@bpd.treas.gov. We will reply by e-mail unless you request otherwise. We are not responsible for the security of e-mail messages you may send to us, or replies we may send to you.
treasury.direct@bpd.treas.gov.
We will reply by e-mail unless you request otherwise. We are not responsible for the security of e-mail messages you may send to us, or replies we may send to you.
(c) Letters should be addressed to the address provided on our web site at http://www.treasurydirect.gov/write.htm.
http://www.treasurydirect.gov/write.htm.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 57442, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19416, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.6   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

Account means a TreasuryDirect ® account as described in § 363.10.
Account
means a TreasuryDirect ® account as described in § 363.10.
Authentication means confirming that the person accessing a TreasuryDirect account is the same person whose identity was initially verified at account establishment.
Authentication
means confirming that the person accessing a TreasuryDirect account is the same person whose identity was initially verified at account establishment.
Automated Clearing House (ACH) means a funds transfer system governed by the Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA). NACHA provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participating financial institutions.
Automated Clearing House (ACH)
means a funds transfer system governed by the Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA). NACHA provides for the interbank clearing of electronic entries for participating financial institutions.
Beneficiary refers to the second individual named in the registration of a definitive savings bond, a converted definitive savings bond, or a book-entry security purchased through the TreasuryDirect system, registered, e.g., “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.
Beneficiary
refers to the second individual named in the registration of a definitive savings bond, a converted definitive savings bond, or a book-entry security purchased through the TreasuryDirect system, registered, e.g., “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.
Book-entry security means a Treasury security maintained by us in electronic or paperless form as a computer record.
Book-entry security
means a Treasury security maintained by us in electronic or paperless form as a computer record.
Business day means any day that funds may be settled through ACH.
Business day
means any day that funds may be settled through ACH.
Closed book period means a period of four business days prior to the date a scheduled marketable security interest and/or maturity payment is made, during which time certain transactions will be delayed until after the closed book period is completed. (See § 363.210.)
Closed book period
means a period of four business days prior to the date a scheduled marketable security interest and/or maturity payment is made, during which time certain transactions will be delayed until after the closed book period is completed. (
See
§ 363.210.)
Commercial book-entry system refers to the book-entry system in which you hold your Treasury securities in a tiered system through securities intermediaries such as financial institutions or brokerage firms. (See § 363.4.)
Commercial book-entry system
refers to the book-entry system in which you hold your Treasury securities in a tiered system through securities intermediaries such as financial institutions or brokerage firms. (See § 363.4.)
Court means a court of law with jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter.
Court
means a court of law with jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter.
Conversion account means a linked account in TreasuryDirect that contains only savings bonds that have been converted from definitive bonds to book-entry bonds.
Conversion account
means a linked account in TreasuryDirect that contains only savings bonds that have been converted from definitive bonds to book-entry bonds.
Converted savings bond means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Converted savings bond
means a savings bond originally issued as a definitive bond that has been surrendered to us and converted to a book-entry savings bond to be maintained by Treasury solely as a computer record.
Converting coowner is the coowner who initiates and completes the transaction to convert a definitive savings bond to a book-entry bond through his or her TreasuryDirect account.
Converting coowner
is the coowner who initiates and completes the transaction to convert a definitive savings bond to a book-entry bond through his or her TreasuryDirect account.
Coowner means either of the persons named in the registration of a definitive or a converted definitive savings bond, registered, e.g., “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 or Joseph Doe.”
Coowner
means either of the persons named in the registration of a definitive or a converted definitive savings bond, registered, e.g., “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 or Joseph Doe.”
Custodian of a minor account means a person who opens an account on behalf of the minor. (See § 363.27 for more information about minor accounts.)
Custodian of a minor account
means a person who opens an account on behalf of the minor. (See § 363.27 for more information about minor accounts.)
Custom account means an account that you establish for a specific purpose that is linked to your primary account. You use your primary account as the portal to open and access your custom linked account. (See § 363.10 for more information about custom accounts.)
Custom account
means an account that you establish for a specific purpose that is linked to your primary account. You use your primary account as the portal to open and access your custom linked account. (See § 363.10 for more information about custom accounts.)
Definitive security means a Treasury security held in paper form.
Definitive security
means a Treasury security held in paper form.
De-link means the online process by which all securities contained within the minor linked account are moved to the minor's primary TreasuryDirect account and the linked account is deactivated.
De-link
means the online process by which all securities contained within the minor linked account are moved to the minor's primary TreasuryDirect account and the linked account is deactivated.
Delivery means moving a minimum amount of $25 (consisting of principal and proportionate interest) of a security held as a gift from the account of the purchaser to the account of the recipient.
Delivery
means moving a minimum amount of $25 (consisting of principal and proportionate interest) of a security held as a gift from the account of the purchaser to the account of the recipient.
Entity means any owner of a TreasuryDirect account that is not an individual. Entity is a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company or professional limited liability company, trust, the estate of a decedent, or the estate of a living person such as an incompetent or a minor.
Entity
means any owner of a TreasuryDirect account that is not an individual. Entity is a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company or professional limited liability company, trust, the estate of a decedent, or the estate of a living person such as an incompetent or a minor.
Entity account manager is the individual who initially opens the TreasuryDirect account for an entity, or his or her replacement; who is authorized by the entity to act alone on its behalf to open, access, and conduct transactions with respect to the account; and who certifies that he or she is so authorized.
Entity account manager
is the individual who initially opens the TreasuryDirect account for an entity, or his or her replacement; who is authorized by the entity to act alone on its behalf to open, access, and conduct transactions with respect to the account; and who certifies that he or she is so authorized.
Federal Reserve Bank (Reserve Bank) means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
Federal Reserve Bank (Reserve Bank)
means a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch.
Final maturity of a savings bond means the date beyond which an unredeemed savings bond no longer earns interest. 
1
Final maturity of a savings bond
means the date beyond which an unredeemed savings bond no longer earns interest.
1
1 Series EE and Series I savings bonds currently have an original maturity period of 20 years and an extended maturity period of 10 years beyond original maturity during which the bonds continue to earn interest.
1
Series EE and Series I savings bonds currently have an original maturity period of 20 years and an extended maturity period of 10 years beyond original maturity during which the bonds continue to earn interest.
Financial institution, or depository financial institution, means an entity described in 12 U.S.C. 461 (b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi).
Financial institution, or depository financial institution
, means an entity described in 12 U.S.C. 461 (b)(1)(A)(i)-(vi).
Gift means a Treasury security purchased for or transferred to an intended recipient, without consideration.
Gift
means a Treasury security purchased for or transferred to an intended recipient, without consideration.
Incompetent individual or incompetent person means an individual who has been declared by a court to be legally incompetent, incapacitated, or otherwise unable to manage his or her financial affairs.
Incompetent individual
or
incompetent person
means an individual who has been declared by a court to be legally incompetent, incapacitated, or otherwise unable to manage his or her financial affairs.
Individual means a natural person.
Individual
means a natural person.
Interest on a savings bond means the difference between the purchase price and the redemption value of the bond.
Interest on a savings bond
means the difference between the purchase price and the redemption value of the bond.
Legacy Treasury Direct® system is a non-Internet-based book-entry system maintained by Treasury since 1986 for holding and conducting permitted transactions in marketable Treasury securities directly with Treasury as book-entry products. (See § 363.4.)
Legacy Treasury Direct®
system is a non-Internet-based book-entry system maintained by Treasury since 1986 for holding and conducting permitted transactions in marketable Treasury securities directly with Treasury as book-entry products. (See § 363.4.)
Legal guardian of a minor or incompetent person refers to the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the minor or incompetent individual.
Legal guardian
of a minor or incompetent person refers to the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the minor or incompetent individual.
Legal representative refers to the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to manage and settle the estate of a decedent. The term includes an executor and an administrator.
Legal representative
refers to the court-appointed or otherwise qualified person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to manage and settle the estate of a decedent. The term includes an executor and an administrator.
Legally incompetent means a court has declared an individual to be incapable of handling his or her business affairs.
Legally incompetent
means a court has declared an individual to be incapable of handling his or her business affairs.
Linked account means an account that is a separate account from your primary account, but connected to your primary account. You use your primary account as a portal to open and access the linked account. (See § 363.10 for more information about linked accounts.)
Linked account
means an account that is a separate account from your primary account, but connected to your primary account. You use your primary account as a portal to open and access the linked account. (See § 363.10 for more information about linked accounts.)
Marketable Treasury security refers to a Treasury bill, note, or bond that is negotiable and transferable, that is, may be bought and sold in the secondary market.
Marketable Treasury security
refers to a Treasury bill, note, or bond that is negotiable and transferable, that is, may be bought and sold in the secondary market.
Minor means an individual under the age of 18 years. The term minor is also used to refer to an individual who has attained the age of 18 years but has not yet taken control of the securities contained in his or her minor account.
Minor
means an individual under the age of 18 years. The term minor is also used to refer to an individual who has attained the age of 18 years but has not yet taken control of the securities contained in his or her minor account.
Minor account means an account that a custodian controls on behalf of a minor, that is linked to the custodian's primary account. (See §§ 363.10 and 363.27 for more information about minor accounts.)
Minor account
means an account that a custodian controls on behalf of a minor, that is linked to the custodian's primary account. (See §§ 363.10 and 363.27 for more information about minor accounts.)
Non-converting coowner is the coowner who does not participate in the transaction to convert a definitive savings bond to a book-entry bond.
Non-converting coowner
is the coowner who does not participate in the transaction to convert a definitive savings bond to a book-entry bond.
Online means use of the Internet.
Online
means use of the Internet.
Owner when referring to an individual, is either the single individual named in the registration of a security held in the single owner form of registration, the first individual named on a security held in the owner with beneficiary form of registration, the first individual named on a security held in the primary owner with secondary owner form of registration, or either individual named on a converted savings bond held in the coowner form of registration; when referring to a minor linked account, the owner is the minor; when referring to an entity, the owner is the entity.
Owner
when referring to an individual, is either the single individual named in the registration of a security held in the single owner form of registration, the first individual named on a security held in the owner with beneficiary form of registration, the first individual named on a security held in the primary owner with secondary owner form of registration, or either individual named on a converted savings bond held in the coowner form of registration; when referring to a minor linked account, the owner is the minor; when referring to an entity, the owner is the entity.
Payroll savings plan is a method for the purchase of savings bonds using periodic ACH credits from your employer or financial institution to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness until a sufficient amount of payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is accumulated to enable the purchase of a savings bond in an amount, series, and registration that you previously selected using functionality in your TreasuryDirect account. (See also the definition of payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.)
Payroll savings plan
is a method for the purchase of savings bonds using periodic ACH credits from your employer or financial institution to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness until a sufficient amount of payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is accumulated to enable the purchase of a savings bond in an amount, series, and registration that you previously selected using functionality in your TreasuryDirect account. (
See
also the definition of payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.)
Payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is a restricted form of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness that is held separately from the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness and used only for purchases made through the payroll savings plan. (See also the definition for zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.)
Payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness
is a restricted form of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness that is held separately from the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness and used only for purchases made through the payroll savings plan. (See also the definition for zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.)
Person means an individual or an entity.
Person
means an individual or an entity.
Primary account means the account that you establish when you first open your TreasuryDirect account; your primary account is the portal used to open and access all your linked accounts. (See § 363.10 for more information about primary accounts.)
Primary account
means the account that you establish when you first open your TreasuryDirect account; your primary account is the portal used to open and access all your linked accounts. (See § 363.10 for more information about primary accounts.)
Primary owner means the first person named in the registration of a security held in TreasuryDirect registered, e.g., “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, John Doe is the primary owner.
Primary owner
means the first person named in the registration of a security held in TreasuryDirect registered, e.g., “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, John Doe is the primary owner.
Principal amount means the amount of the original investment. Principal amount does not include any interest earned.
Principal amount
means the amount of the original investment. Principal amount does not include any interest earned.
Recipient means the person to whom a gift is given.
Recipient
means the person to whom a gift is given.
Redemption of a savings bond refers to the payment of principal and interest at final maturity, or prior to final maturity at the option of the owner. The owner may redeem all principal and interest or a portion of the principal and the proportionate amount of interest.
Redemption of a savings bond
refers to the payment of principal and interest at final maturity, or prior to final maturity at the option of the owner. The owner may redeem all principal and interest or a portion of the principal and the proportionate amount of interest.
Redemption value means principal plus accrued interest of a bond, or a portion of the principal plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest on the bond, as of the date of redemption.
Redemption value
means principal plus accrued interest of a bond, or a portion of the principal plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest on the bond, as of the date of redemption.
Registration or Registered means that the name and taxpayer identification number(s) (TIN) of the person(s) named on the security are maintained on our records.
Registration
or
Registered
means that the name and taxpayer identification number(s) (TIN) of the person(s) named on the security are maintained on our records.
Reinvestment means using the redemption proceeds of a maturing marketable security to purchase a new marketable security of the same type and term, using the automatic reinvestment option available in TreasuryDirect.
Reinvestment
means using the redemption proceeds of a maturing marketable security to purchase a new marketable security of the same type and term, using the automatic reinvestment option available in TreasuryDirect.
Secondary owner means the second person named in the registration of a book-entry security held in TreasuryDirect registered, e.g. “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, Joseph Doe is the secondary owner.
Secondary owner
means the second person named in the registration of a book-entry security held in TreasuryDirect registered, e.g. “John Doe SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe SSN 987-65-4321.” In this example, Joseph Doe is the secondary owner.
Security, or Treasury security, as used in this part, means an obligation issued by Treasury that may be held in TreasuryDirect.
Security,
or
Treasury security,
as used in this part, means an obligation issued by Treasury that may be held in TreasuryDirect.
Series EE savings bond is an accrual-type savings bond, issued either in definitive (paper) form or in book-entry form, that accrues interest on the principal based on rates determined by Treasury.
Series EE savings bond
is an accrual-type savings bond, issued either in definitive (paper) form or in book-entry form, that accrues interest on the principal based on rates determined by Treasury.
Series I savings bond is a savings bond, issued either in definitive (paper) form or in book-entry form, that accrues interest in accordance with a formula that includes a fixed component and a component indexed to the rate of inflation.
Series I savings bond
is a savings bond, issued either in definitive (paper) form or in book-entry form, that accrues interest in accordance with a formula that includes a fixed component and a component indexed to the rate of inflation.
Signature guarantee program means a signature guarantee program established under 17 CFR 240.17Ad-15, issued under authority of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For the purpose of this part, we recognize the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP), and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Medallion Signature Program (MSP). These certifications are acceptable for transfers of securities, but are not acceptable for offline account establishment.
Signature guarantee program
means a signature guarantee program established under 17 CFR 240.17Ad-15, issued under authority of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For the purpose of this part, we recognize the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program (STAMP), the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program (SEMP), and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Medallion Signature Program (MSP). These certifications are acceptable for transfers of securities, but are not acceptable for offline account establishment.
Single owner means the individual named in the registration of a book-entry Treasury security or a converted savings bond without a beneficiary, secondary owner, or coowner.
Single owner
means the individual named in the registration of a book-entry Treasury security or a converted savings bond without a beneficiary, secondary owner, or coowner.
Social security account number or social security number (SSN) means the identifying number required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service by an individual. A SSN is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789.
Social security account number
or
social security number (SSN)
means the identifying number required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service by an individual. A SSN is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN) means the identifying number required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service; that is, an individual's social security number (SSN) or an employer identification number (EIN). A SSN is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789. An EIN is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers.
Taxpayer identification number (TIN)
means the identifying number required on tax returns and other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service; that is, an individual's social security number (SSN) or an employer identification number (EIN). A SSN is composed of nine digits separated by two hyphens, for example, 123-45-6789. An EIN is composed of nine digits separated by one hyphen, for example, 12-3456789. The hyphens are an essential part of the numbers.
Tender means an offer, or bid, to purchase a marketable Treasury security.
Tender
means an offer, or bid, to purchase a marketable Treasury security.
Transaction is any action affecting Treasury securities or account information.
Transaction
is any action affecting Treasury securities or account information.
Transfer is a transaction to move a security, or a portion of a security, to or from a TreasuryDirect account. (See § 363.26.)
Transfer
is a transaction to move a security, or a portion of a security, to or from a TreasuryDirect account. (See § 363.26.)
Verification means confirming the identity of an online applicant for a TreasuryDirect account at account establishment using an online verification service or offline verification.
Verification
means confirming the identity of an online applicant for a TreasuryDirect account at account establishment using an online verification service or offline verification.
Verification service means a public or private service that confirms the identity of an online applicant for a TreasuryDirect account at account establishment using information provided by the applicant.
Verification service
means a public or private service that confirms the identity of an online applicant for a TreasuryDirect account at account establishment using information provided by the applicant.
Voluntary representative means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to accept payment or direct distribution of a decedent's securities pursuant to § 363.44.
Voluntary representative
means the person qualified by the Department of the Treasury to accept payment or direct distribution of a decedent's securities pursuant to § 363.44.
We, us, or our refers to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term includes the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also includes any fiscal or financial agent we designate to act on behalf of the United States.
We, us,
or
our
refers to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term includes the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also includes any fiscal or financial agent we designate to act on behalf of the United States.
You or your refers to a TreasuryDirect primary account holder.
You or your
refers to a TreasuryDirect primary account holder.
Zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is a one-day, non-interest-bearing security that automatically matures and is rolled over each day until you request that it be redeemed.
Zero-percent certificate of indebtedness
is a one-day, non-interest-bearing security that automatically matures and is rolled over each day until you request that it be redeemed.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 24807, May 8, 2003; 69 FR 2507, Jan. 16, 2004; 69 FR 50308, Aug. 16, 2004; 70 FR 14942, Mar. 23, 2005; 70 FR 57433, Sept. 30, 2005; 70 FR 57442, Sept. 30, 2005; 72 FR 30978, June 5, 2007; 74 FR 19416, Apr. 29, 2009; 75 FR 26090, May 11, 2010; 75 FR 70815, Nov. 19, 2010; 75 FR 78901, Dec. 17, 2010; 76 FR 18064, Apr. 1, 2011]]

Subpart B—General Provisions Governing Securities Held in TreasuryDirect


§§ 363.7-363.8   [Reserved]


§ 363.9   What does this subpart cover?

This subpart provides general rules governing securities held within the TreasuryDirect ® system. Provisions in the subparts governing specific securities that conflict with these general rules will supersede these general rules.
[[70 FR 57433, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.10   What is a TreasuryDirect ® account?

A TreasuryDirect account is an online account maintained by us solely in your name in which you may hold and conduct transactions in eligible book-entry Treasury securities.
(a) Primary account. The primary account is the account that you establish when initially opening your TreasuryDirect account. The primary account may contain the following Treasury securities:
Primary account.
The primary account is the account that you establish when initially opening your TreasuryDirect account. The primary account may contain the following Treasury securities:
(1) Individual. A primary account for an individual may contain Treasury securities purchased initially as book-entry securities that are your personal holdings registered in single owner, owner with beneficiary, and primary owner with secondary owner forms of registration; gifts of savings bonds that have not yet been delivered; and converted savings bonds that were transferred from the conversion linked account.
Individual.
A primary account for an individual may contain Treasury securities purchased initially as book-entry securities that are your personal holdings registered in single owner, owner with beneficiary, and primary owner with secondary owner forms of registration; gifts of savings bonds that have not yet been delivered; and converted savings bonds that were transferred from the conversion linked account.
(2) Entities. A primary account for an entity may contain Treasury securities purchased initially as book-entry securities registered in the name of the entity and converted savings bonds in the name of the entity that were transferred from the conversion linked account.
Entities.
A primary account for an entity may contain Treasury securities purchased initially as book-entry securities registered in the name of the entity and converted savings bonds in the name of the entity that were transferred from the conversion linked account.
(b) Linked account. A linked account is an account that is a separate account from your primary account, but that is connected to your primary account. You use your primary account as a portal to open and access the linked account. Linked accounts include the following:
Linked account.
A linked account is an account that is a separate account from your primary account, but that is connected to your primary account. You use your primary account as a portal to open and access the linked account. Linked accounts include the following:
(1) Custom account. A custom account is an account that is linked to your primary account. You use your primary account as the portal to open and access your custom account. You may informally designate a purpose for the custom account, for example, “vacation fund”, or “Johnny's college fund”. However, the designation as to purpose has no legal effect; the registration of the securities held in the custom account determines ownership (Annual purchase limitations include securities held in custom accounts). You, as an individual owner, may use your custom account to buy, redeem, and transfer securities that you own in single owner, owner with beneficiary, and primary owner with secondary owner forms of registration. An individual owner may also buy and deliver gift savings bonds from the custom account. An entity account manager, acting on behalf of an entity, may use the entity's custom account to buy, redeem, and transfer securities registered in the entity form of registration.
Custom account.
A custom account is an account that is linked to your primary account. You use your primary account as the portal to open and access your custom account. You may informally designate a purpose for the custom account, for example, “vacation fund”, or “Johnny's college fund”. However, the designation as to purpose has no legal effect; the registration of the securities held in the custom account determines ownership (Annual purchase limitations include securities held in custom accounts). You, as an individual owner, may use your custom account to buy, redeem, and transfer securities that you own in single owner, owner with beneficiary, and primary owner with secondary owner forms of registration. An individual owner may also buy and deliver gift savings bonds from the custom account. An entity account manager, acting on behalf of an entity, may use the entity's custom account to buy, redeem, and transfer securities registered in the entity form of registration.
(2) Minor account. A minor account is an account established by an individual custodian for an individual who has not yet reached the age of 18 years. We do not permit an entity to open a minor account. A minor account is linked to the custodian's primary account. The minor is the owner of the securities, but the custodian controls the account on behalf of the minor. (See § 363.27 for more information about minor accounts.)
Minor account.
A minor account is an account established by an individual custodian for an individual who has not yet reached the age of 18 years. We do not permit an entity to open a minor account. A minor account is linked to the custodian's primary account. The minor is the owner of the securities, but the custodian controls the account on behalf of the minor. (See § 363.27 for more information about minor accounts.)
(3) Conversion account means a linked account in TreasuryDirect that contains only savings bonds that have been converted from definitive bonds to book-entry bonds.
Conversion account
means a linked account in TreasuryDirect that contains only savings bonds that have been converted from definitive bonds to book-entry bonds.
(c) Closing an account. If a TreasuryDirect primary account and all associated linked accounts have had no holdings and no activity for a period of two years, we reserve the right to close the account, along with all linked accounts.
Closing an account.
If a TreasuryDirect primary account and all associated linked accounts have had no holdings and no activity for a period of two years, we reserve the right to close the account, along with all linked accounts.
[[69 FR 2507, Jan. 16, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005. Redesignated at 70 FR 57433, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 57442, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19417, Apr. 29, 2009; 75 FR 78901, Dec. 17, 2010]]

§ 363.11   Who is eligible to open a TreasuryDirect ® account?

Only an individual or an entity is eligible to open a TreasuryDirect account. In order to open a TreasuryDirect account, an individual or entity account manager must have a valid social security number (SSN), be 18 years of age or over, and be legally competent. An entity must have a valid SSN or employer identification number. The account owner must have a United States address of record and have an account at a United States depository financial institution that will accept debits and credits using the Automated Clearing House method of payment.
[[74 FR 19417, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.12   Who may purchase and hold book-entry securities in TreasuryDirect ®?

(a) A TreasuryDirect account owner may purchase and hold securities through his or her account.
(b) We do not permit a legally incompetent person to open an account, purchase securities, or convert savings bonds once we have been provided with an order from a court with appropriate jurisdiction determining incompetence to perform such activities.
(c) We do not permit a voluntary representative to purchase securities on behalf of the estate of a decedent.
(d) We may reject any application for the purchase of a security, in whole or in part. We may refuse to issue a security in any case or class of cases, if we deem the action to be in the public interest. Our decision in any such respect is final.
[[70 FR 57433, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19417, Apr. 29, 2009 ]]

§ 363.13   How can I open a TreasuryDirect ® account?

(a) General. You must establish a TreasuryDirect account online before you purchase a Treasury security to be held in your account. Instructions for online account establishment may be found at the official Fiscal Service website at http://www.treasurydirect.gov, or such other Internet address as Fiscal Service may from time to time announce by publication in the Federal Register. When you have completed the application, you will create a password to access your account. We will verify your identity and send your account number to you by e-mail when your account application is approved. In addition to your password, we may require you to use any other form(s) of authentication that we consider necessary for the protection of your account.
General.
You must establish a TreasuryDirect account online before you purchase a Treasury security to be held in your account. Instructions for online account establishment may be found at the official Fiscal Service website at
http://www.treasurydirect.gov,
or such other Internet address as Fiscal Service may from time to time announce by publication in the
Federal Register.
When you have completed the application, you will create a password to access your account. We will verify your identity and send your account number to you by e-mail when your account application is approved. In addition to your password, we may require you to use any other form(s) of authentication that we consider necessary for the protection of your account.
(b) Entities. An individual, referred to as an entity account manager, must establish an account on behalf of an entity. We will verify the identity of the entity account manager. We may verify the identity of the entity using any evidence we deem appropriate. The entity account manager must certify that he or she is authorized to open and access an account for the entity and has the authority to act alone on behalf of the entity with regard to the account.
Entities.
An individual, referred to as an entity account manager, must establish an account on behalf of an entity. We will verify the identity of the entity account manager. We may verify the identity of the entity using any evidence we deem appropriate. The entity account manager must certify that he or she is authorized to open and access an account for the entity and has the authority to act alone on behalf of the entity with regard to the account.
[[74 FR 19417, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.14   How will you verify my identity?

(a) Individual. When you establish an account, we may use a verification service to verify your identity using information you provide about yourself on the online application. At our option, we may require offline verification.
Individual.
When you establish an account, we may use a verification service to verify your identity using information you provide about yourself on the online application. At our option, we may require offline verification.
(b) Entity. When an entity account manager establishes an online account on behalf of an entity, we may use a verification service to verify the identity of the entity account manager using information that the entity account manager provides about himself or herself on the online application. At our option, we may require offline verification of the entity account manager. At our option, we may require any evidence we deem appropriate to verify the identity of the entity.
Entity.
When an entity account manager establishes an online account on behalf of an entity, we may use a verification service to verify the identity of the entity account manager using information that the entity account manager provides about himself or herself on the online application. At our option, we may require offline verification of the entity account manager. At our option, we may require any evidence we deem appropriate to verify the identity of the entity.
[[74 FR 19417, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.15   What is the procedure for offline verification?

In the event we require offline verification, we will provide a printable verification form for the individual account owner or entity account manager to sign. The signature on the form must be certified or guaranteed as provided at § 363.43, and the form must be mailed to us at the address provided in § 363.5. We may require documentary verification of an entity as we deem appropriate.
[[74 FR 19417, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.16   How do I access my account?

You may access your account online using your account number, password, and any other form(s) of authentication that we may require.
[[72 FR 30978, June 5, 2007]]

§ 363.17   Who is liable if someone else accesses my TreasuryDirect ® account using my password?

You are solely responsible for the confidentiality and use of your account number, password, and any other form(s) of authentication we may require. We will treat any transactions conducted using your password as having been authorized by you. We are not liable for any loss, liability, cost, or expense that you may incur as a result of transactions made using your password.
[[72 FR 30978, June 5, 2007]]

§ 363.18   Is Fiscal Service liable if the electronic transmission of my data is intercepted?

We are not liable for any interception of electronic data or communication.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002. Redesignated at 70 FR 57434, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.19   What should I do if I become aware that my password or other form of authentication has become compromised?

If you become aware that your password has become compromised, that any other form of authentication has been compromised, lost, stolen, or misused, or that there have been any unauthorized transactions in your account, you may place a hold on your account so that it cannot be accessed by anyone, and you should notify us immediately by e-mail or telephone. Contact information is available on the TreasuryDirect Web site.
[[72 FR 30978, June 5, 2007]]

§ 363.20   What do I need to know about the forms of registration that are available for purchases of securities through my TreasuryDirect ® account?

(a) General principles. (1) Registration must express the actual ownership of, and interest in, the security. Registration conclusively establishes ownership of a security.
General principles.
(1) Registration must express the actual ownership of, and interest in, the security. Registration conclusively establishes ownership of a security.
(2) You must provide a last name and a first name for each individual included in the registration of the security.
(3) You must provide the valid taxpayer identification number for each person named in the registration of the security.
(b) Forms of registration for individuals. The forms of registration available for individuals for purchases of securities made through your TreasuryDirect account are single owner, owner with beneficiary, and primary owner with secondary owner, unless the forms of registration available for a security are specifically limited by the subpart governing that security.
Forms of registration for individuals.
The forms of registration available for individuals for purchases of securities made through your TreasuryDirect account are single owner, owner with beneficiary, and primary owner with secondary owner, unless the forms of registration available for a security are specifically limited by the subpart governing that security.
(1) Single owner. (i) A single owner is the individual named in the registration of a book-entry security or a converted savings bond without a beneficiary, secondary owner, or coowner.
Single owner.
(i) A single owner is the individual named in the registration of a book-entry security or a converted savings bond without a beneficiary, secondary owner, or coowner.
(ii) A single owner may add a beneficiary or secondary owner.
(iii) A single owner may conduct permitted online transactions on securities held in his or her account.
(iv) Upon the death of the single owner, his or her estate is entitled to the security. In determining entitlement, the law of the decedent's domicile will be followed.
(v) Registration example: “John Doe, SSN 123-45-6789.”
(2) Owner with beneficiary. (i) The purchaser must be named as the owner with another individual as beneficiary.
Owner with beneficiary.
(i) The purchaser must be named as the owner with another individual as beneficiary.
(ii) The owner may remove or change the beneficiary without the consent of the beneficiary.
(iii) The owner may conduct permitted online transactions on securities held in his or her account without the consent of the beneficiary.
(iv) The beneficiary has no ownership rights to the security during the owner's lifetime. Upon the death of the owner, the security becomes the property of the surviving beneficiary, despite any attempted testamentary disposition or any applicable local law to the contrary.
(v) If the beneficiary does not survive the owner, the security belongs to the estate of the owner.
(vi) If both the owner and the beneficiary die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, who died first, the security is the property of the estate of the owner.
(vii) In order for the beneficiary to obtain the security or the redemption proceeds after the death of the owner, the beneficiary must provide proof of death of the owner. If the beneficiary has a TreasuryDirect account, the security will be transferred to that account. If the beneficiary does not have an account, he or she may establish an account. Alternatively, a beneficiary named on a savings bond may request redemption. If the beneficiary requests redemption, he or she must provide ACH instructions for the payment.
(viii) Registration example: “John Doe, SSN 123-45-6789 POD (payable on death to) Jane Doe, SSN 987-65-4321.”
(3) Primary owner with secondary owner. (i) The purchaser must be named in the registration as the primary owner with another individual as secondary owner.
Primary owner with secondary owner.
(i) The purchaser must be named in the registration as the primary owner with another individual as secondary owner.
(ii) The primary owner holds the securities in his or her account and may view or conduct permitted online transactions in the securities.
(iii) The primary owner may remove the secondary owner without the consent of the secondary owner.
(iv) The secondary owner has no rights to view or conduct transactions in any security unless the primary owner gives the secondary owner these rights.
(v) The primary owner may give the secondary owner the right to view any security or rights to view and conduct transactions in any security online from the account of the secondary owner.
(vi) Once the right to conduct transactions in a security has been given to the secondary owner, the primary owner may view and conduct transactions in the security from the primary owner's account, and the secondary owner may view and conduct transactions in the security using the secondary owner's own account.
(vii) The primary owner may revoke any rights previously given to the secondary owner at any time.
(viii) Upon the death of either the primary or secondary owner, the security becomes the property of the survivor, despite any attempted testamentary disposition or any applicable local law to the contrary.
(ix) If both the primary and the secondary owner die under conditions where it cannot be established, either by presumption of law or otherwise, who died first, the security is the property of the estate of the primary owner.
(x) In order for the secondary owner to obtain the security or the security proceeds after the death of the primary owner, the secondary owner must provide proof of death of the primary owner. If the secondary owner has a TreasuryDirect account, the security will be transferred to that account. If the secondary owner does not have an account, he or she may establish an account. Alternatively, a secondary owner named on a savings bond may request redemption. If the secondary owner requests redemption, he or she must provide ACH instructions.
(xi) Registration example: “John Doe, SSN 123-45-6789 with Joseph Doe, SSN 987-65-4321.”
(c) Forms of registration for entities. The forms of registration available for entities are sole proprietorship; partnership; corporation; limited liability company or professional limited liability company (LLC or PLLC); trust; decedent's estate; and estate of a living person such as an incompetent or a minor.
Forms of registration for entities.
The forms of registration available for entities are sole proprietorship; partnership; corporation; limited liability company or professional limited liability company (LLC or PLLC); trust; decedent's estate; and estate of a living person such as an incompetent or a minor.
(1) Sole proprietorship. A sole proprietorship form of registration is available for an individual who is doing business as a sole proprietor. The entity account manager must be the owner of the business. Registration example: “John Doe DBA Doe Plumbing Supplies, EIN 12-3456789, [or SSN 123-45-6789].”
Sole proprietorship.
A sole proprietorship form of registration is available for an individual who is doing business as a sole proprietor. The entity account manager must be the owner of the business. Registration example: “John Doe DBA Doe Plumbing Supplies, EIN 12-3456789, [or SSN 123-45-6789].”
(2) Partnership. A partnership form of registration is available for two or more individuals who are doing business as a partnership, including a limited liability partnership. Unless the name of a partnership includes the word “partnership,” the registration must include descriptive words indicating partnership status. The entity account manager must be a general partner, and must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the partnership with regard to this account. Registration example: “Smith and Jones Construction Company, a partnership, EIN 98-7654321, or SSN 987-65-4321.”
Partnership.
A partnership form of registration is available for two or more individuals who are doing business as a partnership, including a limited liability partnership. Unless the name of a partnership includes the word “partnership,” the registration must include descriptive words indicating partnership status. The entity account manager must be a general partner, and must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the partnership with regard to this account. Registration example: “Smith and Jones Construction Company, a partnership, EIN 98-7654321, or SSN 987-65-4321.”
(3) Corporation. A corporate form of registration is available for an entity that has been incorporated pursuant to state law. The registration must contain a reference to the corporate status. The entity account manager must be a corporate officer or designated employee and must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the corporation with regard to this account. Registration example: “ABC Corporation, EIN 23-4567891.”
Corporation.
A corporate form of registration is available for an entity that has been incorporated pursuant to state law. The registration must contain a reference to the corporate status. The entity account manager must be a corporate officer or designated employee and must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the corporation with regard to this account. Registration example: “ABC Corporation, EIN 23-4567891.”
(4) Limited Liability Company (LLC) or Professional Limited Liability Company (PLLC). A LLC or PLLC form of registration is available for an entity that has registered articles of organization pursuant to state law. The registration must contain a reference to the company's status. The entity account manager must be a company official or designated employee and must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the company with regard to this account. Registration example: “Paine Dental Associates, PLLC, EIN 34-5678912” or “Summit Consulting Service, LLC, EIN 12-3456789.”
Limited Liability Company (LLC) or Professional Limited Liability Company (PLLC).
A LLC or PLLC form of registration is available for an entity that has registered articles of organization pursuant to state law. The registration must contain a reference to the company's status. The entity account manager must be a company official or designated employee and must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the company with regard to this account. Registration example: “Paine Dental Associates, PLLC, EIN 34-5678912” or “Summit Consulting Service, LLC, EIN 12-3456789.”
(5) Trust. A trust form of registration is available. The trust form of registration is not available for trusts in which the trustee is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. The registration must identify the trust with specificity; at a minimum, it must include the authority or document creating the trust, the date the document was executed (except in the case of a probated will when the date is not necessary), the name of a trustee of the trust who is authorized to act alone on behalf of the trust with regard to the account, and any information that is necessary to distinguish the trust from any other trust. The registration may also include the names of additional trustees and the full name of the trust. If one or more of the trustees are individuals, and the entity account manager is an individual trustee, the entity account manager must be named in the registration. If an organization serving as a trustee of the trust will administer this account, the entity account manager must be a duly authorized employee of that organization who has the authority to act alone on behalf of the organization in its role as trustee of the trust with regard to the account, and the organization must be named in the registration. In either case, the entity account manager must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the trust with regard to the account. Registration examples: “John Doe, Trustee under Declaration of Trust dated January 1, 2001, SSN 123-45-6789”; “First National Bank, Trustee under Agreement with William Jones dated January 1, 2001, EIN 12-3456789”; “John Doe or Sarah Jones, Trustees under Agreement with Jane Doe dated January 1, 2001, SSN 123-45-6789”; “Sarah Jones, Trustee under the Will of Matthew Smith, deceased, SSN 123-45-6789”; “Jane Doe, Trustee of the Doe Family Trust dated January 1, 2001, EIN 12-3456789.”
Trust.
A trust form of registration is available. The trust form of registration is not available for trusts in which the trustee is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. The registration must identify the trust with specificity; at a minimum, it must include the authority or document creating the trust, the date the document was executed (except in the case of a probated will when the date is not necessary), the name of a trustee of the trust who is authorized to act alone on behalf of the trust with regard to the account, and any information that is necessary to distinguish the trust from any other trust. The registration may also include the names of additional trustees and the full name of the trust. If one or more of the trustees are individuals, and the entity account manager is an individual trustee, the entity account manager must be named in the registration. If an organization serving as a trustee of the trust will administer this account, the entity account manager must be a duly authorized employee of that organization who has the authority to act alone on behalf of the organization in its role as trustee of the trust with regard to the account, and the organization must be named in the registration. In either case, the entity account manager must certify that he or she has the authority to act alone on behalf of the trust with regard to the account. Registration examples: “John Doe, Trustee under Declaration of Trust dated January 1, 2001, SSN 123-45-6789”; “First National Bank, Trustee under Agreement with William Jones dated January 1, 2001, EIN 12-3456789”; “John Doe or Sarah Jones, Trustees under Agreement with Jane Doe dated January 1, 2001, SSN 123-45-6789”; “Sarah Jones, Trustee under the Will of Matthew Smith, deceased, SSN 123-45-6789”; “Jane Doe, Trustee of the Doe Family Trust dated January 1, 2001, EIN 12-3456789.”
(6) The estate of a decedent. The decedent's estate form of registration is available for an individual or organization that has been appointed by a court according to state law to act on behalf of the estate of a decedent. This form of registration is not available where the legal representative is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. The entity account manager must be a court-appointed individual legal representative who has the authority to act alone with regard to the account, or an employee of the court-appointed organizational legal representative who has the authority to act alone with regard to the account on behalf of the organization in its role as legal representative of the estate. Registration example: “John Doe, Legal Representative of the Estate of William Jones, a decedent, EIN 12-3456789, or SSN 123-45-6789.”
The estate of a decedent.
The decedent's estate form of registration is available for an individual or organization that has been appointed by a court according to state law to act on behalf of the estate of a decedent. This form of registration is not available where the legal representative is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. The entity account manager must be a court-appointed individual legal representative who has the authority to act alone with regard to the account, or an employee of the court-appointed organizational legal representative who has the authority to act alone with regard to the account on behalf of the organization in its role as legal representative of the estate. Registration example: “John Doe, Legal Representative of the Estate of William Jones, a decedent, EIN 12-3456789, or SSN 123-45-6789.”
(7) The estate of a living person such as an incompetent or a minor. A form of registration is available for an individual or organization that has been appointed according to state law to act on behalf of the estate of an incompetent person, a minor, or other living person. This form of registration is not available where the legal guardian is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. The entity account manager must be a court-appointed legal guardian who has the authority to act alone with regard to the account, or an employee of the court-appointed organizational legal guardian who has the authority to act alone with regard to the account on behalf of the organization in its role as legal guardian. Registration example: “John Doe, Legal Guardian of the estate of William Jones.” The SSN of the incompetent person or the minor will be used.
The estate of a living person such as an incompetent or a minor.
A form of registration is available for an individual or organization that has been appointed according to state law to act on behalf of the estate of an incompetent person, a minor, or other living person. This form of registration is not available where the legal guardian is acting on behalf of a federal, state, or local government. The entity account manager must be a court-appointed legal guardian who has the authority to act alone with regard to the account, or an employee of the court-appointed organizational legal guardian who has the authority to act alone with regard to the account on behalf of the organization in its role as legal guardian. Registration example: “John Doe, Legal Guardian of the estate of William Jones.” The SSN of the incompetent person or the minor will be used.
[[70 FR 57434, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19417, Apr. 29, 2009; 79 FR 8860, Feb. 14, 2014]]

§ 363.21   When may you require offline authentication and documentary evidence?

We may require offline authentication and documentary evidence at our option.
[[74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.22   Who has the right to conduct online transactions in book-entry securities?

(a) Individual—(1) Single owner form of registration. A single owner can conduct transactions in securities held in his or her TreasuryDirect ® account.
Individual
—(1)
Single owner form of registration.
A single owner can conduct transactions in securities held in his or her TreasuryDirect ® account.
(2) Owner with beneficiary form of registration. The owner can conduct transactions in securities held in his or her TreasuryDirect account. The beneficiary has no rights during the lifetime of the owner and therefore cannot conduct transactions in the securities.
Owner with beneficiary form of registration.
The owner can conduct transactions in securities held in his or her TreasuryDirect account. The beneficiary has no rights during the lifetime of the owner and therefore cannot conduct transactions in the securities.
(3) Primary owner with secondary owner form of registration. (i) The primary owner can conduct any permitted transaction in a security held in the primary owner's TreasuryDirect account. (See § 363.20(e)).
Primary owner with secondary owner form of registration.
(i) The primary owner can conduct any permitted transaction in a security held in the primary owner's TreasuryDirect account. (See § 363.20(e)).
(ii) If the primary owner has given the secondary owner the right to conduct transactions in a security, and has not revoked that right, then the secondary owner can conduct transactions in the security. Transactions that may be conducted by the secondary owner include transferring a marketable security, redeeming a savings bond, and changing the destination of interest and redemption payments for marketable securities.
(b) Converted savings bonds. The rules for transactions governing converted savings bonds are contained in subpart E of this part.
Converted savings bonds.
The rules for transactions governing converted savings bonds are contained in subpart E of this part.
(c) Entity. The entity account manager can conduct transactions in the securities held within the entity's account. Initially, the entity account manager is the individual who opens the account. The entity account manager may be changed to a different individual using procedures available on our Web site. The entity account manager must certify that he or she is authorized to act alone on behalf of the entity in accessing and conducting transactions on behalf of the entity with regard to the entity's account.
Entity.
The entity account manager can conduct transactions in the securities held within the entity's account. Initially, the entity account manager is the individual who opens the account. The entity account manager may be changed to a different individual using procedures available on our Web site. The entity account manager must certify that he or she is authorized to act alone on behalf of the entity in accessing and conducting transactions on behalf of the entity with regard to the entity's account.
[[70 FR 57434, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009; 75 FR 78901, Dec. 17, 2010]]

§§ 363.23-363.24   [Reserved]


§ 363.25   How do I conduct transactions in my account or in Treasury securities held in my account?

We will provide online instructions for conducting transactions through your account. If you are unable to conduct a transaction online, you should contact us at the address provided in § 363.5. Offline transactions will require a certified or guaranteed signature. See § 363.43 for instructions for obtaining a certified or guaranteed signature.

§ 363.26   What is a transfer?

(a) A transfer is a transaction to:
(1) Move a Treasury security, or a portion of a Treasury security, from one account to another within TreasuryDirect ®;
(2) Move a marketable Treasury security to or from a TreasuryDirect account and an account in the commercial book-entry system;
(3) Move a marketable Treasury security to a TreasuryDirect account from a Legacy Treasury Direct® account.
(b) Transfers of a specific type of security may be limited by the subparts that refer to that security.
(c) Gift delivery is not a transfer. A transfer does not include delivery of a gift savings bond from the donor to the recipient. This is referred to as a delivery.
Gift delivery is not a transfer.
A transfer does not include delivery of a gift savings bond from the donor to the recipient. This is referred to as a delivery.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005; 76 FR 18064, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 363.27   What do I need to know about accounts for minors who have not had a legal guardian appointed by a court?

(a) We do not permit a minor to purchase securities.
(b) Opening an account in the name of a minor. (1) A parent or an individual who provides the chief financial support of a minor may open an account for a minor. The person opening the account for a minor is referred to as the custodian of the minor's account.
Opening an account in the name of a minor.
(1) A parent or an individual who provides the chief financial support of a minor may open an account for a minor. The person opening the account for a minor is referred to as the custodian of the minor's account.
(2) The custodian is a fiduciary for the minor as to the securities held in the minor's account.
(3) The custodian must have an existing primary TreasuryDirect ® account in order to open the minor's account.
(i) The minor's account is an account that is linked to the custodian's primary account.
(ii) The custodian must use his or her primary TreasuryDirect account as a portal to open and access the minor's account.
(4) Securities contained in the minor's account will be registered in the name and SSN of the minor, in either sole owner, owner with beneficiary, or primary owner with secondary owner forms of registration.
(c) Procedure for opening an account for a minor. (1) Online instructions will be provided for establishing an account for a minor.
Procedure for opening an account for a minor.
(1) Online instructions will be provided for establishing an account for a minor.
(2) The custodian must certify that all transactions conducted through the account will be on the minor's behalf.
(d) Procedure for conducting transactions in the minor's account. The custodian must conduct all transactions in the minor's account on behalf of the minor. Access to the minor's account is through the custodian's primary account.
Procedure for conducting transactions in the minor's account.
The custodian must conduct all transactions in the minor's account on behalf of the minor. Access to the minor's account is through the custodian's primary account.
(e) Transactions permitted in the minor's account. (1) The custodian may purchase securities for and on behalf of the minor through the minor's account.
Transactions permitted in the minor's account.
(1) The custodian may purchase securities for and on behalf of the minor through the minor's account.
(2) The custodian may redeem savings bonds on behalf of the minor through the minor's account. We will report the interest earned on the security to the name and SSN of the minor.
(3) The custodian may not purchase gift savings bonds from the minor's account.
(4) The custodian may transfer a security to another TreasuryDirect account, provided the account is a linked account bearing the name and taxpayer identification number of the minor. The custodian can transfer a marketable Treasury security to an account in the commercial book-entry system.
(5) Securities may be transferred to the minor's account.
(6) Gift savings bonds may be delivered to the minor's account.
(7) The custodian may grant rights to view and conduct transactions in the security as may be permitted by § 363.22.
(8) The custodian may purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness on behalf of the minor. The zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is the property of the minor.
(f) When the minor reaches the age of 18 years. (1) The only transactions that the custodian may make in the minor's account after the minor attains the age of 18 years are to purchase new securities, and to transfer the securities contained in the minor's account to another account in the name and SSN of the minor. The receiving account in the name and SSN of the minor may be a primary account established by the minor, or it may be another minor linked account with the same or a different custodian. The custodian may transfer one or more of the securities at a time, or the custodian may de-link the account and transfer all of the securities contained in the account to the minor's previously established primary TreasuryDirect account. The minor must establish his or her own primary TreasuryDirect account prior to transfer of his or her securities.
When the minor reaches the age of 18 years.
(1) The only transactions that the custodian may make in the minor's account after the minor attains the age of 18 years are to purchase new securities, and to transfer the securities contained in the minor's account to another account in the name and SSN of the minor. The receiving account in the name and SSN of the minor may be a primary account established by the minor, or it may be another minor linked account with the same or a different custodian. The custodian may transfer one or more of the securities at a time, or the custodian may de-link the account and transfer all of the securities contained in the account to the minor's previously established primary TreasuryDirect account. The minor must establish his or her own primary TreasuryDirect account prior to transfer of his or her securities.
(2) In order to gain control of the securities held in the minor's account, the minor must first open his or her own primary account.
(3) The minor may gain control of the securities held in the minor's account by the custodian transferring the securities held in the minor's account to the minor's primary account, or the minor may request that Fiscal Service transfer the securities to his or her primary account.
(4) The minor may gain control of his or her zero-percent certificate of indebtedness by the custodian de-linking the account and transferring the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness to the minor's primary account, or the minor may request that Fiscal Service de-link the account and transfer the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness to his or her primary account.
(g) Liability. We rely on the certification of the custodian that he or she is acting on behalf of the minor. We are not liable to the minor, or any other person or party acting on behalf of the minor, for the actions of the custodian, nor are we liable for the application of any proceeds from the transfer or redemption of securities held in the minor's account. The custodian agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the United States in the event that we suffer any loss on account of any claim relating to a minor account.
Liability.
We rely on the certification of the custodian that he or she is acting on behalf of the minor. We are not liable to the minor, or any other person or party acting on behalf of the minor, for the actions of the custodian, nor are we liable for the application of any proceeds from the transfer or redemption of securities held in the minor's account. The custodian agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the United States in the event that we suffer any loss on account of any claim relating to a minor account.
[[69 FR 2507, Jan. 16, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004; 70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009; 75 FR 78901, Dec. 17, 2010; 76 FR 18064, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 363.28   Does Fiscal Service reserve the right to require that any TreasuryDirect ® transaction be conducted in paper form?

We reserve the right to require any transaction to be conducted in paper form. Signatures on paper transactions must be certified or guaranteed as provided in § 363.43.
[[70 FR 57434, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.29   May Treasury close an account, suspend transactions in an account, or refuse to open an account?

We reserve the right to take any of the following actions if, in our sole discretion, we deem the action to be in the best interests of the United States:
(a) Refuse to open an account for any person;
(b) Close any existing account, redeem, sell, or liquidate the securities held in the account, and pay the proceeds to the person entitled;
(c) Suspend transactions with respect to an account or any security held in an account; or
(d) Take any other action with regard to any account that we deem necessary, if not inconsistent with existing law and existing rights.
[[70 FR 57434, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 30978, June 5, 2007]]

§ 363.30   What actions may Treasury take if funds used to purchase a security were credited or debited in error or through fraud?

(a) If Treasury sustains a loss because the funds used to purchase a security were debited from an account at a financial institution from which the TreasuryDirect account owner did not have the right to authorize such ACH debit entry, we reserve the right to redeem that security from the account and use the proceeds to reimburse Treasury for the loss. If such security has been transferred to another TreasuryDirect account, we reserve the right to reverse the transfer, redeem the security, and use the proceeds to reimburse Treasury for the loss. If such security has been redeemed or has matured and the proceeds paid to the account owner, we reserve the right to take any action that we deem appropriate, including redeeming other securities remaining in the account and using the proceeds to reimburse Treasury for the loss.
(b) If an employer or a third-party agent acting on behalf of one or more employers certifies, under penalty of perjury, that it has made an erroneous ACH credit entry to purchase a TreasuryDirect certificate of indebtedness, we reserve the right to redeem securities from the TreasuryDirect account to which the entry was made in the amount of the erroneous entry and return the funds. No action will be taken if the certification is not received by Treasury within 45 days of the erroneous entry. We will only return funds if the erroneous entry was made to an account that does not belong to the intended recipient, is a duplicate payment, is in an amount that is greater than was authorized by the recipient, or was made in error because the employee was not in a pay status. We reserve the right to refuse to return an entry. By requesting that Treasury correct an erroneous entry, the employer agrees to indemnify Treasury for any loss that Treasury may incur as a result of the correction of the error and agrees to provide such information and assistance as Treasury may require.
(c) If a financial institution, except a financial institution acting on behalf of an employer, makes an erroneous ACH credit entry to a TreasuryDirect® account and provides a certification as to the circumstances of the erroneous entry within 6 months of the entry date, we will notify the account owner of the erroneous ACH credit entry and attempt to resolve the issue. We reserve the right to place a hold on and to redeem securities from the TreasuryDirect® account to which the ACH credit entry was made in the amount of the erroneous credit entry and return the funds to the financial institution. The financial institution agrees to indemnify Treasury for any loss that Treasury may incur as a result of the correction of the error and agrees to provide information and assistance as Treasury may require.
[[75 FR 70815, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§§ 363.31-363.32   [Reserved]


§ 363.33   Can an attorney-in-fact conduct transactions in my TreasuryDirect ® account?

(a) An attorney-in-fact who provides a copy of a durable power of attorney granting him or her the authority to conduct TreasuryDirect transactions on behalf of the owner may conduct transactions online.
(b) An attorney-in-fact who provides a copy of a limited power of attorney may only conduct transactions that he or she is permitted by his or her power. Such transactions will be through an offline process.
(c) A written copy of the power of attorney must be sent to the address provided in § 363.5. We may require any additional evidence that we consider necessary to support the power.

§ 363.34   What happens if an owner becomes incompetent after opening a TreasuryDirect ® account?

If we receive notice that the owner of a TreasuryDirect account has become incompetent, we will suspend all transactions in the account until we establish the authority of another person to act in his or her behalf.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 24807, May 8, 2003]]

§ 363.35   When is a transaction effective?

A transaction is effective when we post it to our records.

§ 363.36   What securities can I purchase and hold in my TreasuryDirect ® account?

You can purchase and hold eligible Treasury securities in your account. Eligible securities are Series EE and Series I savings bonds, zero-percent certificates of indebtedness, and marketable Treasury securities that are available for purchase through the TreasuryDirect Web site. In addition, you can hold converted savings bonds and eligible marketable Treasury securities that have been transferred from the Legacy Treasury Direct system or the commercial book-entry system.
[[70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.37   How do I purchase and make payment for eligible Treasury securities through my TreasuryDirect ® account?

(a) Online purchase. Purchases of eligible Treasury securities through your TreasuryDirect account must be made online.
Online purchase.
Purchases of eligible Treasury securities through your TreasuryDirect account must be made online.
(b) Payment for savings bonds and marketable Treasury securities. You can pay for eligible savings bonds and marketable Treasury securities by either a debit from your designated account at a United States financial institution using the ACH method, or by using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. You can pay for savings bonds automatically using the redemption proceeds of your payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness through the payroll savings plan.
Payment for savings bonds and marketable Treasury securities.
You can pay for eligible savings bonds and marketable Treasury securities by either a debit from your designated account at a United States financial institution using the ACH method, or by using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. You can pay for savings bonds automatically using the redemption proceeds of your payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness through the payroll savings plan.
(c) Payment for zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. You can pay for a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness by:
Payment for zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.
You can pay for a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness by:
(1) A credit from your financial institution or employer using the ACH method to your TreasuryDirect® account;
(2) A debit from your designated account at a financial institution using the ACH method, limited to $1000 or less per transaction; or
(3) Using the proceeds of maturing securities held in your TreasuryDirect® account.
(d) Payment for a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. The only method available to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is to arrange for your employer or financial institution to send a credit by the ACH method to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in your TreasuryDirect® account.
Payment for a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.
The only method available to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is to arrange for your employer or financial institution to send a credit by the ACH method to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in your TreasuryDirect® account.
[[70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.38   What happens if my financial institution returns an ACH debit?

If your designated financial institution returns an ACH debit, we reserve the right to reinitiate the debit at our option. We also reserve the right to reverse the transaction, thereby removing the security from your TreasuryDirect ® account. If the ACH return occurs after the security has been redeemed, transferred, or has matured and the proceeds paid, we reserve the right to reverse previously processed security transactions. We are not responsible for any fees your financial institution may charge relating to returned ACH debits.
[[70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.39   Will I receive a confirmation of my request to purchase a Treasury security?

At the time that you submit a request to purchase a Treasury security through your TreasuryDirect ® account, we will make available a printable online confirmation of your request. Final confirmation will occur when the security is issued into your account. You will not receive a mailed confirmation.

§ 363.40   How are payments of principal and interest made?

(a) Payment of a savings bond that has reached final maturity. We will purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in your TreasuryDirect ® account using the proceeds of a matured savings bond.
Payment of a savings bond that has reached final maturity.
We will purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in your TreasuryDirect ® account using the proceeds of a matured savings bond.
(b) Payments of interest and principal (except a savings bond that has reached final maturity). (1) We provide two methods of receiving payments of principal and interest:
Payments of interest and principal (except a savings bond that has reached final maturity).
(1) We provide two methods of receiving payments of principal and interest:
(i) Payment to your account at a financial institution by the ACH method, or
(ii) Payment to your TreasuryDirect account to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.
(2) You may select different payment destinations for principal and interest for a marketable Treasury security. You may change your payment destination at any time, unless the security is in the closed book period. (See § 363.210.)
(3) If we are unable to deliver a payment, we will use the payment to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in your TreasuryDirect account.
[[70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.41   What happens if an ACH payment is returned to Fiscal Service?

We will notify you electronically of the returned payment. We will hold your payment until you provide us with instructions. Returned payments will not earn interest. We reserve the right to redirect a returned payment to the bank account at a financial institution that you have designated in your TreasuryDirect ® account as your primary bank account, if that account is different from the one that returned the payment to us. We are not responsible for any fees your financial institution may charge relating to returned ACH payments.
[[69 FR 50308, Aug. 16, 2004]]

§ 363.42   How will my interest income be reported for tax purposes?

When you open your TreasuryDirect ® account, you consent to receive the appropriate tax reporting forms by electronic means. We will notify you when your tax reporting forms are available. The form will be available in printable form through your TreasuryDirect account. If you withdraw your consent to receive tax reporting forms by electronic means, we reserve the right to redeem any savings bonds held in your account and close your account.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 57435, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.43   What are the procedures for certifying my signature on an offline application for a TreasuryDirect ® account, or on an offline transaction form?

(a) Certification within the United States. For certifications within the United States, the certifying individual must be authorized to bind his or her institution by his or her acts, to guarantee signatures to assignments of securities, or to certify assignments of securities. The following table provides a list of authorized certifying individuals and the required evidence of authority. Members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs are for security transfers only.
Certification within the United States.
For certifications within the United States, the certifying individual must be authorized to bind his or her institution by his or her acts, to guarantee signatures to assignments of securities, or to certify assignments of securities. The following table provides a list of authorized certifying individuals and the required evidence of authority. Members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs are for security transfers only.
Who can certify signatures in the U.S.
Evidence of certifying individual's authority
(1) Officers and employees of depository institutions
(i) We require the institution's seal or signature guarantee stamp.
(ii) If the institution is an authorized paying agent for U.S. Savings Bonds, we require a legible imprint of the paying agent's stamp.
(2) Institutions that are members of Treasury—recognized signature guarantee programs (for security transfers only)
We require the imprint of the signature guarantee stamp, i.e., the STAMP, SEMP, or MSP stamp for members of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program, or the New York Stock Exchange Inc. Medallion Signature Program.
(3) Officers and employees of corporate central credit unions, Federal Land Banks, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks and Banks for Cooperatives, the Central Bank for Cooperatives, and Federal Home Loan Banks
We require the entity's seal.
(4) Commissioned or warrant officers of the United States Armed Forces, for signatures executed by Armed Forces personnel, civilian field employees, and members of their families
(i) We require a statement that the person executing the assignment is one whose signature the officer is authorized to certify under our regulations.
(ii) The certifying official's rank must be shown.
(5) A judge or clerk of the court
We require the seal of the court.
(6) Other persons as designated by the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Fiscal Service
Evidence is determined by our procedures.
(b) Certification within foreign countries. The following table lists the authorized certifying individuals for foreign countries and the required evidence of the individual's authority.
Certification within foreign countries.
The following table lists the authorized certifying individuals for foreign countries and the required evidence of the individual's authority.
Who can certify signatures in foreign countries
Evidence of certifying individual's authority
(1) United States diplomatic or consular officials
(i) We require the seal or stamp of the office.
(ii) If there is no seal or stamp, then we require certification by some other authorized individual, under seal or stamp.
(2) Managers and officers of foreign branches of U.S. depository institutions and institutions that are members of Treasury-recognized signature guarantee programs (for security transfers only)
We require the seal of the depository institution, or the imprint of the signature guarantee stamp, i.e., the STAMP, SEMP, or MSP stamp for members of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program, the Stock Exchanges Medallion Program, or the New York Stock Exchange Incorporated Medallion Signature Program.
(3) Notaries Public and other officers authorized to administer oaths, provided their authority is certified by a United States diplomatic or consular official
(i) We require the official seal or stamp of the office.
(ii) If there is no seal or stamp, the position must be certified by some other authorized individual, under seal or stamp, or otherwise proved to our satisfaction.
(c) Duties and liabilities of certifying individuals. (1) The certifying individual must first establish the identity of the signer.
Duties and liabilities of certifying individuals.
(1) The certifying individual must first establish the identity of the signer.
(2) The form must be signed in the presence of the certifying individual.
(3) If the certifying individual is not an officer, the certifying individual must insert the words “Authorized Signature” in the space provided for the title.
(4) If the certifying individual is negligent in making the certification, the certifying individual and his or her organization are jointly and severally liable for any loss the United States may incur as a result of the negligence.
(d) Guaranteed signatures. (1) A security or other form requiring certification need not be executed in the presence of a certifying individual if the signature is unconditionally guaranteed by the certifying individual. To guarantee a signature, the certifying individual must add a dated endorsement after the signature. For example:
Guaranteed signatures.
(1) A security or other form requiring certification need not be executed in the presence of a certifying individual if the signature is unconditionally guaranteed by the certifying individual. To guarantee a signature, the certifying individual must add a dated endorsement after the signature. For example:
Signature guaranteed, First National Bank of Smithville, Smithville, NH, by A. B. Doe, President, dated 1/1/2001.
(2) The certifying individual and his or her organization unconditionally guarantee to us that the signature is genuine and the signer had the legal capacity to execute the assignment or related form.
(e) Guaranteed absence of a signature. (1) A form requiring a certified signature need not be signed when a certifying individual associated with a depository financial institution places the following endorsement on the security or the form:
Guaranteed absence of a signature.
(1) A form requiring a certified signature need not be signed when a certifying individual associated with a depository financial institution places the following endorsement on the security or the form:
Absence of signature by owner and validity of transaction guaranteed, Second State Bank of Jonesville, Jonesville, NC, by B. R. Butler, Vice President, dated 11/1/2001.
(2) The endorsement must be dated and the seal of the institution must be added.
(3) This form of endorsement is an unconditional guarantee to us that the institution is acting for the signer under proper authorization.
(f) Persons who cannot act as certifying individuals. Any person having an interest in a security involved in the transaction cannot act as a certifying individual. However, an authorized officer or employee of a depository financial institution that is a member of a Treasury-recognized signature guarantee program can act as a certifying individual for transfer of a security to the institution or on behalf of the institution.
Persons who cannot act as certifying individuals.
Any person having an interest in a security involved in the transaction cannot act as a certifying individual. However, an authorized officer or employee of a depository financial institution that is a member of a Treasury-recognized signature guarantee program can act as a certifying individual for transfer of a security to the institution or on behalf of the institution.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 57435, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.44   What happens when a TreasuryDirect ® account owner dies and the estate is entitled to securities held in the account?

(a) Estate is being administered. For an estate that is being administered, the legal representative of the estate must open a TreasuryDirect account in the name of the estate in order to conduct transactions. The legal representative of the estate may then conduct any transactions that are available to an individual account owner. We will require appropriate proof of appointment for the legal representative of the estate. Letters of appointment must be dated not more than one year prior to the date of submission of the letters of appointment.
Estate is being administered.
For an estate that is being administered, the legal representative of the estate must open a TreasuryDirect account in the name of the estate in order to conduct transactions. The legal representative of the estate may then conduct any transactions that are available to an individual account owner. We will require appropriate proof of appointment for the legal representative of the estate. Letters of appointment must be dated not more than one year prior to the date of submission of the letters of appointment.
(b) Estate has been settled previously. If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment of securities, if the securities are eligible for redemption, or may transfer the securities to the TreasuryDirect accounts of the persons entitled, if the securities are eligible for transfer. We will require a certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence. If payment is requested, we will require ACH instructions to process the request.
Estate has been settled previously.
If the estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may request payment of securities, if the securities are eligible for redemption, or may transfer the securities to the TreasuryDirect accounts of the persons entitled, if the securities are eligible for transfer. We will require a certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence. If payment is requested, we will require ACH instructions to process the request.
(c) Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile. If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under summary or small estates procedures under applicable local law may request payment of securities, if the securities are eligible for redemption, or may transfer the securities to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death, if the securities are eligible for transfer. We will require appropriate evidence. If payment is requested, we will require ACH instructions to process the request.
Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile.
If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under summary or small estates procedures under applicable local law may request payment of securities, if the securities are eligible for redemption, or may transfer the securities to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death, if the securities are eligible for transfer. We will require appropriate evidence. If payment is requested, we will require ACH instructions to process the request.
(d) When administration is required. If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
When administration is required.
If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.
(e) Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered—(1) General. A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to redeem or transfer a decedent's securities. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's securities and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
Voluntary representative for small estates that are not being otherwise administered
—(1)
General.
A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, to redeem or transfer a decedent's securities. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's securities and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:
(i) There has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, and no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used;
(ii) The total redemption value of the Treasury securities and held payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is $100,000 or less, as of the date of death, and
(iii) There is a person eligible to serve as the voluntary representative according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) Authority of voluntary representative. A voluntary representative may:
Authority of voluntary representative.
A voluntary representative may:
(i) Redeem the decedent's savings bonds that are eligible for redemption. Payment may be made to the voluntary representative on behalf of or directly to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death;
(ii) Transfer the decedent's securities to the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death.
(3) Order of precedence for voluntary representative. An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: a surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the laws of the decedent's domicile at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
Order of precedence for voluntary representative.
An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: a surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the laws of the decedent's domicile at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.
(4) Liability. By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or securities are to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or securities. Upon payment or transfer of the securities to the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
Liability.
By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of payments or securities are to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of payments or securities. Upon payment or transfer of the securities to the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.
(5) Creditor. If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment of the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
Creditor.
If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment of the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.
[[70 FR 57435, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.45   What are the rules for judicial and administrative actions involving securities held in TreasuryDirect ®?

(a) Notice of adverse claim or pending judicial proceedings. We are not subject to and will not accept a notice of an adverse claim or notice of pending judicial proceedings involving a security held in TreasuryDirect.
Notice of adverse claim or pending judicial proceedings.
We are not subject to and will not accept a notice of an adverse claim or notice of pending judicial proceedings involving a security held in TreasuryDirect.
(b) Competing claims to a security. The Department of the Treasury, Fiscal Service, and the Federal Reserve Banks are not proper defendants in a judicial proceeding involving competing claims to a security held in TreasuryDirect.
Competing claims to a security.
The Department of the Treasury, Fiscal Service, and the Federal Reserve Banks are not proper defendants in a judicial proceeding involving competing claims to a security held in TreasuryDirect.
(c) Divorce decree. We will recognize a divorce decree that either disposes of a security held in TreasuryDirect or ratifies a property settlement agreement disposing of a security that is the property of either of the parties. If the divorce decree does not set out the terms of the property settlement agreement, we will require a certified copy of the agreement.
Divorce decree.
We will recognize a divorce decree that either disposes of a security held in TreasuryDirect or ratifies a property settlement agreement disposing of a security that is the property of either of the parties. If the divorce decree does not set out the terms of the property settlement agreement, we will require a certified copy of the agreement.
(d) Final court order. We will recognize a final order entered by a court that affects ownership rights in a security held in TreasuryDirect only to the extent that the order is consistent with the provisions of this part. The owner of the security must be a party to the proceedings.
Final court order.
We will recognize a final order entered by a court that affects ownership rights in a security held in TreasuryDirect only to the extent that the order is consistent with the provisions of this part. The owner of the security must be a party to the proceedings.
(e) Levy to satisfy money judgment. We will honor a transaction request submitted by a person appointed by a court and having authority under an order of a court to dispose of a security held in TreasuryDirect pursuant to a money judgment against the owner of the security, as owner is defined in § 363.6 of this part. In the case of savings bonds, we will only make payment pursuant to the court order to the extent of the money judgment. We will not transfer the savings bonds.
Levy to satisfy money judgment.
We will honor a transaction request submitted by a person appointed by a court and having authority under an order of a court to dispose of a security held in TreasuryDirect pursuant to a money judgment against the owner of the security, as owner is defined in § 363.6 of this part. In the case of savings bonds, we will only make payment pursuant to the court order to the extent of the money judgment. We will not transfer the savings bonds.
(f) Internal Revenue Service (IRS) levy. We will honor an IRS notice of levy under section 6331 of the Internal Revenue Code:
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) levy.
We will honor an IRS notice of levy under section 6331 of the Internal Revenue Code:
(1) Against the owner, as owner is defined in § 363.6 of this part, including a levy against the owner in the capacity of nominee, transferee, or alter ego;
(2) Against a secondary owner, if the secondary owner has the right to conduct transactions in a security at the date and time the notice of levy is delivered to Fiscal Service; or
(3) Against an owner's property to which a federal tax lien is attached.
(g) Trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer. We will honor a transaction request submitted by a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer, if the original court order is against the owner, as owner is defined in § 363.6 of this part. In the case of savings bonds, we will only make payment. We will not transfer the savings bonds.
Trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer.
We will honor a transaction request submitted by a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver of an insolvent's estate, a receiver in equity, or a similar court officer, if the original court order is against the owner, as owner is defined in § 363.6 of this part. In the case of savings bonds, we will only make payment. We will not transfer the savings bonds.
(h) Court order that attempts to defeat or impair survivorship rights. We will not recognize a court order that attempts to defeat or impair the survivorship rights of a beneficiary, secondary owner, coowner of a converted savings bond, or the registered owner of an undelivered gift security held in TreasuryDirect.
Court order that attempts to defeat or impair survivorship rights.
We will not recognize a court order that attempts to defeat or impair the survivorship rights of a beneficiary, secondary owner, coowner of a converted savings bond, or the registered owner of an undelivered gift security held in TreasuryDirect.
[[70 FR 57435, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.46   What evidence is required to establish the validity of judicial proceedings?

(a) We will require certified copies of the final judgment, decree, or court order, and any necessary supplementary proceedings.
(b) A transaction request by a trustee in bankruptcy or a receiver of an insolvent's estate must be supported by evidence of appointment and qualification.
(c) A transaction request by a receiver in equity or a similar court officer (other than a receiver of an insolvent's estate) must be supported by a copy of an order that authorizes the receiver or similar court officer to take possession and control of the security.
[[70 FR 57435, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.47   Will Fiscal Service pay Treasury securities pursuant to a forfeiture proceeding?

(a) General. We will honor a judicial or administrative forfeiture order or declaration of forfeiture submitted by a federal agency. We will rely exclusively upon the information provided by the Federal forfeiting agency and will not make any independent evaluation of the validity of the forfeiture order, the request for payment, or the authority of the individual signing the transaction request. The amount to be paid or transferred is limited to the value of the security as of the date of forfeiture.
General.
We will honor a judicial or administrative forfeiture order or declaration of forfeiture submitted by a federal agency. We will rely exclusively upon the information provided by the Federal forfeiting agency and will not make any independent evaluation of the validity of the forfeiture order, the request for payment, or the authority of the individual signing the transaction request. The amount to be paid or transferred is limited to the value of the security as of the date of forfeiture.
(b) Definition of special terms relating to forfeitures.
Definition of special terms relating to forfeitures.
Contact point means the individual designated by the Federal investigative agency, United States Attorney's Office, or forfeiting agency, to receive referrals from Fiscal Service.
Contact point
means the individual designated by the Federal investigative agency, United States Attorney's Office, or forfeiting agency, to receive referrals from Fiscal Service.
Forfeiting agency means the federal law enforcement agency responsible for the forfeiture.
Forfeiting agency
means the federal law enforcement agency responsible for the forfeiture.
Forfeiture means the process by which property may be forfeited by a federal agency. Administrative forfeiture is forfeiture by a federal agency without judicial proceedings resulting in a declaration of forfeiture; judicial forfeiture is a forfeiture through either a civil or criminal proceeding in a United States District Court resulting in a final judgment and order of forfeiture.
Forfeiture
means the process by which property may be forfeited by a federal agency. Administrative forfeiture is forfeiture by a federal agency without judicial proceedings resulting in a declaration of forfeiture; judicial forfeiture is a forfeiture through either a civil or criminal proceeding in a United States District Court resulting in a final judgment and order of forfeiture.
(c) Procedures for a forfeiting agency to request forfeiture of Treasury securities. A forfeiting agency must request forfeiture. An individual authorized by the forfeiting agency must sign the transaction request. The request must be mailed to the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-7015.
Procedures for a forfeiting agency to request forfeiture of Treasury securities.
A forfeiting agency must request forfeiture. An individual authorized by the forfeiting agency must sign the transaction request. The request must be mailed to the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-7015.
(d) Fiscal Service procedures upon receipt of forfeiture request. Upon receipt and review of the transaction request, we will make payment to the forfeiture fund specified, if the security is eligible for payment, or we will transfer the security pursuant to the transaction request. We will record the forfeiture, the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were paid or the security transfer records, the contact point, and any related information.
Fiscal Service procedures upon receipt of forfeiture request.
Upon receipt and review of the transaction request, we will make payment to the forfeiture fund specified, if the security is eligible for payment, or we will transfer the security pursuant to the transaction request. We will record the forfeiture, the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were paid or the security transfer records, the contact point, and any related information.
(e) Inquiries from previous owner. All inquiries or claims from the previous owner will be referred to the contact point of the forfeiting agency. We will tell the person who inquired that we referred his or her inquiry to the contact point. We will not investigate the inquiry. We will defer to the forfeiting agency's determination of the appropriate course of action, including settlement where appropriate. Any settlement will be paid from the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were deposited.
Inquiries from previous owner.
All inquiries or claims from the previous owner will be referred to the contact point of the forfeiting agency. We will tell the person who inquired that we referred his or her inquiry to the contact point. We will not investigate the inquiry. We will defer to the forfeiting agency's determination of the appropriate course of action, including settlement where appropriate. Any settlement will be paid from the forfeiture fund into which the proceeds were deposited.
[[70 FR 57436, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§§ 363.48-363.49   [Reserved]


Subpart C—Book-Entry Savings Bonds Purchased Through TreasuryDirect


General


§ 363.50   What Treasury securities does this subpart govern?

This subpart governs:
(a) Series EE and Series I book-entry savings bonds that were originally issued as book-entry bonds through TreasuryDirect ®; and
(b) Converted savings bonds that are registered in:
(1) The single owner or entity form of registration of any series,
(2) The owner with beneficiary form of registration of Series EE and Series I savings bonds,
(3) The owner with beneficiary form of registration of Series E savings bonds in which the beneficiary has consented to a change in the registration of the bond after conversion, and
(4) The coowner form of registration of any series in which the non-converting coowner has consented to a change in the registration of the bond after conversion.
[[70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.51   [Reserved]


§ 363.52   What is the principal amount of book-entry Series EE and Series I savings bonds that I may acquire in one year?

(a) The principal amount of book-entry savings bonds that you may acquire in any calendar year is limited to $10,000 for Series EE savings bonds and $10,000 for Series I savings bonds.
(b) Bonds purchased or transferred as gifts will be included in the computation of this limit for the account of the recipient for the year in which the bonds are delivered to the recipient.
(c) Bonds purchased as gifts or in a fiduciary capacity are not included in the computation for the purchaser. Bonds received due to the death of the registered owner are not included in the computation for the recipient.
(d) We reserve the right to take any action we deem necessary to adjust the excess, including the right to remove the excess bonds from your TreasuryDirect account and refund the payment price to your bank account of record using the ACH method of payment.
[[77 FR 213, Jan. 4, 2012]]

§ 363.53   What is the minimum amount of book-entry savings bonds that I may purchase in any transaction?

Each bond purchase must be in a minimum amount of $25, with additional one-cent increments above that amount, in any one transaction. For example, a purchase may be $25.00, $25.01, $25.02, or $25.03, and so forth.

§ 363.54   What is the minimum amount of a book-entry savings bond that I must hold in my account?

Each bond held in your account must have a redemption value of at least $25. If you request a transaction that would reduce the remaining redemption value of the bond to an amount less than $25, we will not permit the transaction to occur.

§ 363.55   May I transfer my book-entry savings bonds to another person?

(a) You may transfer a savings bond or a portion of a savings bond to the TreasuryDirect ® account of another person in a minimum amount of $25. The transfer may only be made as a gift or in response to a final judgment, court order, divorce decree, or property settlement agreement. You must certify online that the transfer is a gift or a specified exception.
(b) We do not permit the transfer of savings bonds for consideration, unless it is an exception specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) If the bond is being transferred to an individual, the bond will be transferred in the single owner form of registration. If the bond is being transferred to an entity, the bond will be transferred in the entity form of registration.
(d) We reserve the right to limit the transferability of savings bonds at any time by amendment to these regulations.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 24807, May 8, 2003; 70 FR 57436, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.56   What is the minimum amount of book-entry savings bonds that I may transfer in any one transaction?

Each transfer must be in a minimum amount of $25 redemption value, with additional one-cent increments above that amount, in any one transaction. For example, you may transfer $25.00, $25.01, $25.02, or $25.03, and so forth. Transfers will be comprised of principal and proportionate interest.

§ 363.57   What is the minimum amount of book-entry savings bonds that I may redeem in any one transaction?

Each redemption must be in a minimum amount of $25 redemption value, with additional one-cent increments above that amount, in any one transaction. For example, you may redeem $25.00, $25.01, $25.02, or $25.03, and so forth. Redemptions will be comprised of principal and proportionate interest.

§ 363.58   May book-entry savings bonds be pledged or used as collateral?

Bonds may not be pledged or used as collateral for the performance of an obligation.

§ 363.59   What is a payroll savings plan?

A payroll savings plan is an automatic method of purchasing savings bonds. (See the definition in § 363.6.) You may open your payroll savings plan by selecting an amount, series, and registration for your savings bond purchases using functionality in your TreasuryDirect® account. Each bond purchase must be in a minimum amount of $25 with additional one-cent increments above that amount, up to a maximum amount of $5000, in any one transaction. The series may be either a Series EE or Series I savings bond. The registration may be any authorized form of registration for an electronic savings bond. You must also initiate a request to your employer or your financial institution to send credits on a recurring basis to your payroll savings plan through the ACH method to purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. (See Subpart D for more information about a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.) When you have accumulated a sufficient amount of payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness to purchase a savings bond in the amount, series, and registration that you selected, the TreasuryDirect® system will automatically redeem your payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness and purchase your selected savings bond.
[[75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.60   How do I discontinue my participation in my payroll savings plan?

You may discontinue your participation in your payroll savings plan by arranging with your employer or financial institution to discontinue sending funds.
[[75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§§ 363.61-363.82   [Reserved]


§ 363.83   May an account owner transfer a book-entry savings bond to a minor?

An account owner may transfer a bond to a minor as a gift or pursuant to one of the specified exceptions in § 363.55(a).

§§ 363.84-363.94   [Reserved]


Gifts


§ 363.95   How may I give, and who can receive, a book-entry savings bond as a gift?

You may give a book-entry savings bond as a gift in two ways:
(a) An individual may purchase a book-entry savings bond online as a gift and give it to an individual; or
(b) A person who owns a bond may transfer that bond to another person as a gift with immediate delivery.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 24807, May 8, 2003; 70 FR 57437, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.96   What do I need to know if I initially purchase a bond as a gift?

(a) An entity may not purchase a gift savings bond.
(b) The gift bond will be registered in the name of the recipient(s). The registration is irrevocable with regard to the owner named on the gift bond.
(c) You must provide the SSN of the recipient.
(d) You may deliver the bond upon purchase, or you may hold the bond in your TreasuryDirect ® account until you are ready to deliver the bond to the owner named on the gift bond.
(e) If the purchaser dies before delivering a gift bond to the recipient, the bond belongs to the owner named on the gift bond, notwithstanding any testamentary attempts to the contrary by the purchaser, or any state law to the contrary. We will hold the bond until we receive instructions from the owner named on the gift bond.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 2508, Jan. 16, 2004; 74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.97   What do I need to know if I transfer a book-entry savings bond to another person as a gift?

(a) You must certify online that the transfer is a gift.
(b) You must provide the SSN or EIN of the recipient.
(c) Once the transfer is made, the gift is irrevocable.
(d) The bond will be transferred in the single owner form of registration for individual account owners, and in the entity form of registration for account owners that are entities.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.98   [Reserved]


§ 363.99   What is the minimum amount of a bond that I may transfer or deliver as a gift in any one transaction?

You may transfer or deliver gift bonds in any one-cent increment value equal to or greater than $25.00 redemption value. For example, you may deliver a gift bond with a redemption value of $25.00, $25.01, $25.02, and so forth. If the bond was held in your account prior to delivery to the recipient for a period of time and has accrued interest, the delivery will include principal and proportionate interest.

§ 363.100   What are the rules for purchasing and delivering gift savings bonds to minors?

(a) A TreasuryDirect ® account owner can purchase a savings bond as a gift with a minor as the recipient.
(b) An account owner can deliver a bond purchased as a gift to a minor. The account owner must deliver the security to the minor's linked account. Once delivered, the bond will be under the control of the custodian of the minor's account. (See § 363.27.)
[[70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.101   Can an account owner transfer a book-entry savings bond to a minor?

An account owner can transfer a book-entry savings bond held in TreasuryDirect ® to a minor as a gift or pursuant to one of the specified exceptions in § 363.55(a).
[[70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§§ 363.102-363.124   [Reserved]


Payment


§ 363.125   How is payment made on a book-entry savings bond?

We will make payment by the ACH method to the designated account at a United States depository financial institution.

§ 363.126   Under what circumstances will payment be made?

We will make payment:
(a) Upon your request for redemption prior to maturity;
(b) When the bond reaches final maturity; and
(c) If a person who becomes entitled to the bond is unable, unwilling or ineligible to open a TreasuryDirect ® account.

§§ 363.127-363.129   [Reserved]


Subpart D—Zero-Percent Certificate of Indebtedness

[Source:69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

General


§ 363.130   What does this subpart cover?

This subpart is the offering of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness by the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary), and will continue until suspended or terminated by the Secretary. This subpart is also the governing regulations for the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.

§ 363.131   What is a TreasuryDirect ® zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

A TreasuryDirect® zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is a non-interest-bearing security that is issued daily, with a one-day maturity, which automatically rolls over at maturity until you request redemption. A zero-percent certificate of indebtedness has a minimum purchase amount of one cent. The only purpose of a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is to accumulate funds for the purchase of another eligible security in the TreasuryDirect system. A zero-percent certificate of indebtedness within a minor's account is the property of the minor alone. The payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is a restricted form of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness that is held separately from the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness and used only for purchases made through the payroll savings plan.
[[69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.132   Can the sale of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness be suspended?

The Secretary may suspend and rescind the suspension of sales of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness by announcement at any time.

§ 363.133   What happens to my zero-percent certificate of indebtedness if the offering is terminated by the Secretary?

Upon the termination of this offering by the Secretary, the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness ceases to roll over; the proceeds will be paid by the ACH method to the bank account at a financial institution that you designated in your TreasuryDirect ® account as your primary bank account.

§ 363.134   What regulations cover a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

The regulations in part 363 apply to a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. We expressly disclaim representations or warranties regarding a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness that in any way conflict with these regulations and other applicable law.

§ 363.135   In what form is a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness issued?

A zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is issued in electronic form only in the TreasuryDirect ® system.

§ 363.136   Do zero-percent certificates of indebtedness pay interest?

Zero-percent certificates of indebtedness do not pay any interest. However, the Secretary may prescribe a rate of interest, or change the interest rate, for zero-percent certificates of indebtedness by announcement at any time. The new rate would apply to zero-percent certificates of indebtedness issued thereafter, as provided in the announcement. The Secretary's determination of the rate will be final.

§ 363.137   What do I need to know about the registration of a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

A zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is automatically registered in the name of the TreasuryDirect ® account owner.
[[74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.138   Is Treasury liable for the purchase of a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness that is made in error?

We are not liable for any deposits of funds for the purchase of a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness that are made in error by your financial institution or employer.
[[69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004. Redesignated at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.139   May I transfer or deliver my zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

A zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is nontransferable. You may not deliver a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness to another TreasuryDirect ® account as a gift.
[[69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004. Redesignated at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.140   May a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness be pledged or used as collateral?

A zero-percent certificate of indebtedness may not be pledged or used as collateral for the performance of an obligation.
[[69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004. Redesignated at 70 FR 57437, Sept. 30, 2005, and further redesignated at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

Zero-Percent Certificate of Indebtedness


§ 363.141   How do I purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

(a) Primary and linked accounts. You may purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness through one or more of the following four methods:
Primary and linked accounts.
You may purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness through one or more of the following four methods:
(1) Payroll deduction, in which your employer sends funds through the ACH method to your TreasuryDirect® account;
(2) Deposit by your financial institution, in which your financial institution sends funds by the ACH method to your TreasuryDirect® account on a recurring or one-time basis;
(3) Through the Buy Direct function of your TreasuryDirect® account, in which you direct us to debit funds from your financial institution account to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. This method is limited to an amount no greater than $1000 per transaction. When you use the Buy Direct function to debit funds to purchase all or a portion of a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, you will not be permitted to schedule a redemption to your financial institution from the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness within five business days after the settlement date of the debit entry; and
(4) By using the proceeds from the redemption of a savings bond, the proceeds of a maturing security, or an interest payment from a security to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.
(b) Payroll savings plan. You may purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness for your payroll savings plan through payroll deduction, in which your employer sends funds through the ACH method to your TreasuryDirect® payroll savings plan, or through a credit using the ACH method by your financial institution, in which your financial institution sends funds by the ACH method to your TreasuryDirect® payroll savings plan.
Payroll savings plan.
You may purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness for your payroll savings plan through payroll deduction, in which your employer sends funds through the ACH method to your TreasuryDirect® payroll savings plan, or through a credit using the ACH method by your financial institution, in which your financial institution sends funds by the ACH method to your TreasuryDirect® payroll savings plan.
[[75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.142   When is a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness issued?

A zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is issued the business day after the purchase transaction is made.
[[69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004. Redesignated at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.143   How do I purchase a security using the redemption proceeds of my zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

You may purchase an eligible security by redeeming all or a portion of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness and applying the proceeds toward the purchase of another eligible security. To do this, your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness must be of sufficient value to cover the cost of the security. If you are paying for a security using the redemption proceeds of a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, you must pay the full amount of the purchase price of the security using the redemption proceeds.
[[69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004. Redesignated at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.144   Can I redeem my zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

You can redeem part or all of the value of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness at any time, with one exception: if you purchased all or a portion of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness through a debit using the ACH method, you may not schedule a redemption from your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness within five business days after the date of the debit entry.
[[70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005. Redesignated at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.145   May I delete a pending transaction involving a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

(a) You may delete a pending purchase of a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness initiated from your TreasuryDirect ® account.
(b) You may delete a pending purchase of a security using a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness as payment.
(c) You may not delete a pending redemption of all or part of the value of a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.
[[69 FR 50309, Aug. 16, 2004. Redesignated at 75 FR 70816, Nov. 19, 2010]]

Payroll Zero-Percent Certificate of Indebtedness


§ 363.146   Who may purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

Only an individual TreasuryDirect® account owner may purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, only through his or her primary account, and only through the payroll savings plan.
[[75 FR 70817, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.147   How do I purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

You may purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness through your TreasuryDirect® account using your payroll savings plan. (See §§ 363.59 and 363.60 for more information on opening a payroll savings plan.) The only method of purchase for a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is a credit of funds from your employer or financial institution using the ACH method. You cannot purchase a payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness by using a debit from your financial institution.
[[75 FR 70817, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§ 363.148   Can I redeem all or a portion of my accumulated payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness?

You may redeem all or a portion of your accumulated payroll zero-percent certificate of indebtedness to any financial institution that is of record in your TreasuryDirect® account.
[[75 FR 70817, Nov. 19, 2010]]

§§ 363.149-363.152   [Reserved]


Subpart E—Conversion of a Definitive Savings Bond

[Source:70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

§ 363.160   What subparts govern the conversion of definitive savings bonds?

(a) This subpart governs:
(1) The process of converting definitive savings bonds of all eligible series and types of registration to book-entry bonds in TreasuryDirect ®;
(2) Converted savings bonds of all series registered in the coowner form of registration, unless the non-converting coowner consents to a change in the registration of the bonds after conversion;
(3) Converted savings bonds of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration, unless the beneficiary consents to a change in the registration of the bonds after conversion; and
(4) Converted savings bonds of all series that are held as gift bonds by the person who converted the bonds.
(b) Subpart C governs:
(1) Converted savings bonds of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration;
(2) Converted Series EE and Series I savings bonds registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration;
(3) Converted Series E savings bonds registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration, where the beneficiary has consented to a change in the registration of the bonds after conversion; and
(4) Converted savings bonds of all series registered in the coowner form of registration, where the non-converting coowner has consented to a change in the registration of the bonds after conversion.
[[70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 57347, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.161   What definitive savings bonds are eligible to be converted to book-entry bonds?

Series E, Series EE, and Series I savings bonds issued in denominations of $25 or greater are eligible for conversion to book-entry bonds in TreasuryDirect ®.
[[74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.162   Who may convert a definitive savings bond?

The owner of a TreasuryDirect ® primary account may convert a definitive savings bond.
(a) Bond that is registered to the account owner. The following persons may convert a definitive savings bond of an eligible series to a book-entry bond to be held in the person's TreasuryDirect account:
Bond that is registered to the account owner.
The following persons may convert a definitive savings bond of an eligible series to a book-entry bond to be held in the person's TreasuryDirect account:
(1) The owner of a definitive savings bond registered in the single owner or entity form of registration;
(2) Either co-owner of a bond registered in the coowner form of registration; and
(3) The owner of a bond registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.
(b) Bond that is registered to someone other than the account owner. We will convert an eligible definitive savings bond submitted by an individual account owner who is not the registered owner of the savings bond. See the special rules in § 363.166.
Bond that is registered to someone other than the account owner.
We will convert an eligible definitive savings bond submitted by an individual account owner who is not the registered owner of the savings bond. See the special rules in § 363.166.
[[74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.163   How do I convert an eligible definitive savings bond?

We will provide online instructions for converting your definitive savings bond. You must surrender to us the definitive bond to be converted at the time of conversion.

§ 363.164   Is a converted savings bond eligible to be converted back into a definitive bond?

Once a definitive savings bond has been converted to a book-entry bond, it may not be converted back into a definitive bond.

§ 363.165   What happens when I convert a savings bond that is registered in my name as a single owner, either coowner, an owner with a beneficiary, or an entity?

(a) Unmatured savings bond. When the conversion is approved, an unmatured savings bond that is registered in the name of the TreasuryDirect ® account owner as a single owner, either coowner, an owner with beneficiary, or an entity, will be released to the account owner's conversion linked account.
Unmatured savings bond.
When the conversion is approved, an unmatured savings bond that is registered in the name of the TreasuryDirect ® account owner as a single owner, either coowner, an owner with beneficiary, or an entity, will be released to the account owner's conversion linked account.
(b) Matured savings bond. A savings bond that has reached final maturity and is registered in the name of the TreasuryDirect account owner as a single owner, either coowner, an owner with beneficiary, or an entity, will be converted to a book-entry savings bond and automatically redeemed. The redemption proceeds will be used to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in the account owner's name in the primary account.
Matured savings bond.
A savings bond that has reached final maturity and is registered in the name of the TreasuryDirect account owner as a single owner, either coowner, an owner with beneficiary, or an entity, will be converted to a book-entry savings bond and automatically redeemed. The redemption proceeds will be used to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in the account owner's name in the primary account.
[[74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.166   What happens when I convert a savings bond that is not registered in my name as owner, either coowner, or owner with beneficiary (including a bond registered in the name of a minor)?

We will presume that a savings bond registered in the name of someone other than the TreasuryDirect ® account owner (including a bond registered in the name of a minor) was purchased by the account owner as a gift for the registered owner. We will not permit an entity to convert a savings bond that is not registered in the name of the entity.
(a) Unmatured savings bond—(1) General. An unmatured savings bond registered in the name of someone other than the account owner will be converted to a book-entry bond, released as a gift bond to the account owner's conversion linked account, and held until delivered to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner.
Unmatured savings bond
—(1)
General.
An unmatured savings bond registered in the name of someone other than the account owner will be converted to a book-entry bond, released as a gift bond to the account owner's conversion linked account, and held until delivered to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner.
(2) Delivery of unmatured gift bond to registered owner. The TreasuryDirect account owner may deliver the converted gift bond to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner, or, if the bond is registered in the coowner form of registration, to the account of either coowner. A bond registered in coowner or owner with beneficiary form of registration will retain the coowner or beneficiary form of registration upon delivery.
Delivery of unmatured gift bond to registered owner.
The TreasuryDirect account owner may deliver the converted gift bond to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner, or, if the bond is registered in the coowner form of registration, to the account of either coowner. A bond registered in coowner or owner with beneficiary form of registration will retain the coowner or beneficiary form of registration upon delivery.
(b) Savings bond that has reached final maturity—(1) General. A savings bond that has reached final maturity and is registered in the name of someone other than the account owner will be converted to a book-entry bond, released as a gift bond into the account owner's conversion linked account, and automatically redeemed. We will hold the redemption proceeds in the name of the registered owner of the definitive bond until the proceeds are delivered to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner.
Savings bond that has reached final maturity
—(1)
General.
A savings bond that has reached final maturity and is registered in the name of someone other than the account owner will be converted to a book-entry bond, released as a gift bond into the account owner's conversion linked account, and automatically redeemed. We will hold the redemption proceeds in the name of the registered owner of the definitive bond until the proceeds are delivered to the TreasuryDirect account (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor) of the registered owner.
(2) Delivery of bond proceeds to registered owner. If the gift bond has reached final maturity and has been automatically redeemed, then the Treasury Direct account owner may direct that the held redemption proceeds be delivered to the Treasury Direct account of the registered owner (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor), where we will use the proceeds to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in the name of the registered owner. If the bond is registered in the coowner form of registration, the account owner may direct that the held redemption proceeds be delivered to the account of either coowner, where we will use the proceeds to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in the name of the coowner to whose account the bond was delivered.
Delivery of bond proceeds to registered owner.
If the gift bond has reached final maturity and has been automatically redeemed, then the Treasury Direct account owner may direct that the held redemption proceeds be delivered to the Treasury Direct account of the registered owner (or minor linked account, if the registered owner is a minor), where we will use the proceeds to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in the name of the registered owner. If the bond is registered in the coowner form of registration, the account owner may direct that the held redemption proceeds be delivered to the account of either coowner, where we will use the proceeds to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness in the name of the coowner to whose account the bond was delivered.
[[70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 57347, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.167   How will a converted savings bond be registered?

The registration of the converted bond will be the same as on the definitive bond, provided that it was registered properly in an authorized form of registration. We will change a definitive savings bond that was not registered in an authorized form of registration to the closest authorized form of registration. For example, a definitive savings bond erroneously registered “John Doe and Jane Doe” will be changed to “John Doe or Jane Doe.” We are not liable to any person for any such decision as to the closest form of authorized registration.

§ 363.168   What rules regarding registration apply to a converted savings bond?

(a) Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration. By converting a definitive bond of any eligible series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration to book-entry in TreasuryDirect ®, the owner has consented to the bond being governed by the rules regarding registration contained in subpart C of this part.
Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration.
By converting a definitive bond of any eligible series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration to book-entry in TreasuryDirect ®, the owner has consented to the bond being governed by the rules regarding registration contained in subpart C of this part.
(b) Savings bond of Series EE or Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration. By converting a definitive bond of Series EE or Series I registered in an owner with beneficiary form of registration to a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, the owner has consented to the bond being governed by the rules regarding registration contained in subpart C of this part.
Savings bond of Series EE or Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.
By converting a definitive bond of Series EE or Series I registered in an owner with beneficiary form of registration to a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, the owner has consented to the bond being governed by the rules regarding registration contained in subpart C of this part.
(c) Savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration. The registration of a converted savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration may be changed upon the request of the owner and the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account.
Savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.
The registration of a converted savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration may be changed upon the request of the owner and the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account.
(d) Savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration. The registration of a converted savings bond of any eligible series registered in the coowner form of registration may be changed upon the request of one coowner and the consent of the other coowner. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account.
Savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration.
The registration of a converted savings bond of any eligible series registered in the coowner form of registration may be changed upon the request of one coowner and the consent of the other coowner. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account.
[[70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.169   What transactions can I conduct in a converted savings bond on which I am registered as the single owner, either coowner, the owner with a beneficiary, or an entity?

(a) Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration. By converting a definitive savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration to a book-entry bond, you have consented to the bond being treated as if it were originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect ®. The bond will be subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part. Any transaction available for a book-entry bond originally issued in the TreasuryDirect system is available for a converted bond registered in single owner or entity form of registration.
Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration.
By converting a definitive savings bond of any series registered in the single owner or entity form of registration to a book-entry bond, you have consented to the bond being treated as if it were originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect ®. The bond will be subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part. Any transaction available for a book-entry bond originally issued in the TreasuryDirect system is available for a converted bond registered in single owner or entity form of registration.
(b) Savings bond of Series EE and Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration. By converting a definitive savings bond registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration to a book-entry bond, you have consented to the bond being treated as if it were originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect. The bond will be subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part. Any transaction available for a book-entry bond purchased in the TreasuryDirect system is available for a converted bond of Series EE and Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.
Savings bond of Series EE and Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.
By converting a definitive savings bond registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration to a book-entry bond, you have consented to the bond being treated as if it were originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect. The bond will be subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part. Any transaction available for a book-entry bond purchased in the TreasuryDirect system is available for a converted bond of Series EE and Series I registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.
(c) Savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration. The owner of a converted Series E bond registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration may make the following transactions:
Savings bond of Series E registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration.
The owner of a converted Series E bond registered in the owner with beneficiary form of registration may make the following transactions:
(1) Provide view rights to the beneficiary. The owner may provide the beneficiary with the right to view the bond in the beneficiary's TreasuryDirect account. Once the right to view the bond is provided to the beneficiary, the owner may not revoke that right.
Provide view rights to the beneficiary.
The owner may provide the beneficiary with the right to view the bond in the beneficiary's TreasuryDirect account. Once the right to view the bond is provided to the beneficiary, the owner may not revoke that right.
(2) Transfer without change in registration. The owner may transfer the bond without a change of registration to another account in the name of the owner.
Transfer without change in registration.
The owner may transfer the bond without a change of registration to another account in the name of the owner.
(3) Remove the beneficiary from the registration. The owner may remove the beneficiary's name from the registration with the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be changed to the single owner form of registration. Once the transaction is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.
Remove the beneficiary from the registration.
The owner may remove the beneficiary's name from the registration with the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be changed to the single owner form of registration. Once the transaction is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.
(4) Transfer to the beneficiary or a third party with a change in registration. The owner may remove his or her name from the registration and transfer the bond to the account of the beneficiary or a third party, with the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be transferred in the single owner form of registration. Once the transfer is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.
Transfer to the beneficiary or a third party with a change in registration.
The owner may remove his or her name from the registration and transfer the bond to the account of the beneficiary or a third party, with the consent of the beneficiary. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be transferred in the single owner form of registration. Once the transfer is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.
(d) Savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration. The converting coowner of a converted bond registered in the coowner form of registration may make the following transactions:
Savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration.
The converting coowner of a converted bond registered in the coowner form of registration may make the following transactions:
(1) Provide view or transact rights to non-converting coowner. The converting coowner may provide the non-converting coowner with the rights to view the bond or to view and redeem the bond through the non-converting coowner's TreasuryDirect account. Once either of these rights is provided to the non-converting coowner, the converting coowner may not revoke the right.
Provide view or transact rights to non-converting coowner.
The converting coowner may provide the non-converting coowner with the rights to view the bond or to view and redeem the bond through the non-converting coowner's TreasuryDirect account. Once either of these rights is provided to the non-converting coowner, the converting coowner may not revoke the right.
(2) Transfer without change in registration. The converting coowner may transfer the bond without a change in registration to another account in the name of the converting coowner. The bond may be transferred without the consent of the non-converting coowner, and will retain the coowner registration.
Transfer without change in registration.
The converting coowner may transfer the bond without a change in registration to another account in the name of the converting coowner. The bond may be transferred without the consent of the non-converting coowner, and will retain the coowner registration.
(3) Remove a coowner from the registration. The converting coowner (or the non-converting coowner, if the bond has been previously transferred to the account of the non-converting coowner) may remove the other coowner from the registration. The consent of the other coowner is required. The bond must reside in the account of the coowner who is requesting the transaction. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond's registration will be changed to the single owner form of registration. Once this transaction is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.
Remove a coowner from the registration.
The converting coowner (or the non-converting coowner, if the bond has been previously transferred to the account of the non-converting coowner) may remove the other coowner from the registration. The consent of the other coowner is required. The bond must reside in the account of the coowner who is requesting the transaction. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond's registration will be changed to the single owner form of registration. Once this transaction is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.
(4) Transfer to non-converting coowner or a third party with a change in registration. The converting coowner may remove his or her name from the registration and transfer the bond to either the account of the non-converting coowner or to the account of a third party. The consent of the non-converting coowner is required. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be transferred in the single owner form of registration. Once the transfer is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.
Transfer to non-converting coowner or a third party with a change in registration.
The converting coowner may remove his or her name from the registration and transfer the bond to either the account of the non-converting coowner or to the account of a third party. The consent of the non-converting coowner is required. The transaction will not be conducted through the registered owner's TreasuryDirect account. The bond will be transferred in the single owner form of registration. Once the transfer is completed, the bond will be treated as a bond originally issued as a book-entry bond in TreasuryDirect, and will be subject to subpart C of this part. The owner may then perform any transaction available for book-entry bonds purchased in the TreasuryDirect system.
[[70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.170   What transactions can I conduct in a savings bond that I converted on which I am not registered as the owner, either coowner, or owner with beneficiary?

The only transaction that you may conduct on a savings bond that you converted on which you are not registered as the owner, either coowner, or owner with beneficiary is to deliver the converted bond to the TreasuryDirect ® account of the registered owner.

§ 363.171   How do I redeem a converted savings bond?

(a) Before final maturity—(1) Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner, owner with beneficiary, or entity form of registration. You may redeem your converted savings bond of any series registered either in the single owner, owner with beneficiary, or entity form of registration any time prior to final maturity after the minimum holding period through your TreasuryDirect ® account.
Before final maturity
—(1)
Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner, owner with beneficiary, or entity form of registration.
You may redeem your converted savings bond of any series registered either in the single owner, owner with beneficiary, or entity form of registration any time prior to final maturity after the minimum holding period through your TreasuryDirect ® account.
(2) Savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration. The converting coowner may redeem the converted savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration at any time prior to final maturity after the minimum holding period through his or her TreasuryDirect account. The non-converting coowner may redeem the converted savings bond at any time prior to final maturity after the minimum holding period provided that he or she has been granted transaction rights in the converted bond by the converting coowner.
Savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration.
The converting coowner may redeem the converted savings bond of any series registered in the coowner form of registration at any time prior to final maturity after the minimum holding period through his or her TreasuryDirect account. The non-converting coowner may redeem the converted savings bond at any time prior to final maturity after the minimum holding period provided that he or she has been granted transaction rights in the converted bond by the converting coowner.
(b) Upon final maturity—(1) Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner, owner with beneficiary, coowner, or entity forms of registration. If you have not previously redeemed or transferred your converted savings bond of any series registered in the single owner, owner with beneficiary, coowner, or entity forms of registration, it will be automatically redeemed for you at final maturity.
Upon final maturity
—(1)
Savings bond of any series registered in the single owner, owner with beneficiary, coowner, or entity forms of registration.
If you have not previously redeemed or transferred your converted savings bond of any series registered in the single owner, owner with beneficiary, coowner, or entity forms of registration, it will be automatically redeemed for you at final maturity.
(2) The redemption proceeds will be automatically used to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness registered in your name and held in your TreasuryDirect account.
[[70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19420, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§§ 363.172-363.175   [Reserved]


§ 363.176   May a converted savings bond be pledged or used as collateral?

A converted savings bond may not be pledged or used as collateral for the performance of an obligation.

§§ 363.177-363.178   [Reserved]


§ 363.179   Does Fiscal Service make any reservations as to the conversion of an eligible savings bond?

We may reject any application for conversion or refuse to convert a savings bond in any case or class of cases, if we deem the action to be in the public interest. Our action in any such respect is final.

§§ 363.180-363.199   [Reserved]


Subpart F—Marketable Treasury Securities

[Source:70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

§ 363.200   What Treasury securities does this subpart govern?

This subpart provides the rules for holding marketable Treasury bills, notes, and bonds in book-entry form in TreasuryDirect ®.

§ 363.201   What other regulations govern book-entry marketable book-entry Treasury bills, notes, and bonds?

(a) 31 CFR part 356 governs the sale and issue of marketable book-entry Treasury securities on or after March 1, 1993, whether held in TreasuryDirect ®, Legacy Treasury Direct, or the commercial book-entry system.
(b) 31 CFR part 357 governs holding marketable book-entry Treasury bills, notes, and bonds in the Legacy Treasury Direct system and in the commercial book-entry system.

§ 363.202   What marketable Treasury securities may I purchase and hold through my TreasuryDirect ® account?

(a) Purchase. (1) Advance purchase. You may purchase any marketable Treasury security that is available for purchase through the TreasuryDirect ® website. One day each week, marketable securities that are scheduled for auction within 8 weeks will be made available on the TreasuryDirect website for scheduling an advance purchase, and are the only marketable securities that you can schedule for advance purchase.
Purchase.
(1)
Advance purchase.
You may purchase any marketable Treasury security that is available for purchase through the TreasuryDirect ® website. One day each week, marketable securities that are scheduled for auction within 8 weeks will be made available on the TreasuryDirect website for scheduling an advance purchase, and are the only marketable securities that you can schedule for advance purchase.
(2) Purchases scheduled prior to May 15, 2010, with an effective issue date on or after May 15, 2010. (i) Any marketable security purchase scheduled prior to May 15, 2010, and with an effective issue date of May 15, 2010, through July 9, 2010, will be treated as a new purchase, even if the transaction would have been treated as a reinvestment under the rules in effect prior to May 15, 2010.
Purchases scheduled prior to May 15, 2010, with an effective issue date on or after May 15, 2010.
(i) Any marketable security purchase scheduled prior to May 15, 2010, and with an effective issue date of May 15, 2010, through July 9, 2010, will be treated as a new purchase, even if the transaction would have been treated as a reinvestment under the rules in effect prior to May 15, 2010.
(ii) Any marketable security purchase scheduled prior to May 15, 2010, with an effective issue date after July 9, 2010, will be canceled.
(b) Hold. You may transfer into the system and maintain in your TreasuryDirect account any eligible marketable book-entry Treasury bill, note, or bond.
Hold.
You may transfer into the system and maintain in your TreasuryDirect account any eligible marketable book-entry Treasury bill, note, or bond.
[[70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 26090, May 11, 2010]]

§ 363.203   After I purchase my marketable Treasury security in TreasuryDirect ®, is there a period of time during which I may not transfer the security?

Once you purchase a marketable Treasury security in TreasuryDirect, you may not transfer that security for a period of 45 calendar days after the issue date of the security, or the term of the security, whichever is less.

§ 363.204   What registrations are available for my marketable Treasury securities held in TreasuryDirect ®?

You may register your marketable Treasury securities in any form of registration permitted by § 363.20 of this part.

§ 363.205   How do I reinvest the proceeds of a maturing security held in TreasuryDirect ®?

(a) Method for reinvesting a maturing security. The only method of reinvesting a maturing marketable security in TreasuryDirect ® is through the automatic reinvestment option available in your TreasuryDirect account. Purchasing a security by directing that the proceeds of a maturing security be used to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, and then scheduling the purchase of a new security using the redemption proceeds of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, is not a reinvestment.
Method for reinvesting a maturing security.
The only method of reinvesting a maturing marketable security in TreasuryDirect ® is through the automatic reinvestment option available in your TreasuryDirect account. Purchasing a security by directing that the proceeds of a maturing security be used to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, and then scheduling the purchase of a new security using the redemption proceeds of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, is not a reinvestment.
(b) When a reinvestment can be scheduled, edited, or canceled. You can schedule your reinvestment either at the time of purchase or after the security is issued into your TreasuryDirect account. You cannot schedule, edit, or cancel a reinvestment when the maturing security goes into a closed book period, or when a noncompetitive bid for the replacement security is no longer accepted, whichever comes first.
When a reinvestment can be scheduled, edited, or canceled.
You can schedule your reinvestment either at the time of purchase or after the security is issued into your TreasuryDirect account. You cannot schedule, edit, or cancel a reinvestment when the maturing security goes into a closed book period, or when a noncompetitive bid for the replacement security is no longer accepted, whichever comes first.
(c) What securities can be reinvested. Any marketable security can be reinvested.
What securities can be reinvested.
Any marketable security can be reinvested.
(d) Limits on scheduling reinvestments. Reinvestments will be limited at any one time to 25 times for a 4-week bill, 7 times for a 13-week bill, 3 times for a 26-week bill, and once for all other marketable security types.
Limits on scheduling reinvestments.
Reinvestments will be limited at any one time to 25 times for a 4-week bill, 7 times for a 13-week bill, 3 times for a 26-week bill, and once for all other marketable security types.
(e) Canceling reinvestments. If there is no security available for reinvestment with an issue date that coincides with the maturity date or call date, if invoked, of the maturing security, and with the same type and term, the scheduled reinvestment will be canceled and the proceeds of the maturing security will be returned to the customer.
Canceling reinvestments.
If there is no security available for reinvestment with an issue date that coincides with the maturity date or call date, if invoked, of the maturing security, and with the same type and term, the scheduled reinvestment will be canceled and the proceeds of the maturing security will be returned to the customer.
(f) Procedure if there are insufficient funds from the maturing security to pay the full purchase price of the replacement security. If there are insufficient funds from the maturing security to pay the full purchase price of the replacement security, we will either debit your primary account at a financial institution or pay the additional funds using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.
Procedure if there are insufficient funds from the maturing security to pay the full purchase price of the replacement security.
If there are insufficient funds from the maturing security to pay the full purchase price of the replacement security, we will either debit your primary account at a financial institution or pay the additional funds using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.
(1) Debit from primary account at financial institution. If the maturing security is purchased on or after May 15, 2010, we will pay the additional funds by a debit from your primary account at a financial institution if the maturing security was purchased within TreasuryDirect by a debit from a financial institution account or if the maturing security was received through a transfer. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from your primary account at a financial institution, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.
Debit from primary account at financial institution.
If the maturing security is purchased on or after May 15, 2010, we will pay the additional funds by a debit from your primary account at a financial institution if the maturing security was purchased within TreasuryDirect by a debit from a financial institution account or if the maturing security was received through a transfer. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from your primary account at a financial institution, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.
(2) Withdrawal of funds from zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. If the maturing security is purchased on or after May 15, 2010, we will pay the additional funds using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness if the purchase of the maturing security was made using the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. If the amount available from a redemption of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is insufficient to pay the additional amount, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.
Withdrawal of funds from zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.
If the maturing security is purchased on or after May 15, 2010, we will pay the additional funds using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness if the purchase of the maturing security was made using the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. If the amount available from a redemption of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is insufficient to pay the additional amount, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.
(3) Special rules if the maturing security was purchased prior to May 15, 2010. If the maturing security was purchased within TreasuryDirect or received through a transfer prior to May 15, 2010, we will debit your primary account at a financial institution for the additional funds. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from your primary account at a financial institution, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.
Special rules if the maturing security was purchased prior to May 15, 2010.
If the maturing security was purchased within TreasuryDirect or received through a transfer prior to May 15, 2010, we will debit your primary account at a financial institution for the additional funds. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from your primary account at a financial institution, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.
[[75 FR 26090, May 11, 2010]]

§ 363.206   How can I transfer my marketable Treasury security into my TreasuryDirect ® account from another book-entry system?

(a) Legacy Treasury Direct to TreasuryDirect. 31 CFR part 357, subpart C, governs the transfer of a marketable book-entry Treasury security from your Legacy Treasury Direct account into TreasuryDirect.
Legacy Treasury Direct to TreasuryDirect.
31 CFR part 357, subpart C, governs the transfer of a marketable book-entry Treasury security from your Legacy Treasury Direct account into TreasuryDirect.
(b) Commercial book-entry system to TreasuryDirect. You may transfer your marketable Treasury security from the commercial book-entry system by contacting the financial institution or broker that handles your commercial book-entry account.
Commercial book-entry system to TreasuryDirect.
You may transfer your marketable Treasury security from the commercial book-entry system by contacting the financial institution or broker that handles your commercial book-entry account.
(c)(1) Individuals. When a security is transferred into the TreasuryDirect account of an individual, it will be transferred in the name of the individual account owner in the single owner form of registration, regardless of the form of registration prior to the transfer. After the transfer is completed, you can change the registration to any form of registration permitted by these regulations.
Individuals.
When a security is transferred into the TreasuryDirect account of an individual, it will be transferred in the name of the individual account owner in the single owner form of registration, regardless of the form of registration prior to the transfer. After the transfer is completed, you can change the registration to any form of registration permitted by these regulations.
(2) Entities. When a security is transferred into the TreasuryDirect account of an entity, the security will be transferred in the name of the entity, regardless of the form of registration prior to the transfer.
Entities.
When a security is transferred into the TreasuryDirect account of an entity, the security will be transferred in the name of the entity, regardless of the form of registration prior to the transfer.
(d) Amounts transferred. You can only transfer in increments of $1000.
Amounts transferred.
You can only transfer in increments of $1000.
[[70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 19421, Apr. 29, 2009]]

§ 363.207   Can I transfer my marketable Treasury security from my TreasuryDirect ® account to another TreasuryDirect account?

After the initial 45-calendar day holding period for your marketable Treasury security (see § 363.203) you can transfer your security to another TreasuryDirect account in increments of $1000.

§ 363.208   Can I transfer my marketable Treasury security from my TreasuryDirect ® account to an account in another book-entry system?

After the initial 45-calendar day holding period for your marketable Treasury security (see § 363.203) you can transfer your security to an account in the commercial book-entry system in increments of $1000.
[[70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 76 FR 18064, Apr. 1, 2011]]

§ 363.209   [Reserved]


§ 363.210   Is there any period of time during which I will be unable to process certain transactions regarding my security?

A closed book period will be in effect for four business days prior to the date a marketable security interest and/or redemption payment is made. During the closed book period, you cannot change the registration of the security, change the payment destination of the proceeds, change the view or transaction rights, make transfers, or schedule, edit, or cancel a reinvestment. We will hold transactions requiring submission of a form for processing until the closed book period ends.
[[75 FR 26091, May 11, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 78901, Dec. 17, 2010]]

§§ 363.211-363.249   [Reserved]


Subpart G [Reserved]


Subpart H—Miscellaneous


§ 363.250   May Fiscal Service waive these regulations?

We may waive or modify any provision of the regulations in this part. We may do so in any particular case or class of cases for the convenience of the United States or in order to relieve any person or persons of unnecessary hardship:
(a) If the waiver would not be inconsistent with law or equity;
(b) If the waiver does not impair any material existing rights; and
(c) If we are satisfied that the waiver would not subject the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002. Redesignated at 70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005. Redesignated at 70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.251   Can I be required to provide additional evidence to support a transaction?

We may require additional evidence and/or a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, in any case where we determine it necessary to protect the interests of the United States.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002. Redesignated at 70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005. Redesignated at 70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005]]

§ 363.252   May Fiscal Service amend or supplement these regulations?

We may amend, revise, or supplement these regulations at any time.
[[67 FR 64286, Oct. 17, 2002. Redesignated at 70 FR 14943, Mar. 23, 2005. Redesignated at 70 FR 57444, Sept. 30, 2005]]

PART 370—ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS RELATING TO UNITED STATES SECURITIES

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. chapter 31.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. chapter 31.
[Source:64 FR 40487, July 26, 1999, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
64 FR 40487, July 26, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 370.0   What does this part cover?

(a) Scope. This part applies to the transfer of funds by the Automated Clearing House method as used by us in connection with United States securities. This part also provides regulations for the electronic submission of transaction requests through us, except as varied by agreement or as otherwise provided. This part does not apply to transactions for the sale of United States Savings Bonds accomplished through savings bond issuing agents generally, except and to the extent we direct otherwise.
Scope.
This part applies to the transfer of funds by the Automated Clearing House method as used by us in connection with United States securities. This part also provides regulations for the electronic submission of transaction requests through us, except as varied by agreement or as otherwise provided. This part does not apply to transactions for the sale of United States Savings Bonds accomplished through savings bond issuing agents generally, except and to the extent we direct otherwise.
(b) Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association and Regulations of the Financial Management Service. The Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association generally apply to these transactions. However, the Operating Rules do not apply to the extent that the Operating Rules are preempted entirely and excluded specifically by application of Financial Management Service regulations in part 210 of this chapter. In the event of any inconsistencies between this part 370 and either the Operating Rules or part 210, this part 370 applies.
Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association and Regulations of the Financial Management Service.
The Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association generally apply to these transactions. However, the Operating Rules do not apply to the extent that the Operating Rules are preempted entirely and excluded specifically by application of Financial Management Service regulations in part 210 of this chapter. In the event of any inconsistencies between this part 370 and either the Operating Rules or part 210, this part 370 applies.
(c) Regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. To the extent that Regulation E (12 CFR part 205) and Regulation Z (12 CFR part 226) of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System apply to transactions authorized by this part, those Federal laws are unaffected by this part 370.
Regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve.
To the extent that Regulation E (12 CFR part 205) and Regulation Z (12 CFR part 226) of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System apply to transactions authorized by this part, those Federal laws are unaffected by this part 370.
(d) Variance by agreement. The terms of this part may be varied by agreement.
Variance by agreement.
The terms of this part may be varied by agreement.

§ 370.1   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

Automated Clearing House (ACH) entry means a transaction in accordance with the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, as modified by these regulations and other law. The regulations in this part control in the event of any inconsistencies with the applicable Operating Rules.
Automated Clearing House (ACH) entry
means a transaction in accordance with the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, as modified by these regulations and other law. The regulations in this part control in the event of any inconsistencies with the applicable Operating Rules.
Credit entry means an ACH entry for the payment of money to a deposit account.
Credit entry
means an ACH entry for the payment of money to a deposit account.
Debit entry means an ACH entry for the collection of money from a deposit account.
Debit entry
means an ACH entry for the collection of money from a deposit account.
Deposit account means a demand deposit (checking), savings, or asset account (other than an occasional or incidental credit balance in a credit plan) held directly or indirectly by a financial institution.
Deposit account
means a demand deposit (checking), savings, or asset account (other than an occasional or incidental credit balance in a credit plan) held directly or indirectly by a financial institution.
Digital signature means a type of electronic signature. A signer creates a digital signature by using public-key encryption to transform a message digest of an electronic message. If a recipient of the digital signature has an electronic message, message digest function, and the signer's public key, the recipient can verify:
Digital signature
means a type of electronic signature. A signer creates a digital signature by using public-key encryption to transform a message digest of an electronic message. If a recipient of the digital signature has an electronic message, message digest function, and the signer's public key, the recipient can verify:
(1) Whether the transformation was accomplished with the private key that corresponds to the signer's public key; and
(2) Whether the electronic message has been altered since the transformation was made.
Electronic message means information that is stored in an electronic medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
Electronic message
means information that is stored in an electronic medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
Electronic signature means a signature of an electronic message that:
Electronic signature
means a signature of an electronic message that:
(1) Identifies and authenticates a particular person as the source of the electronic message; and
(2) Indicates such person's approval of the information contained in the electronic message.
Financial institution means:
Financial institution
means:
(1) Any insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank that is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(2) Any mutual savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank that is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(3) Any savings bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) or any bank that is eligible to make application to become an insured bank under section 5 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1815);
(4) Any insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752) or any credit union that is eligible to make application to become an insured credit union pursuant to section 201 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1781);
(5) Any savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) that is an insured depository institution as defined in that act or is eligible to apply to become an insured depository institution under that act; and
(6) Any Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank as defined in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101).
Investor account is our record of your TreasuryDirect holdings, including a list of your total security holdings, the exact form of registration of your account, your mailing address, your TreasuryDirect account number, your social security account number or employer identification number, and your deposit account instructions.
Investor account
is our record of your
TreasuryDirect
holdings, including a list of your total security holdings, the exact form of registration of your account, your mailing address, your
TreasuryDirect
account number, your social security account number or employer identification number, and your deposit account instructions.
Message digest function means an algorithm that transforms an electronic message into a seemingly unintelligible, generally smaller, result called the message digest. A message digest function has these qualities:
Message digest function
means an algorithm that transforms an electronic message into a seemingly unintelligible, generally smaller, result called the message digest. A message digest function has these qualities:
(1) The same electronic message yields the same message digest every time the algorithm is executed;
(2) It is computationally infeasible that an electronic message can be derived from the message digest result produced by the algorithm; and
(3) it is computationally infeasible that two electronic messages can be found that produce the same message digest using the algorithm.
Payment means, for the purpose of this part, funds paid by us to you.
Payment
means, for the purpose of this part, funds paid by us to you.
Person means any natural person or organization.
Person
means any natural person or organization.
Public-key encryption means a cryptographic process which generates and employs a key pair, consisting of a public key and a different but mathematically related private key. One use of the public key is to verify a digital signature created by the private key.
Public-key encryption
means a cryptographic process which generates and employs a key pair, consisting of a public key and a different but mathematically related private key. One use of the public key is to verify a digital signature created by the private key.
Security means an obligation offered by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Security
means an obligation offered by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Settlement date means the date an exchange of funds with respect to an ACH entry is reflected on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank(s).
Settlement date
means the date an exchange of funds with respect to an ACH entry is reflected on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank(s).
Signature means any symbol or method executed or adopted by a person with present intention to be bound.
Signature
means any symbol or method executed or adopted by a person with present intention to be bound.
We (or “us”) refers to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates. The term does not extend to United States Savings Bond issuing and paying agents.
We (or “us”)
refers to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates. The term does not extend to United States Savings Bond issuing and paying agents.
You means a deposit account owner, in subparts B and C, unless stated otherwise. The word “you” means a person who electronically submits transaction requests through us, in subpart D.
You
means a deposit account owner, in subparts B and C, unless stated otherwise. The word “you” means a person who electronically submits transaction requests through us, in subpart D.

Subpart B—Credit ACH Entries


§ 370.5   How can I appoint a financial institution to receive payments on my behalf?

You must name a financial institution to receive payments through credit entries using the ACH method. You also must identify the deposit account to which payments are to be made. To do this, you must use a form approved by us.

§ 370.6   What requirements apply to a financial institution that handles a credit entry?

A financial institution that accepts and handles a credit entry initiated by us agrees to the provisions of this subpart, and warrants that it will comply with all requirements imposed upon Receiving Depository Financial Institutions under the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, as modified by these regulations and other law.

§ 370.7   How can my financial institution change my designated deposit account?

If your financial institution requests us to make a change in your deposit account number or type of your account, we will change the information without requiring any confirmation from you. The request from the financial institution must be made following the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association. The financial institution's request will be deemed an agreement by the institution to indemnify us and you for any loss resulting from the requested change.

§ 370.8   Are there any requirements related to a prenotification entry?

(a) Use of prenotification in our discretion. In our discretion, we may initiate a prenotification entry to a financial institution before we send a credit entry. We may also send a prenotification message whenever there is a change in the payment instructions. If we send a prenotification message, we will follow the time frames as established by the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association. A prenotification is a zero-dollar ACH entry that can help us determine whether there might be problems with sending a subsequent credit entry.
Use of prenotification in our discretion.
In our discretion, we may initiate a prenotification entry to a financial institution before we send a credit entry. We may also send a prenotification message whenever there is a change in the payment instructions. If we send a prenotification message, we will follow the time frames as established by the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association. A prenotification is a zero-dollar ACH entry that can help us determine whether there might be problems with sending a subsequent credit entry.
(b) Requirements placed upon financial institution that receives a prenotification. A financial institution must respond to a prenotification within the time frame for such responses as established by the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association. If the receiving financial institution does not respond to the prenotification message within the specified time period, we may interpret the nonresponsiveness as the financial institution's agreement to this subpart. Furthermore, a financial institution warrants by its nonresponsiveness that the deposit account number and the type of account contained in the prenotification entry message was accurate as of the moment the financial institution received it.
Requirements placed upon financial institution that receives a prenotification.
A financial institution must respond to a prenotification within the time frame for such responses as established by the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association. If the receiving financial institution does not respond to the prenotification message within the specified time period, we may interpret the nonresponsiveness as the financial institution's agreement to this subpart. Furthermore, a financial institution warrants by its nonresponsiveness that the deposit account number and the type of account contained in the prenotification entry message was accurate as of the moment the financial institution received it.

§ 370.9   How can my payment instructions be changed?

Your payment instructions will continue to apply until either you or your financial institution requests us to make a change.

§ 370.10   What can cause my payments to be suspended?

(a) Change in deposit account. We will suspend payments if we receive notice that your deposit account has been closed, that someone named on your deposit account is dead or has been declared legally incompetent, that there is a change in the title of your deposit account that alters your interests; or, if a corporation is the owner, that it has been dissolved.
Change in deposit account.
We will suspend payments if we receive notice that your deposit account has been closed, that someone named on your deposit account is dead or has been declared legally incompetent, that there is a change in the title of your deposit account that alters your interests; or, if a corporation is the owner, that it has been dissolved.
(b) Change in status of owner. We will suspend payments when we receive notice that an owner of a bond, security, or investor account is dead or has been declared legally incompetent, or in any case where we receive notice of a change in the name or status of an organization or representative named on a bond, security, or investor account.
Change in status of owner.
We will suspend payments when we receive notice that an owner of a bond, security, or investor account is dead or has been declared legally incompetent, or in any case where we receive notice of a change in the name or status of an organization or representative named on a bond, security, or investor account.
(c) Continuation of suspension. Payments will continue to be suspended until we receive satisfactory evidence as to who is authorized or entitled to receive payments.
Continuation of suspension.
Payments will continue to be suspended until we receive satisfactory evidence as to who is authorized or entitled to receive payments.

§ 370.11   What must my financial institution do when it receives a payment?

An institution which receives a payment on behalf of its customer must:
(a) Upon receipt, make the payment available to you on the payment date. If a scheduled payment date is not a business day for the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in which the institution is located, payment will be made on the next-succeeding business day. If the institution is unable to make a credit entry to the designated account, it must return the payment in accordance with the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association.
(b) Promptly notify us when your account has been closed, or when it is on notice of the death or legal incapacity of you or any other individual named on your account, or when it is on notice of the dissolution of a corporation in whose name the deposit account is held. The institution must return all payments received along with an explanation for the return.

§ 370.12   What happens if an error is made in a credit entry, or if a duplicate credit entry is made?

If we make an erroneous credit entry under this part, we will make a corrected credit entry to your account. We will then take action to recover the erroneous credit entry, or any duplicate credit entry, as follows:
(a) Return of amount of erroneous or duplicate credit entry by financial institution. We will send a notice to the financial institution to which the erroneous or duplicate credit entry was sent. When it receives this notice, the financial institution must immediately return to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank an amount equal to the credit entry. If the institution is unable to do this, the institution must immediately notify us, and provide any information that it has about the matter. We reserve the right to request the return of a partial amount of an erroneous or duplicate credit entry.
Return of amount of erroneous or duplicate credit entry by financial institution.
We will send a notice to the financial institution to which the erroneous or duplicate credit entry was sent. When it receives this notice, the financial institution must immediately return to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank an amount equal to the credit entry. If the institution is unable to do this, the institution must immediately notify us, and provide any information that it has about the matter. We reserve the right to request the return of a partial amount of an erroneous or duplicate credit entry.
(b) Collection of amount of unreturned erroneous or duplicate credit entry. Where the erroneous or duplicate credit entry has not been returned, we will undertake any other actions that are appropriate. To the extent permitted by law, the collection action may include deducting the amount owed from future credit entries made to the deposit account to which the erroneous or duplicate credit entry was made.
Collection of amount of unreturned erroneous or duplicate credit entry.
Where the erroneous or duplicate credit entry has not been returned, we will undertake any other actions that are appropriate. To the extent permitted by law, the collection action may include deducting the amount owed from future credit entries made to the deposit account to which the erroneous or duplicate credit entry was made.
(c) Authorization of Debit to collect unreturned dulicate or erroneous credit entry. If a financial institution has not responded within 60 calendar days of the notice, its acceptance of the credit entry will be considered an authorization for a debit in the amount of the entry. The debit will be made from the account maintained or utilized by the financial institution at the Federal Reserve Bank to which the entry was made. An institution designated by a financial institution to receive payment on its behalf, in permitting the usage, is deemed to have authorized a debit. The debit will be made from its account maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank to which the entry was made. The institution to which the credit entry has been directed is deemed to have agreed to provide information and assistance to recover any erroneous or duplicate entry. You are also deemed to have agreed to provide information and assistance, and to take any action provided by law to recover an erroneous or duplicate credit entry.
Authorization of Debit to collect unreturned dulicate or erroneous credit entry.
If a financial institution has not responded within 60 calendar days of the notice, its acceptance of the credit entry will be considered an authorization for a debit in the amount of the entry. The debit will be made from the account maintained or utilized by the financial institution at the Federal Reserve Bank to which the entry was made. An institution designated by a financial institution to receive payment on its behalf, in permitting the usage, is deemed to have authorized a debit. The debit will be made from its account maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank to which the entry was made. The institution to which the credit entry has been directed is deemed to have agreed to provide information and assistance to recover any erroneous or duplicate entry. You are also deemed to have agreed to provide information and assistance, and to take any action provided by law to recover an erroneous or duplicate credit entry.

§ 370.13   Can time limits for taking an action on a credit entry be extended?

If we or your financial institution are delayed beyond applicable time limits in taking any action with respect to a credit entry because of circumstances beyond our control, then the time for taking that action will be extended as necessary until the cause of the delay ends.

§ 370.14   Can substitute payment procedures be used?

We may use substitute payment procedures, instead of ACH, if we consider it to be necessary. Any such action is final.

§ 370.15   What limitations exist on liability?

(a) We may rely on the information provided by you or anyone else authorized to provide information concerning your financial institution or deposit account to which payments are to be made. We do not need to verify this information. We are not liable for any action we may take in reliance on the information furnished.
(b) Our liability does not extend beyond the amount of the payment due.
(c) When you name a financial institution to receive payments on your behalf, you are appointing that institution as your agent for the receipt of payments. When a credit entry is made to your financial institution for deposit to your account following your instructions, we no longer have any further responsibility for that payment. Where your financial institution has arranged with the Federal Reserve Bank to have payments made through another financial institution, the crediting of your payment to that institution relieves us of any further responsibility for that payment.

Subpart C—Debit Entries


§ 370.20   What requirements apply if I want to authorize a debit entry to my deposit account?

(a) General. You may pay for a security and related fees by authorizing us to initiate one or more debit entries to your deposit account. For a purchase of a book-entry security to be held in an investor account maintained by us, you must be named on the investor account. The authorization must be accomplished only through forms or means approved by us.
General.
You may pay for a security and related fees by authorizing us to initiate one or more debit entries to your deposit account. For a purchase of a book-entry security to be held in an investor account maintained by us, you must be named on the investor account. The authorization must be accomplished only through forms or means approved by us.
(b) Single-entry and recurring debit entries. You only may authorize single-entry debits for purchases of book-entry securities held in TreasuryDirect. You only may authorize recurring debit entries for purchases of definitive savings bonds.
Single-entry and recurring debit entries.
You only may authorize single-entry debits for purchases of book-entry securities held in
TreasuryDirect.
You only may authorize recurring debit entries for purchases of definitive savings bonds.
(c) Credit entries to be made to same deposit account. To the extent that payments by us with respect to a security are to be made through credit entries, you must receive debit and credit entries in the same deposit account.
Credit entries to be made to same deposit account.
To the extent that payments by us with respect to a security are to be made through credit entries, you must receive debit and credit entries in the same deposit account.
(d) Signature. The authorization must have your signature and that of any other person whose signature is required to withdraw funds from the deposit account. We need not verify your identity or the authenticity of your signature.
Signature.
The authorization must have your signature and that of any other person whose signature is required to withdraw funds from the deposit account. We need not verify your identity or the authenticity of your signature.

§ 370.21   Are there any requirements related to a prenotification entry?

(a) Use of prenotification in our discretion. In our discretion, we may initiate a prenotification entry to a financial institution prior to sending a debit entry. A prenotification is a zero-dollar ACH entry that can help us determine whether there might be problems with sending a subsequent debit entry.
Use of prenotification in our discretion.
In our discretion, we may initiate a prenotification entry to a financial institution prior to sending a debit entry. A prenotification is a zero-dollar ACH entry that can help us determine whether there might be problems with sending a subsequent debit entry.
(b) Requirements placed upon financial institution that receives a prenotification. If sent, a financial institution must respond to a prenotification within the time frame for such responses as established by the National Automated Clearing House Association. If the receiving financial institution does not respond to the prenotification message within the specified time period, we may interpret the nonresponsiveness as the financial institution's agreement to this subpart. Furthermore, a financial institution warrants by its nonresponsiveness that the deposit account number and the type of account contained in the prenotification entry message was accurate as of the moment the financial institution received it.
Requirements placed upon financial institution that receives a prenotification.
If sent, a financial institution must respond to a prenotification within the time frame for such responses as established by the National Automated Clearing House Association. If the receiving financial institution does not respond to the prenotification message within the specified time period, we may interpret the nonresponsiveness as the financial institution's agreement to this subpart. Furthermore, a financial institution warrants by its nonresponsiveness that the deposit account number and the type of account contained in the prenotification entry message was accurate as of the moment the financial institution received it.

§ 370.22   What requirements apply to a financial institution that debits a deposit account?

A financial institution that debits a deposit account upon receiving a debit initiated by us agrees to the provisions of this subpart. A financial institution that does so also warrants that it has the authority to receive debit entries.

§ 370.23   What other requirements apply to a financial institution?

The financial institution warrants that it will comply with all requirements imposed upon Receiving Depository Financial Institutions under the Operating Rules of the National Automated Clearing House Association, as modified by these regulations and other law.

§ 370.24   What right does the Bureau of the Fiscal Service have to terminate or suspend debit entries?

We may terminate or suspend the availability of one or more debit entries in any case or class of cases, and may do so without notice at any time. A decision to terminate or suspend the availability of debit entries is in our sole discretion and is final.

§ 370.25   What rights do I have to terminate or suspend debit entries?

(a) General. If you are an investor account owner or deposit account owner, you generally may terminate or suspend one or more debit entries by notifying us orally or in writing at least three business days before the scheduled date of a transfer. In response to an oral notice, we may require you to give written notice, to be received by us within fourteen days of an oral notice. An oral notice ceases to be binding after fourteen days if you fail to provide the required written confirmation. A suspension will remain in effect for the duration you specify, but for no more than six months. The termination and suspension methods need not be recited in the authorization. These termination or suspension rights are in addition to those that you may have through your financial institution under Regulation E of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR part 205).
General.
If you are an investor account owner or deposit account owner, you generally may terminate or suspend one or more debit entries by notifying us orally or in writing at least three business days before the scheduled date of a transfer. In response to an oral notice, we may require you to give written notice, to be received by us within fourteen days of an oral notice. An oral notice ceases to be binding after fourteen days if you fail to provide the required written confirmation. A suspension will remain in effect for the duration you specify, but for no more than six months. The termination and suspension methods need not be recited in the authorization. These termination or suspension rights are in addition to those that you may have through your financial institution under Regulation E of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR part 205).
(b) Exception. If you submit a debit entry authorization in conjunction with a Treasury auction tender for the purchase of a book-entry security, you cannot terminate or suspend a debit entry after the auction closes.
Exception.
If you submit a debit entry authorization in conjunction with a Treasury auction tender for the purchase of a book-entry security, you cannot terminate or suspend a debit entry after the auction closes.

§ 370.26   What limitations exist on liability?

If we sustain a loss because a financial institution fails to handle an entry in accordance with this part, the financial institution is liable to us for the loss, but not beyond the amount of the debit entry. In no instance does our liability extend beyond the amount of the debit entry.

Subpart D—Electronic Submission of Transaction Requests Through the Bureau of the Fiscal Service


§ 370.35   Does the Bureau of the Fiscal Service accept all electronically signed transaction requests?

An electronic signature will not be accepted if it has not been accomplished through a method that has been approved for specific purposes by us.

§ 370.36   When does a transaction request become effective?

Except for auction bids of U.S. securities or unless otherwise agreed, a transaction request becomes effective at the moment we send a confirmation message. In no instance does a transaction request become effective before we actually receive the request.

§ 370.37   Where is the point of transaction for an electronically submitted transaction request?

For jurisdiction and venue purposes, the point of transaction for a transaction request handled pursuant to this subpart is Parkersburg, West Virginia, regardless of from where the transaction request is transmitted or where the transaction request is actually processed.

§ 370.38   What is the legal effect of an electronic signature?

An electronic signature and any electronic message to which it is affixed or attached may not be denied legal effect, including legal effect as a signature, a writing, or an original, solely because the signature or record is in electronic form.

§ 370.39   To what extent is a digital signature admissible in any civil litigation or dispute?

In asserting a digital signature against you in any civil litigation or dispute, extrinsic evidence of authenticity as a condition precedent of admissibility (such as testimony about the scientific validity of digital signatures) is not necessary to establish:
(a) That a digital signature corresponds to a specific public key pair, and;
(b) That an electronic message to which the digital signature is affixed has not been altered from its original form.

§ 370.40   Can I be held accountable if my negligence contributes to a forged signature?

(a) General. If your failure to exercise ordinary care substantially contributes to the submission of a forged signature, then you cannot claim that the signature is a forgery. However, we cannot invoke this section against you if we cannot first establish that we were reasonable in relying upon the signature. If we can do so, you bear the burden of production and the burden of persuasion in establishing your exercise of ordinary care. If you cannot do so, then you cannot claim that the signature is a forgery.
General.
If your failure to exercise ordinary care substantially contributes to the submission of a forged signature, then you cannot claim that the signature is a forgery. However, we cannot invoke this section against you if we cannot first establish that we were reasonable in relying upon the signature. If we can do so, you bear the burden of production and the burden of persuasion in establishing your exercise of ordinary care. If you cannot do so, then you cannot claim that the signature is a forgery.
(b) Exception. This section has no application in any dispute involving a debit authorization or credit card transaction.
Exception.
This section has no application in any dispute involving a debit authorization or credit card transaction.

§ 370.41   What limitations exist on liability?

In no instance does our liability extend beyond the amount of the transaction.

Subpart E—Additional Provisions


§ 370.45   What is the status of a security if the remittance cannot be collected?

If we cannot promptly collect all of the remittance for a security, we may in our discretion cancel the security unless it has been legally transferred for value to a third person who had no knowledge of the improper debit entry at the time of the transfer.

§ 370.46   Are there any situations in which the Bureau of the Fiscal Service may waive these regulations?

We reserve the right, in our discretion, to waive any provision of these regulations in any case or class of cases. We may do so if such action is not inconsistent with law and will not subject the United States to substantial expense or liability.

§ 370.47   To what extent may the Bureau of the Fiscal Service change these regulations?

Any aspect of this part may be changed at any time and without notice. You assume the risk that a change may terminate a provision that was to your advantage. Nothing in this part creates vested rights in your favor.

PART 375—MARKETABLE TREASURY SECURITIES REDEMPTION OPERATIONS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3111; 12 U.S.C. 391.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3111; 12 U.S.C. 391.
[Source:65 FR 3116, Jan. 19, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 3116, Jan. 19, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 375.0   What authority does the Treasury have to redeem its securities?

Section 3111 of Title 31 of the United States Code authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to use money received from the sale of an obligation and other money in the general fund of the Treasury to buy, redeem, or refund, at or before maturity, outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, Treasury bills, or savings certificates of the United States Government. For the purposes of this part, we will refer to these outstanding obligations as “securities”.

§ 375.1   Where are the rules for the redemption operation located?

The provisions in this part and the redemption operation announcement govern the redemption of marketable Treasury securities under 31 U.S.C. 3111. (See § 375.10.)

§ 375.2   What special definitions apply to this rule?

The definitions in 31 CFR part 356 govern this part except as follows:
Accrued interest means an amount payable by the Treasury as part of the settlement amount for the interest income earned between the last interest payment date up to and including the settlement date.
Accrued interest
means an amount payable by the Treasury as part of the settlement amount for the interest income earned between the last interest payment date up to and including the settlement date.
Bank means the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Bank
means the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Customer means a person or entity on whose behalf a submitter has been directed to submit an offer of a specified amount of securities in a specific redemption operation.
Customer
means a person or entity on whose behalf a submitter has been directed to submit an offer of a specified amount of securities in a specific redemption operation.
Minimum offer amount means the smallest par amount of a security that may be offered to the Treasury. We will state the minimum offer amount in the redemption operation announcement.
Minimum offer amount
means the smallest par amount of a security that may be offered to the Treasury. We will state the minimum offer amount in the redemption operation announcement.
Multiple means the smallest additional par amount of a security that may be offered to the Treasury. We will state the multiple in the redemption operation announcement.
Multiple
means the smallest additional par amount of a security that may be offered to the Treasury. We will state the multiple in the redemption operation announcement.
Offer means an offer to deliver for redemption a stated par amount of a specific security to the Treasury at a stated price.
Offer
means an offer to deliver for redemption a stated par amount of a specific security to the Treasury at a stated price.
Price means the dollar amount to be paid for a security expressed as a percent of its current par amount.
Price
means the dollar amount to be paid for a security expressed as a percent of its current par amount.
Privately held amount means the total amount outstanding of a security less holdings of the Federal Reserve System and Federal Government accounts.
Privately held amount
means the total amount outstanding of a security less holdings of the Federal Reserve System and Federal Government accounts.
Redemption amount means the maximum par amount of securities that we are planning to redeem through a redemption operation. We will state the redemption amount in the redemption operation announcement.
Redemption amount
means the maximum par amount of securities that we are planning to redeem through a redemption operation. We will state the redemption amount in the redemption operation announcement.
Redemption operation means a competitive process by which the Treasury accepts offers of marketable Treasury securities that by their terms are not immediately payable.
Redemption operation
means a competitive process by which the Treasury accepts offers of marketable Treasury securities that by their terms are not immediately payable.
Security means an outstanding unmatured obligation of the United States Government that the Secretary is authorized to buy, redeem or refund under section 3111 of Title 31 of the United States Code.
Security
means an outstanding unmatured obligation of the United States Government that the Secretary is authorized to buy, redeem or refund under section 3111 of Title 31 of the United States Code.
Settlement means full and complete delivery of and payment for securities redeemed.
Settlement
means full and complete delivery of and payment for securities redeemed.
Settlement amount means the par amount of each security that we redeem, multiplied by the price we accept in a redemption operation, plus any accrued interest.
Settlement amount
means the par amount of each security that we redeem, multiplied by the price we accept in a redemption operation, plus any accrued interest.
Settlement date means the date specified in the redemption operation announcement on which you must deliver a security to the Treasury for payment.
Settlement date
means the date specified in the redemption operation announcement on which you must deliver a security to the Treasury for payment.
Submitter means an entity submitting offers directly to the Treasury for its own account, for the account of others, or both. (See § 375.11(a)).
Submitter
means an entity submitting offers directly to the Treasury for its own account, for the account of others, or both. (See § 375.11(a)).
Tender means a computer transmission or document submitted in a redemption operation that contains one or more offers.
Tender
means a computer transmission or document submitted in a redemption operation that contains one or more offers.
We (“us”) means the Secretary of the Treasury and his or her delegates, including the Treasury Department, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, and their representatives. The term also includes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting as fiscal agent of the United States.
We
(“us”) means the Secretary of the Treasury and his or her delegates, including the Treasury Department, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, and their representatives. The term also includes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting as fiscal agent of the United States.
You means a prospective submitter in a redemption operation.
You
means a prospective submitter in a redemption operation.

§ 375.3   What is the role of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in this process?

As fiscal agent of the United States, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York performs various activities necessary to conduct a redemption operation under this part. These activities may include but are not limited to:
(a) Accepting and reviewing tenders;
(b) Calculating redemption operation results;
(c) Issuing notices of redemptions;
(d) Accepting deliveries of Treasury securities at settlement; and
(e) Processing the Treasury payment for securities delivered at settlement.

Subpart B—Offering, Certifications, and Delivery


§ 375.10   What is the purpose of the redemption operation announcement?

We provide public notice that we are redeeming Treasury securities by issuing a redemption operation announcement. This announcement lists the details of each proposed redemption operation, including the maximum redemption amount, the range of maturities of eligible securities, descriptions of the securities that fall within that maturity range, and the redemption operation and settlement dates. The redemption operation announcement and this part specify the terms and conditions of a redemption operation. If anything in the redemption operation announcement differs from anything in this part, the redemption operation announcement will apply. Accordingly, you should read the applicable redemption operation announcement along with this part.

§ 375.11   Who may participate in a redemption operation?

(a) Submitters. To be a submitter, you must be an institution that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has approved to conduct open market transactions with the Bank.
Submitters.
To be a submitter, you must be an institution that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has approved to conduct open market transactions with the Bank.
(b) Others. A person or entity other than a submitter may participate only if it arranges to have an offer or offers submitted on its behalf by a submitter.
Others.
A person or entity other than a submitter may participate only if it arranges to have an offer or offers submitted on its behalf by a submitter.

§ 375.12   How do I submit an offer?

As a submitter, you must submit an offer in a tender to the Treasury via the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. You must submit any tenders in an approved format and the Bank must receive them prior to the closing time stated in the redemption operation announcement. If we do not receive your tenders timely, we will reject them. Your tenders are binding on you after the closing time specified in the redemption operation announcement. You are responsible for ensuring that we receive your tenders on time. We will not be responsible in any way for any unauthorized tender submissions or for any delays, errors, or omissions in submitting tenders.

§ 375.13   What requirements apply to offers?

(a) General. You may only submit competitive offers (specifying a price). All offers must state the security description, par amount, and price of each security offered. All offers must equal or exceed the minimum offer amount, and be in the multiple, stated in the redemption operation announcement.
General.
You may only submit competitive offers (specifying a price). All offers must state the security description, par amount, and price of each security offered. All offers must equal or exceed the minimum offer amount, and be in the multiple, stated in the redemption operation announcement.
(b) Price format. You must express offered prices in terms of price per $100 of par with three decimals, e.g., 102.172. The first two decimals represent fractional 32nds of a dollar. The third decimal represents eighths of a 32nd of a dollar, and must be a 0, 2, 4, or 6. For example, an offer of 102.172 means one hundred two and seventeen 32nds and two eighths of a 32nd, or in decimals, 102.5390625.
Price format.
You must express offered prices in terms of price per $100 of par with three decimals, e.g., 102.172. The first two decimals represent fractional 32nds of a dollar. The third decimal represents eighths of a 32nd of a dollar, and must be a 0, 2, 4, or 6. For example, an offer of 102.172 means one hundred two and seventeen 32nds and two eighths of a 32nd, or in decimals, 102.5390625.
(c) Maximum number of offers. There is no limit on the number of offers you may make for each eligible security. There is also no limit on the number of eligible securities you may offer.
Maximum number of offers.
There is no limit on the number of offers you may make for each eligible security. There is also no limit on the number of eligible securities you may offer.

§ 375.14   Do I have to make any certifications?

By submitting a tender offering a security or securities for sale, you certify that you are in compliance with this part and the redemption operation announcement.

§ 375.15   Who is responsible for delivering securities?

As a submitter, you are responsible for delivering any securities we accept in the redemption operation, including any securities for which you submitted offers on behalf of others. (See § 375.23.) All securities you deliver must be free and clear of all liens, charges, claims, and any other restrictions.

Subpart C—Determination of Redemption Operation Results; Settlement


§ 375.20   When will the Treasury decide on which offers to accept?

We will determine which offers or portions of offers to accept after the closing time for receipt of tenders. All such determinations will be final.

§ 375.21   When and how will the Treasury announce the redemption operation results?

We will make an official announcement of the redemption operation results through a press release. For each security we redeem, the press release will include such information as the amounts offered and accepted, the highest price accepted, and the remaining privately held amount outstanding.

§ 375.22   Will I receive confirmations and, if I am submitting offers for others, do I have to provide confirmations?

(a) Confirmations to submitters. We will provide a confirmation of acceptance or rejection in the form of a results message to submitters of offers by the close of the business day of the redemption operation.
Confirmations to submitters.
We will provide a confirmation of acceptance or rejection in the form of a results message to submitters of offers by the close of the business day of the redemption operation.
(b) Confirmation of customer offers. If you submit a successful offer for a customer, you are responsible for notifying that customer of the impending redemption.
Confirmation of customer offers.
If you submit a successful offer for a customer, you are responsible for notifying that customer of the impending redemption.

§ 375.23   How does the securities delivery process work?

If any of the offers you submitted are accepted, you must transfer the correct book-entry Treasury securities in the correct par amount against the correct settlement amount on the settlement date. You must deliver the securities to the account specified in the redemption operation announcement.

Subpart D—Miscellaneous Provisions


§ 375.30   Does the Treasury have any discretion in this process?

(a) We have the discretion to:
(1) Accept or reject any offers or tenders submitted in a redemption operation;
(2) Redeem less than the amount of securities specified in the redemption operation announcement;
(3) Add to, change, or waive any provision of this part; or
(4) Change the terms and conditions of a redemption operation.
(b) Our decisions under this part are final. We will provide a public notice if we change any redemption operation provision, term or condition.

§ 375.31   What could happen if someone does not fully comply with the redemption operation rules or fails to deliver securities?

(a) General. If a person or entity fails to comply with any of the redemption operation rules in this part, we will consider the circumstances and take what we deem to be appropriate action. This could include barring the person or entity from participating in future redemption operations under this part and future auctions under 31 CFR part 356. We also may refer the matter to an appropriate regulatory agency.
General.
If a person or entity fails to comply with any of the redemption operation rules in this part, we will consider the circumstances and take what we deem to be appropriate action. This could include barring the person or entity from participating in future redemption operations under this part and future auctions under 31 CFR part 356. We also may refer the matter to an appropriate regulatory agency.
(b) Liquidated damages. If you fail to deliver securities on time, we may require you to pay liquidated damages of up to 1% of your projected settlement amount.
Liquidated damages.
If you fail to deliver securities on time, we may require you to pay liquidated damages of up to 1% of your projected settlement amount.

PART 380—COLLATERAL ACCEPTABILITY AND VALUATION

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 90, 265-266, 332, 391, 1452(d), 1464(k), 1767, 1789a, 2013, 2122, 3101-3102; 26 U.S.C. 6302; 31 U.S.C. 321, 323, 3301-3304, 3336, 9301, 9303.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 90, 265-266, 332, 391, 1452(d), 1464(k), 1767, 1789a, 2013, 2122, 3101-3102; 26 U.S.C. 6302; 31 U.S.C. 321, 323, 3301-3304, 3336, 9301, 9303.
[Source:73 FR 75590, Dec. 12, 2008, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
73 FR 75590, Dec. 12, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Information


§ 380.0   What do these regulations govern?

The regulations in this part govern the types of acceptable collateral that you may pledge to secure deposits of public monies and other financial interests of the Federal Government, as well as the valuation of that collateral. Specifically, the regulations in this part apply to the programs governed by the Department of the Treasury's regulations at 31 CFR part 202 (Depositaries and Financial Agents of the Government), 31 CFR part 203 (Payment of Federal Taxes and the Treasury Tax and Loan Program), and 31 CFR part 225 (Acceptance of Bonds Secured by Government Obligations in Lieu of Bonds with Sureties). The regulations in this part apply only to the acceptability and valuation of collateral that may be pledged under these programs. 31 CFR parts 202, 203, and 225 continue to govern the respective programs themselves.

§ 380.1   What special definitions apply to this part?

Special definitions that may apply to this part are contained in 31 CFR parts 202, 203 and 225.

Subpart B—Acceptable Collateral and Its Valuation


§ 380.2   What collateral may I pledge if I am a depositary or a financial agent of the Government under 31 CFR part 202, and what value will you assign to it?

Unless we specify otherwise, we will list the types and valuation of acceptable collateral in Treasury procedural instructions. We will also post updated information and guidance on Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service website at fiscal.treasury.gov.
fiscal.treasury.gov
.
[[89 FR 3353, Jan. 18, 2024]]

§ 380.3   What collateral may I pledge if I am a Treasury Tax and Loan depositary under 31 CFR part 203, and what value will you assign to it?

Unless we specify otherwise, we will list the types and valuation of acceptable collateral in Treasury procedural instructions. We will also post updated information and guidance on Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service Web site at http://www.treasurydirect.gov.
http://www.treasurydirect.gov.

§ 380.4   What collateral may I pledge instead of a surety bond under 31 CFR part 225, and what value will you assign to it?

Unless we specify otherwise, we will list the types and valuation of acceptable collateral in Treasury procedural instructions. We will also post updated information and guidance on Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service website at fiscal.treasury.gov.
fiscal.treasury.gov
.
[[89 FR 3353, Jan. 18, 2024]]

PART 391—WAIVER OF INTEREST, ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS, AND PENALTIES

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3701; 31 U.S.C. 3711; 31 U.S.C. 3717.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3701; 31 U.S.C. 3711; 31 U.S.C. 3717.
[Source:50 FR 6344, Feb. 15, 1985, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
50 FR 6344, Feb. 15, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

§ 391.0   Scope of regulations.

These regulations apply to the waiver of late charges on claims due the Bureau of the Fiscal Service as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3717(h). They are consistent with the Federal Claims Collection Standards on interest, administrative costs, and penalties prescribed jointly by the General Accounting Office and the Department of Justice and set forth in 4 CFR 102.13. The term “claim” as used in this part refers to an amount of money or property that has been determined to be owed to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. The term “late charges” as used in this part includes interest, administrative costs, and penalties. When applying the following regulations, a distinction shall be drawn between an adjustment and a waiver. An adjustment is an account correction under any circumstances where the Bureau records a claim or accrues late charges to which it is not legally entitled. An adjustment may be made without the promulgation of regulations. A waiver applies whenever the Bureau accrues late charges it is entitled to assess and later relinquishes that right. Two examples of an adjustment are: (a) Where the underlying claim is without merit, and (b) where the debtor is not notified of the claim as required by 31 U.S.C. 3717. The latter includes being misinformed as to the amount of the charges or the time of their commencement.

§ 391.1   General.

(a) Waiver of late charges. Late charges may be waived:
Waiver of late charges.
Late charges may be waived:
(1) When the underlying claim is compromised in accordance with 4 CFR part 103;
(2) Where the underlying claim is not compromised but it is appropriate to waive late charges under the criteria of 4 CFR part 103 relating to enforcement policy;
(3) When collection of the underlying claim is terminated in accordance with 4 CFR part 104;
(4) When a claim is suspended in accordance with 4 CFR part 104.
(5) Where the cost of collecting the unpaid late charges would approach or exceed the amount of unpaid late charges to be collected and the amount of late charges does not qualify for referral to a collection agency or the Department of Justice;
(6) Where the late charges pertain to claims involving savings bonds and notes arising under 31 U.S.C. 3105 and 3106 which are replaced pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3126;
(7) For reasons of equity or good conscience as provided in § 391.2.
(b) Partial waiver. Late charges may be waived in full or in part.
Partial waiver.
Late charges may be waived in full or in part.

§ 391.2   Equitable considerations.

For reasons of equity and good conscience, late charges may be waived under the circumstances identified in this section.
(a) Where, without fault or bad faith, the debtor could not submit payment within 30 days of the interest accrual date, the mandatory waiver provision in 4 CFR 102.13(g) may be extended. Such waiver will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Examples include, but are not limited to:
(1) Postal service delays in forwarding the notice of indebtedness to a new address; and
(2) Late receipt of the notice of indebtedness where the debtor was away from home on an extended vacation or hospitalized.
(b) Where an installment plan is contemplated and the amount of the late charges in relation to the amount of reasonably affordable installment payments is so large that the debt may never be paid, late charges may be waived.

§ 391.3   Resolution of disputes.

(a) To avoid the accrual of additional late charges during the resolution of a dispute, a debtor has the option of paying the amount of the claim and filing a request for a refund together with a request for review of the claim.
(b) Where the claim is a result of the Bureau's administrative error, late charges accruing during the review period may be waived unless the Bureau's actions would have placed a reasonable person on notice that the Bureau erred and that the person should inquire further.
(c) Where the claim is a result of the debtor's error or negligence and the administrative review is unreasonably protracted, late charges accruing during the protracted portion of the review period may be waived.
(d) The period for administrative review begins on the date the request for review is received and ends 10 days after the final determination is mailed to the debtor. This paragraph shall not apply if the request for review is made in bad faith or for purposes of delay.

§ 391.4   Documentary evidence.

(a) When late charges are waived, the debtor's administrative file shall be properly documented with a memorandum. The memorandum shall contain a brief narrative statement describing the circumstances leading to the waiver and the reason(s) for granting the waiver.
(b) A credit report or a financial statement sworn to by the debtor may be required before waiver of late charges is approved for a compromise, suspension, or termination, except where the cost of obtaining such a report or statement exceeds the late charges due.

§ 391.5   Waiver approval.

Waivers of late charges shall be approved by the Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service or designee, except that compromises and terminations of the underlying claim shall be upon the recommendation of the Chief Counsel in accordance with 31 CFR 5.3.

PARTS 392-399 [RESERVED]


SUBCHAPTER B—RESERVED


CHAPTER IV—SECRET SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


PART 400 [RESERVED]


PART 401—SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF VESSELS, VEHICLES AND AIRCRAFT USED TO TRANSPORT COUNTERFEIT COINS, OBLIGATIONS, SECURITIES, AND PARAPHERNALIA

[Authority:Sec. 8, 53 Stat. 1293; 49 U.S.C. 788.]
Authority:
Sec. 8, 53 Stat. 1293; 49 U.S.C. 788.
[Source:33 FR 4257, Mar. 7, 1968, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
33 FR 4257, Mar. 7, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

§ 401.1   Secret Service agents authorized to make seizures.

All officers of the U.S. Secret Service engaged in the enforcement of counterfeiting laws are hereby authorized and designated to seize such vessels, vehicles, and aircraft as may be subject to seizure because of violations of the said act of August 9, 1939, pertaining to contraband articles referred to in section 1(b) (3) of said act.

§ 401.2   Custody.

Each vessel, vehicle, or aircraft seized pursuant to the said act of August 9, 1939, and the regulations in this part shall forthwith be placed by the seizing officer in the custody of the District Director of Customs for the customs district in which such seizure is made. Such placing in custody shall be effected by immediate notification of the appropriate District Director of Customs of the seizure, together with a statement of the facts including a description of the vessel, vehicle, or aircraft, and the holding by the seizing officer of such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft subject to the instructions of the said district director of customs.

§ 401.3   Authority of District Directors of Customs to hold in custody.

District Directors of Customs are hereby authorized and designated to hold in custody awaiting appropriate disposition vessels, vehicles, and aircraft seized pursuant to the said act of August 9, 1939, and the regulations in this part.

§ 401.4   Duties of Bureau of Customs.

With respect to every vessel, vehicle, and aircraft seized and placed in the custody of a district director of customs pursuant to the said act of August 9, 1939, and the regulations in this part, the appropriate officials of the Bureau of Customs are hereby authorized and designated as the officers who shall perform such administrative duties in connection with—
(a) The summary and judicial forfeiture and condemnation of such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft;
(b) The disposition of such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft or the proceeds from the sale thereof;
(c) The remission or mitigation of the forfeiture of such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft; and
(d) The compromise of claims and the award of compensation to informers in respect to such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft;
as may be necessary and proper by virtue of the provisions of said act of August 9, 1939, and by virtue of the provisions of the customs laws which the said act makes applicable in connection with seizures and forfeitures incurred or alleged to have been incurred under the said act and the regulations in this part. In the performance of said administrative duties the said appropriate officials of the Bureau of Customs shall be governed by the procedures established by the customs regulations, insofar as such procedures are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of the said act of August 9, 1939, and the regulations in this part. Powers of the character of those exercised by the Secretary of the Treasury and Commissioner of Customs is connection with the remission or mitigation of forfeitures under the customs laws and in connection with the compromise of claims and the award of compensation to informers under the customs laws shall be exercised by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with the remission or mitigation of forfeitures under the said act of August 9, 1939, and in connection with the compromise of claims and the award of compensation to informers under the said act.

§ 401.5   Disposition.

With respect to each vessel, vehicle, and aircraft seized pursuant to the said act of August 9, 1939, and the regulations in this part, the Director of the Secret Service shall promptly notify the Administrator of the General Services Administration and the Commissioner of Customs whether the Secret Service desires to have such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft for its official use. When forfeiture of any vessel, vehicle, or aircraft has been perfected otherwise than by court decree, the district director holding in custody such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft shall:
(a) Either return the same to the Secret Service if the Director of the Secret Service has requested it for the official use of the Secret Service
(b) Or, if the Secret Service does not desire such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft for its official use, hold such vessel, vehicle, or aircraft subject to the instructions of the Administrator of the General Services Administration.
(Secs. 301-308, 49 Stat. 879-880; 40 U.S.C. 304f-304m)

PART 402—REPRODUCTION OF CANCELED UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE STAMPS

[Authority:Secs. 474, 492, 62 Stat. 706, 710; 18 U.S.C. 474, 492.]
Authority:
Secs. 474, 492, 62 Stat. 706, 710; 18 U.S.C. 474, 492.

§ 402.1   Reproductions authorized.

Authority is hereby given to make, hold, and dispose of black and white reproductions of canceled U.S. internal revenue stamps: Provided, That such reproductions are made, held and disposed of as part of and in connection with the making, holding, and disposition, for lawful purposes, of the reproductions of the documents to which such stamps are attached.
Provided,
That such reproductions are made, held and disposed of as part of and in connection with the making, holding, and disposition, for lawful purposes, of the reproductions of the documents to which such stamps are attached.
[[33 FR 4257, Mar. 7, 1968]]

PART 403—AUTHORIZATION OF ALL BANKS, U.S. POST OFFICES, AND DISBURSING OFFICERS OF THE UNITED STATES AND THEIR AGENTS TO DELIVER TO THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT COUNTERFEIT OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER SECURITIES AND COINS OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF ANY FOREIGN GOVERNMENT

[Authority:Sec. 492, 62 Stat. 710; 18 U.S.C. 492.]
Authority:
Sec. 492, 62 Stat. 710; 18 U.S.C. 492.

§ 403.1   Delivery of counterfeit obligations and other securities and coins authorized.

Authority is hereby given to all banks and banking institutions of any nature whatsoever organized under general or special Federal or State statutes, to all U.S. Post Offices, and to all disbursing officers of the United States and their agents, to take possession of and deliver to the Treasury Department through the Secret Service all counterfeit obligations and other securities and coins of the United States or of any foreign government which shall be presented at their places of business.
[[33 FR 4257, Mar. 7, 1968]]

PART 405—ILLUSTRATION OF SAVINGS BONDS

[Authority:Sec. 474, 62 Stat. 706; 18 U.S.C. 474.]
Authority:
Sec. 474, 62 Stat. 706; 18 U.S.C. 474.

§ 405.1   Illustrations authorized.

(a) Authority is hereby given to make, hold, dispose of, and use illustrations of U.S. savings bonds for publicity purposes in connection with the campaign for the sale of such bonds.
(b) The making of any reproduction of a U.S. savings bond in any manner or any form is not permitted other than as provided in this part or pursuant to title 18, United States Code, section 504 (18 U.S.C. 504).
[[36 FR 21338, Nov. 6, 1971]]

PART 406—SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF GOLD FOR VIOLATIONS OF GOLD RESERVE ACT OF 1934 AND GOLD REGULATIONS

[Authority:R.S. 161, as amended, sec. 4, 48 Stat. 340; 5 U.S.C. 301, 31 U.S.C. 443.]
Authority:
R.S. 161, as amended, sec. 4, 48 Stat. 340; 5 U.S.C. 301, 31 U.S.C. 443.
[Source:33 FR 4258, Mar. 7, 1968, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
33 FR 4258, Mar. 7, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

§ 406.1   Secret Service officers authorized to make seizures of gold.

All agents of the U.S. Secret Service, in addition to officers of the customs, are hereby authorized and designated to seize any gold which may be subject to forfeiture for violations of the Gold Reserve Act of 1934 (31 U.S.C. 440-445) and the Gold Regulations.

§ 406.2   Custody of seized gold valued not in excess of $2,500.

Any gold, the value of which does not exceed $2,500, seized by officers of the Secret Service pursuant to the Gold Reserve Act of 1934 and the Gold Regulations, if not needed as evidence or for further investigation by the Secret Service, shall be placed forthwith by the seizing officer in the custody of the district director of customs for the customs district in which such seizure is made. Such gold shall be accompanied by a report from the Secret Service showing the basis of the seizure and a citation to each of the statutes and sections of the Gold Regulations violated.

§ 406.3   Forfeiture of gold valued not in excess of $2,500.

The district director of customs receiving custody of gold seized by the Secret Service, shall, if no petition is filed for the remission of mitigation of the forfeiture incurred, institute summary forfeiture proceedings in the judicial district in which such seizure is made under the appropriate provisions of the law and Customs Regulations applicable to the forfeiture of merchandise imported contrary to law.

§ 406.4   Duties of customs officers.

The appropriate officials of the Bureau of Customs are hereby authorized and designated as the officers who shall perform such administrative duties in connection with the summary forfeiture of gold seized by the Secret Service, the sale or other disposition of such gold, and the remission or mitigation of the forfeiture of such gold, as may be necessary or proper by virtue of the provisions of the Gold Reserve Act of 1934 and the Gold Regulations, and by virtue of the provisions of the customs laws which the said Gold Reserve Act makes applicable in connection with the seizures and forfeitures incurred or alleged to have been incurred under the said act and regulations. In the performance of said administrative duties the appropriate officials of the Bureau of Customs shall be governed by the procedures established by the Customs Regulations insofar as such procedures are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of the Gold Reserve Act of 1934 and the Gold Regulations.

§ 406.5   Forfeiture of gold valued in excess of $2,500.

When the value of the gold seized by the Secret Service exceeds $2,500, the seizing officer shall furnish a report, approved by the principal local officer, to the U.S. attorney, and shall include in such report a statement of all the facts and circumstances of the case, together with the names of the witnesses and a citation to each of the statutes and sections of the Gold Regulations believed to have been violated and on which reliance may be had for forfeiture.

PART 407—REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT IN THE TREASURY BUILDING AND THE TREASURY ANNEX

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; FPMR Temp. Reg. D-40, 38 FR 20650; Treasury Dept. Order 177-25 (Revision 2), 38 FR 21947.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; FPMR Temp. Reg. D-40, 38 FR 20650; Treasury Dept. Order 177-25 (Revision 2), 38 FR 21947.
[Source:33 FR 7149, May 15, 1968, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
33 FR 7149, May 15, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

§ 407.1   Authority.

The regulations in this part governing conduct in and on the Treasury Building and grounds and the Treasury Annex Building and grounds are promulgated pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury, including (5 U.S.C. 301), and that vested in him by delegation from the Administrator of General Services, 38 FR 20650 (1973), and in accordance with the authority vested in the Director of the U.S. Secret Service by Treasury Department Order No. 177-25 (Revision 2), 38 FR 21947 (1973).
[[38 FR 31975, Nov. 20, 1973]]

§ 407.2   Applicability.

The regulations in this part apply to the building and grounds of the Main Treasury Building and the Treasury Annex Building located in Washington, DC, at 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., and Madison Place and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., respectively, and to all persons entering in or on such property. The Main Treasury Building and grounds and the Treasury Annex Building and grounds shall hereafter be referred to in the regulations in this part as “property”.

§ 407.3   Recording presence.

Except as otherwise ordered, the property shall be closed to the public after normal working hours and at such other times as may be necessary for the orderly conduct of the business of the Treasury Department. The property shall also be closed to the public when, in the opinion of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, or his delegate, an emergency situation exists. Admission to the property during periods when the property is closed to the public will be limited to authorized individuals who may be required to sign the register and/or display identification documents when requested by Treasury guards or other authorized individuals.

§ 407.4   Preservation of property.

No person shall, without proper authority, willfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property or any part thereof, or any furnishings therein.

§ 407.5   Conformity with signs and directions.

Persons in and on the property shall comply with the instructions of Treasury guards, with official signs of a prohibitory or directory nature, and with the directions of other authorized officials.

§ 407.6   Nuisances.

The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, unwarranted loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or things, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. The throwing of any articles of any kind in, upon, or from the property and climbing upon any part thereof is prohibited.

§ 407.7   Gambling.

Participating in games for money or other property, the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, the selling or purchasing of numbers tickets, or any other gambling, in or on the property is prohibited.

§ 407.8   Intoxicating beverages and narcotics.

Entering or being on the property, or operating a motor vehicle thereon, by a person under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic drugs is prohibited.

§ 407.9   Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.

The unauthorized soliciting of alms and contributions, the commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts, in or on the property is prohibited. This prohibition does not apply to Department of Treasury concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval from the Assistant Secretary for Administration, or his delegate.

§ 407.10   Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes.

Except where security regulations apply, or a Federal court order or rule prohibits it, photographs for news purposes may be taken in areas on the property to which the public customarily has access without prior permission. Photographs for advertising and commercial purposes may be taken in such areas only with the prior written permission of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, or his delegate.

§ 407.11   Dogs and other animals.

Dogs and other animals, except seeing-eye dogs, shall not be brought upon the property for other than official purposes.

§ 407.12   Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.

(a) Drivers of all vehicles in or on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of Treasury guards and all posted traffic signs.
(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants in or on the property is prohibited.
(c) Parking in or on the property is not allowed without a permit or specific authority. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations, or in locations reserved for other persons, or contrary to the directions of Treasury guards or posted signs is prohibited.
(d) This section may be supplemented from time to time with the approval of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, or his delegate, by the issuance and posting of specific traffic directives as may be required and when so issued and posted such directives shall have the same force and effect as if made a part hereof.

§ 407.13   Weapons and explosives.

No person while on the property shall carry firearms, other dangerous or deadly weapons, or explosives, either openly or concealed, except for official purposes.

§ 407.14   Penalties and other law.

Whoever shall be found guilty of violating the regulations in this part while on the property is subject to a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both (see 40 U.S.C. 318c). Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal laws or regulations of the District of Columbia applicable to the property referred to in § 407.2 and governed by the regulations.

PART 408 [RESERVED]


PART 409—STANDARD AND PROCEDURES UTILIZED IN ISSUING A SECURITY CLEARANCE IN CONNECTION WITH AN APPLICATION FOR A PRESS PASS TO THE WHITE HOUSE

[Authority:18 U.S.C. 3056 and 3 U.S.C. 202.]
Authority:
18 U.S.C. 3056 and 3 U.S.C. 202.

§ 409.1   Standard.

In granting or denying a request for a security clearance made in response to an application for a White House press pass, officials of the Secret Service will be guided solely by the principle of whether the applicant presents a potential source of physical danger to the President and/or the family of the President so serious as to justify his or her exclusion from White House press privileges.
[[43 FR 26718, June 22, 1978]]

§ 409.2   Procedures.

(a) If the Special Agent in Charge of the Secret Service, Technical Security Division, in applying the standard set forth in § 409.1, anticipates that a denial of the security clearance should be issued, the applicant will be notified in writing, by that official, of the basis for the proposed denial in as much detail as the security of any confidential source of information will permit. This notification will be sent by registered mail.
(b) The notification of the proposed denial sent to the applicant will also contain a statement advising the applicant of his right to respond to the proposed denial and to rebut any factual basis supporting the proposed denial by contacting the Assistant Director—Protective Operations, United States Secret Service, 1800 “G” Street, NW., Washington, DC 20223.
(c) The applicant shall be allowed thirty days from the date of the mailing of the proposed denial notification to respond in writing. The response shall consist of any explanation or rebuttal deemed appropriate by the applicant and will be signed by the applicant under oath or affirmation.
(d) If the applicant is unable to prepare a response within thirty days, an extension for one additional thirty day period will be granted upon receipt of the applicant's written request for such an extension.
(e) At the time of the filing of the applicant's written response to the notification of the proposed denial the applicant may request, and will be granted, the opportunity to make a personal appearance before the Assistant Director—Protective Operations of the Secret Service for the purpose of personally supporting his eligibility for a security clearance and to rebut or explain the factual basis for the proposed denial. This official shall exercise final review authority in the matter. The applicant may be represented by counsel during this appearance.
(f)(1) On the basis of the applicant's written and personal response and the factual basis for the proposed denial, the Assistant Director—Protective Operations of the Secret Service will determine whether or not further inquiry or investigation concerning the issues raised, is necessary.
(2) If a decision is made that no such inquiry is necessary a final decision will be issued in conformity with paragraph (g) of this section.
(3) If a decision is made that such further inquiry is necessary the Assistant Director—Protective Operations of the Secret Service, will conduct such further inquiry as that official deems appropriate. At the official's discretion, the inquiry may consist of:
(i) The securing of documentary evidence;
(ii) Personal interviews;
(iii) An informal hearing;
(iv) Any combination of paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(g) On the basis of the applicant's written and personal response, the factual basis for the proposed denial and the additional inquiry provided for, if such inquiry is conducted, a final decision will be expeditiously made by the Assistant Director—Protective Operations of the United States Secret Service in accordance with the standard set forth in § 409.1. If a final adverse decision is reached, the applicant will be notified of this final decision in writing. This notification will set forth, as precisely as possible and to the extent that security considerations permit, the factual basis for the denial in relation to the standard set forth in § 409.1. This notification will be sent by registered mail and will be signed by the Assistant Director—Protective Operations of the Secret Service.
[[43 FR 26718, June 22, 1978]]

PART 411—COLOR ILLUSTRATIONS OF UNITED STATES CURRENCY

[Authority:18 U.S.C. 504; Treasury Directive Number 15-56, 58 FR 48539 (September 16, 1993)]
Authority:
18 U.S.C. 504; Treasury Directive Number 15-56, 58 FR 48539 (September 16, 1993)
[Source:61 FR 27281, May 31, 1996, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
61 FR 27281, May 31, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

§ 411.1   Color illustrations authorized.

(a) Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 25 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code, authority is hereby given for the printing, publishing or importation, or the making or importation of the necessary plates or items for such printing or publishing, of color illustrations of U.S. currency provided that:
(1) The illustration be of a size less than three-fourths or more than one and one-half, in linear dimension, of each part of any matter so illustrated;
(2) The illustration be one-sided; and
(3) All negatives, plates, positives, digitized storage medium, graphic files, magnetic medium, optical storage devices, and any other thing used in the making of the illustration that contain an image of the illustration or any part thereof shall be destroyed and/or deleted or erased after their final use in accordance with this section.
(b) [Reserved]

PART 413—CLOSURE OF STREETS NEAR THE WHITE HOUSE

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 321, 18 U.S.C. 3056, 3 U.S.C. 202, Treasury Order 170-09.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321, 18 U.S.C. 3056, 3 U.S.C. 202, Treasury Order 170-09.
[Source:60 FR 27885, May 26, 1995, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
60 FR 27885, May 26, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

§ 413.1   Closure of streets.

(a) District of Columbia. The following streets in the District of Columbia are closed to public vehicular traffic:
District of Columbia.
The following streets in the District of Columbia are closed to public vehicular traffic:
(1) The segment of Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest, situated between Madison Place, Northwest, and Seventeenth Street, Northwest;
(2) The 1600 block of State Place, Northwest, situated between Seventeenth Street, Northwest, and the White House Complex; and
(3) The segment of South Executive Avenue that connects to the 1600 block of State Place, Northwest.
(b) Authorized access. The streets described in paragraph (a) shall remain open to public pedestrian use, official use of the United States, and authorized vehicular access for ingress and egress to the White House Complex and adjacent Federal Buildings.
Authorized access.
The streets described in paragraph (a) shall remain open to public pedestrian use, official use of the United States, and authorized vehicular access for ingress and egress to the White House Complex and adjacent Federal Buildings.

§ 413.2   Coordination with other authorities.

Nothing in § 413.1 shall be in derogation of any authority conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the Treasury or the Director, United States Secret Service.

PARTS 414-499 [RESERVED]


CHAPTER V—OFFICE OF FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


PART 500 [RESERVED]


PART 501—REPORTING, PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES REGULATIONS

[Authority:8 U.S.C. 1189; 18 U.S.C. 2332d, 2339B; 19 U.S.C. 3901-3913; 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908; 22 U.S.C. 287c, 2370(a), 6009, 6032, 7205, 8501-8551; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706, 4301-4341; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).]
Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1189; 18 U.S.C. 2332d, 2339B; 19 U.S.C. 3901-3913; 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908; 22 U.S.C. 287c, 2370(a), 6009, 6032, 7205, 8501-8551; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706, 4301-4341; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
[Source:62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Parts in This Chapter


§ 501.101   Relation of this part to other parts in this chapter.

This part sets forth standard reporting and recordkeeping requirements and license application and other procedures governing transactions regulated pursuant to other parts codified in this chapter, as well as to economic sanctions programs for which implementation and administration are delegated to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Substantive prohibitions and policies particular to each economic sanctions program are not contained in this part but are set forth in the particular part of this chapter dedicated to that program, or, in the case of economic sanctions programs not yet implemented in regulations, in the applicable executive order or other authority. License application procedures and reporting requirements set forth in this part govern transactions undertaken pursuant to general or specific licenses. The criteria for general and specific licenses pertaining to a particular economic sanctions program are set forth in subpart E of the individual parts in this chapter. Statements of licensing policy contained in subpart E of the individual parts in this chapter, however, may contain additional information collection provisions that require production of specified documentation unique to a given general license or statement of licensing policy.
[[62 FR 52494, Oct. 8, 1997]]

Subpart B—Definitions


§ 501.301   Definitions.

Definitions of terms used in this part are found in subpart C of the part within this chapter applicable to the relevant application, record, report, procedure or transaction. In the case of economic sanctions programs for which implementation and administration are delegated to the Office of Foreign Assets Control but for which regulations have not yet been issued, the definitions of terms in this part are governed by definitions contained in the implementing statute or Executive order.

Subpart C—Reports


§ 501.601   Records and recordkeeping requirements.

Except as otherwise provided, every person engaging in any transaction subject to the provisions of this chapter shall keep a full and accurate record of each such transaction engaged in, regardless of whether such transaction is effected pursuant to license or otherwise, and such record shall be available for examination for at least 10 years after the date of such transaction. Except as otherwise provided, every person holding property blocked pursuant to the provisions of this chapter or funds transfers retained pursuant to § 596.504(b) of this chapter shall keep a full and accurate record of such property, and such record shall be available for examination for the period of time that such property is blocked and for at least 10 years after the date such property is unblocked.
[[62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 52494, Oct. 8, 1997; 89 FR 74834, Sept. 13, 2024]]

§ 501.602   Reports to be furnished on demand.

(a) Every person is required to furnish under oath, in the form of reports or otherwise, from time to time and at any time as may be required by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, complete information relative to any act or transaction, regardless of whether such act or transaction is effected pursuant to license or otherwise, subject to the provisions of this chapter or relative to any property in which any foreign country or any national thereof has or had any interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect. The Office of Foreign Assets Control may require that such reports include the production of any books, contracts, letters, papers, or other hard copy or electronic documents relating to any such act, transaction, or property, in the custody or control of the persons required to make such reports. Reports with respect to transactions may be required either before, during, or after such transactions. Except as provided in parts 596 and 597, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may, through any person or agency, conduct investigations, hold hearings, administer oaths, examine witnesses, receive evidence, take depositions, and require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any books, contracts, letters, papers, and other hard copy or electronic documents relating to any matter under investigation, regardless of whether any report has been required or filed in connection therewith.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “document” includes any written, recorded, or graphic matter or other means of preserving thought or expression (including in electronic format), and all tangible things stored in any medium from which information can be processed, transcribed, or obtained directly or indirectly, including correspondence, memoranda, notes, messages, contemporaneous communications such as text and instant messages, letters, emails, spreadsheets, metadata, contracts, bulletins, diaries, chronological data, minutes, books, reports, examinations, charts, ledgers, books of account, invoices, air waybills, bills of lading, worksheets, receipts, printouts, papers, schedules, affidavits, presentations, transcripts, surveys, graphic representations of any kind, drawings, photographs, graphs, video or sound recordings, and motion pictures or other film.
(c) Persons providing documents to OFAC pursuant to this section must produce documents in a usable format agreed upon by OFAC. For guidance, see OFAC's data delivery standards available on OFAC's website (http://www.treasury.gov/ofac).
http://www.treasury.gov/ofac
).
Note 1 to § 501.602:
If OFAC has reason to believe an account or transaction (or class of transactions) may involve the property or interests in property of a blocked person, OFAC may issue an instruction to one or more financial institutions that: (1) provides information or criteria to aid in the identification of blocked property; and (2) requires the financial institution to report transactions that meet the specified criteria and notify OFAC prior to processing such transactions. Upon review, OFAC may determine that a reported transaction involves the property or interests in property of a blocked person and take further action.
Note 2 to § 501.602:
See subpart F of part 597 for the relationship between this section and part 597.
[[84 FR 29058, June 21, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 40375, May 10, 2024]]

§ 501.603   Reports of blocked, unblocked, or transferred blocked property.

(a) Who must report—(1) Persons holding, unblocking, or transferring blocked property. Any U.S. person (or person subject to U.S. jurisdiction in the case of part 515 of this chapter), including a financial institution, holding, unblocking, or transferring property blocked pursuant to this chapter shall submit the relevant reports described in this section to the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). This requirement applies to all U.S. persons (or persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction in the case of part 515 of this chapter), who have in their possession or control any property blocked pursuant to this chapter, including financial institutions that receive and block payments or transfers, or who have had in their possession or control such property that is unblocked or transferred, as set out in paragraph (b) of this section.
Who must report
—(1)
Persons holding, unblocking, or transferring blocked property.
Any U.S. person (or person subject to U.S. jurisdiction in the case of part 515 of this chapter), including a financial institution, holding, unblocking, or transferring property blocked pursuant to this chapter shall submit the relevant reports described in this section to the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). This requirement applies to all U.S. persons (or persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction in the case of part 515 of this chapter), who have in their possession or control any property blocked pursuant to this chapter, including financial institutions that receive and block payments or transfers, or who have had in their possession or control such property that is unblocked or transferred, as set out in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Primary responsibility to report. A report may be filed on behalf of a person who holds, transfers, or releases blocked property by an attorney, agent, or other person. Primary responsibility for reporting, however, rests with the actual holder, transferrer, or releaser of the property, or the person exercising control over property located outside the United States, with the following exceptions: primary responsibility for reporting any trust assets rests with the trustee; and primary responsibility for reporting real property rests with any U.S. co-owner, legal representative, agent, or property manager in the United States. No person is excused from filing a report by reason of the fact that another person has submitted a report with regard to the same property, except upon actual knowledge of the report filed by such other person.
Primary responsibility to report.
A report may be filed on behalf of a person who holds, transfers, or releases blocked property by an attorney, agent, or other person. Primary responsibility for reporting, however, rests with the actual holder, transferrer, or releaser of the property, or the person exercising control over property located outside the United States, with the following exceptions: primary responsibility for reporting any trust assets rests with the trustee; and primary responsibility for reporting real property rests with any U.S. co-owner, legal representative, agent, or property manager in the United States. No person is excused from filing a report by reason of the fact that another person has submitted a report with regard to the same property, except upon actual knowledge of the report filed by such other person.
(3) Financial institution. For purposes of this section, the term “financial institution” includes a banking institution, domestic bank, United States depository institution, financial institution, or U.S. financial institution, as those terms are defined in the applicable part of this chapter.
Financial institution.
For purposes of this section, the term “financial institution” includes a banking institution, domestic bank, United States depository institution, financial institution, or U.S. financial institution, as those terms are defined in the applicable part of this chapter.
(b) What must be reported—(1) Initial blocking reports—(i) When reports are due. Reports shall be filed within 10 business days from the date that property becomes blocked.
What must be reported
—(1)
Initial blocking reports
—(i)
When reports are due.
Reports shall be filed within 10 business days from the date that property becomes blocked.
(ii) Required information to be reported. Initial reports on blocked property shall include the following:
Required information to be reported.
Initial reports on blocked property shall include the following:
(A) The name and address of the person holding the property blocked pursuant to this chapter (i.e., the person filing the report on blocked property, such as a financial institution), and the name, telephone number, and email address of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
i.e.,
the person filing the report on blocked property, such as a financial institution), and the name, telephone number, and email address of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
(B) A description of any transaction associated with the blocking, including: The type of transaction; any persons, including financial institutions, participating in the transaction and their respective locations (e.g., if relevant, customers, beneficiaries, originators, letter of credit applicants, and their banks; intermediary banks; correspondent banks; issuing banks; and advising or confirming banks); and any reference numbers, dates, or other information necessary to identify the transaction;
(C) The associated sanctions target(s) whose property is blocked (such as a Specially Designated National or other blocked person), the location(s) of the target(s) (if known), and, if not evident, a narrative description of the interest(s) of the target(s) in the property; if there is no target or the target is not known, include a reference to the relevant written communication from OFAC pursuant to which the blocking action was taken;
(D) A description of the property that is the subject of the blocking and its location in the United States or otherwise, including any relevant account numbers and account types, check numbers, reference numbers, dates, or other information necessary to identify the property;
(E) The date the property was blocked;
(F) The actual, or if unknown, estimated value of the property in U.S. Dollars. If the blocked property represents an outstanding loan, a credit card receivable, or other property with a negative balance, the amount blocked should be reported as $0.00 (zero) with the amount owed reflected in a narrative description. Blocked trade finance documents should also be reported as $0.00 (zero) with the value of the shipment reflected in a narrative description. Transactions blocked in foreign currencies must be reported in U.S. Dollars with the foreign currency amount and notional exchange rate in the narrative;
(G) Any action taken with respect to the property (e.g., depositing the property into a new or existing blocked, interest-bearing account that is labeled as such and is established in the name of, or contains a means of clearly identifying the interest of, the person subject to blocking pursuant to the requirements of this chapter);
(H) The legal authority or authorities under which the property is blocked. This may include a reference to the sanctions program (current programs are on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov), the applicable part of this chapter (e.g., 31 CFR part 515, 31 CFR part 544), an Executive order (E.O.) (e.g., E.O. 13224, E.O. 13599), or a statute (e.g., Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act). (Note: For this purpose, the term “SDN” is generic and cannot be used to identify the legal authority for blocking property); and
https://ofac.treasury.gov
), the applicable part of this chapter (e.g., 31 CFR part 515, 31 CFR part 544), an Executive order (E.O.) (e.g., E.O. 13224, E.O. 13599), or a statute (e.g., Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act). (
Note:
For this purpose, the term “SDN” is generic and cannot be used to identify the legal authority for blocking property); and
(I) A copy of any payment or transfer instructions, check, letter of credit, accompanying bill of lading, invoice, or any other relevant documentation received in connection with any related transaction.
(2) Annual reports of blocked property—(i) When reports are due. A report on all blocked property held as of June 30 of the current year shall be filed annually by September 30.
Annual reports of blocked property
—(i)
When reports are due.
A report on all blocked property held as of June 30 of the current year shall be filed annually by September 30.
(ii) Required information to be reported. Annual reports on blocked property shall include the following:
Required information to be reported.
Annual reports on blocked property shall include the following:
(A) The name and address of the person holding the property blocked pursuant to this chapter (i.e., the person filing the report on blocked property, such as a financial institution), and the name, telephone number, and email address of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
i.e.,
the person filing the report on blocked property, such as a financial institution), and the name, telephone number, and email address of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
(B) The number of accounts or items reported in the annual report;
(C) Beginning with the annual report due no later than September 30, 2020, and for each subsequent reporting year, the associated sanctions target(s) whose property is blocked, such as a Specially Designated National or other blocked person, the location(s) of the target(s), if known, and, if not evident, a narrative description of the interest(s) of the target(s) in the transaction; if there is no target or the target is not known, include a reference to the relevant written communication from OFAC pursuant to which the blocking action was taken;
(D) A description of the property that is the subject of the blocking and its location in the United States or otherwise, including any relevant account numbers and account types, check numbers, reference numbers, dates, or other information necessary to identify the property;
(E) The date the property was blocked;
(F) The actual, or if unknown, estimated value of the property in U.S. Dollars as of June 30. If a June 30 value date is not available and a value date other than June 30 is reported, so indicate. If the blocked property represents an outstanding loan, a credit card receivable, or other property with a negative balance, the amount blocked should be reported as $0.00 (zero) with the amount owed reflected in a narrative description. Blocked trade finance documents should also be reported as $0.00 (zero) with the value of the shipment reflected in a narrative description. Transactions blocked in foreign currencies must be reported in U.S. Dollars with the foreign currency amount and notional exchange rate in the narrative;
(G) The legal authority or authorities under which the property is blocked. This may include a reference to the sanctions program (current programs are listed here: www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/program_tags.aspx), the applicable part of this chapter (e.g., 31 CFR part 515, 31 CFR part 544), an Executive order (E.O.) (e.g., E.O. 13224, E.O. 13599), or a statute (e.g., Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act). (Note: For this purpose, the term “SDN” is generic and cannot be used to identify the legal authority for blocking property).
www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/SDN-List/Pages/program_tags.aspx
), the applicable part of this chapter (
e.g.,
31 CFR part 515, 31 CFR part 544), an Executive order (E.O.) (
e.g.,
E.O. 13224, E.O. 13599), or a statute (
e.g.,
Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act). (
Note:
For this purpose, the term “SDN” is generic and cannot be used to identify the legal authority for blocking property).
(3) Reports of blocked property that is unblocked or transferred—(i) When reports are due. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, reports shall be submitted to OFAC within 10 business days from the date blocked property is unblocked or transferred. For example, such reports must be filed when blocked property is unblocked or transferred pursuant to a valid order from a U.S. Government agency or U.S. court, including pursuant to a valid judicial order issued pursuant to section 201(a) of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (Pub. L. 107-297, 116 Stat. 2322, 28 U.S.C. 1610 note) or a valid order of forfeiture by any U.S. Government agency or U.S. court. Reports do not need to be filed under this section for:
Reports of blocked property that is unblocked or transferred
—(i)
When reports are due.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, reports shall be submitted to OFAC within 10 business days from the date blocked property is unblocked or transferred. For example, such reports must be filed when blocked property is unblocked or transferred pursuant to a valid order from a U.S. Government agency or U.S. court, including pursuant to a valid judicial order issued pursuant to section 201(a) of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (Pub. L. 107-297, 116 Stat. 2322, 28 U.S.C. 1610 note) or a valid order of forfeiture by any U.S. Government agency or U.S. court. Reports do not need to be filed under this section for:
(A) Authorized debits to blocked accounts for normal service charges;
(B) Authorized transfers of funds or credit by a financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices;
(C) Unblocking or transfer of blocked property that is explicitly authorized by a specific or general license, unless the specific or general license includes a condition requiring the submission of a separate unblocking report; or
(D) Unblocking of blocked property pursuant to OFAC's removal of a person from OFAC's List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List).
(ii) Required information to be reported. Reports on the release of property from blocked status (i.e., property that is unblocked) shall include the following:
Required information to be reported.
Reports on the release of property from blocked status (
i.e.,
property that is unblocked) shall include the following:
(A) The name and address of the person holding the property immediately prior to the property's release from blocked status (i.e., the person filing the unblocking or transfer report, such as a financial institution), and the name, telephone number, and email address of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
i.e.,
the person filing the unblocking or transfer report, such as a financial institution), and the name, telephone number, and email address of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
(B) The associated sanctions target(s) whose property had been previously blocked and was released from blocked status, such as a Specially Designated National or other blocked person, the location(s) of the target(s), if known, and, if not evident, a narrative description of the interest(s) of the target(s) in the previously blocked property or transaction; if there is no target or the target is not known, include a reference to the relevant written communication from OFAC pursuant to which the blocking action was taken;
(C) A description of the property that has been unblocked and its location in the United States or otherwise immediately prior to its release from blocked status, including any relevant account numbers and account types, check numbers, reference numbers, dates, or other information necessary to identify the property;
(D) The date the property was unblocked;
(E) The actual value of the property that was released from blocked status in U.S. Dollars. If the property represented an outstanding loan, a credit card receivable, or other property with a negative balance, the amount unblocked should be reported as $0.00 (zero) with the amount owed reflected in a narrative description. Trade finance documents should also be reported as $0.00 (zero) with the value of the shipment reflected in a narrative description. Transactions that were previously blocked in foreign currencies and were unblocked in a foreign currency must be reported in U.S. Dollars with the foreign currency amount and notional exchange rate in the narrative;
(F) The legal authority or authorities under which the property was unblocked or transferred. This may include, for example, reference to a specific or general license under an applicable part of this chapter or an E.O.; and
(G) A copy of the original blocking report filed with OFAC pursuant to § 501.603(b)(1) and the OFAC Reporting System report identification numbers, when available.
Note 3 to paragraph (
b
)(3).
The reporting requirement set forth in this paragraph (b)(3) applies in addition to the reporting requirement set forth in § 501.605 of this part, which requires litigants to notify OFAC of proceedings that may affect blocked property or retained funds.
(c) Reports on retained funds pursuant to § 596.504(b) of this chapter. The reporting requirements set forth in this section are applicable to any person retaining funds pursuant to § 596.504(b) or releasing such funds.
Reports on retained funds pursuant to § 596.504(b) of this chapter.
The reporting requirements set forth in this section are applicable to any person retaining funds pursuant to § 596.504(b) or releasing such funds.
(d) How to report. (1) Except as otherwise provided, all initial reports of blocked property required under § 501.603(b)(1) and the Annual Reports of Blocked Property required under § 501.603(b)(2) must be filed electronically through the OFAC Reporting System (ORS), available on OFAC's website, https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-reporting-system. While blocked funds may be maintained in omnibus accounts, the Annual Reports of Blocked Property must contain a disaggregated list showing each blocked asset contained within the omnibus account. A copy of reports submitted pursuant to this section shall be retained for the submitter's records. If a submitter can provide evidence of unique and extraordinary circumstances that would not allow the submitter to use ORS, such as lack of access to the internet, the submitter may request to submit reports in an alternative manner by calling 202/622-2490. Such requests will be subject to a presumption of denial and granted only in writing.
How to report.
(1) Except as otherwise provided, all initial reports of blocked property required under § 501.603(b)(1) and the Annual Reports of Blocked Property required under § 501.603(b)(2) must be filed electronically through the OFAC Reporting System (ORS), available on OFAC's website,
https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-reporting-system.
While blocked funds may be maintained in omnibus accounts, the Annual Reports of Blocked Property must contain a disaggregated list showing each blocked asset contained within the omnibus account. A copy of reports submitted pursuant to this section shall be retained for the submitter's records. If a submitter can provide evidence of unique and extraordinary circumstances that would not allow the submitter to use ORS, such as lack of access to the internet, the submitter may request to submit reports in an alternative manner by calling 202/622-2490. Such requests will be subject to a presumption of denial and granted only in writing.
(2) All reports of unblocked or transferred blocked property required pursuant to § 501.603(b)(3) must be submitted electronically to OFAC via email at OFACReport@treasury.gov, with the number of this section in the subject line, or through ORS, available on OFAC's website, https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-reporting-system. If a submitter can provide evidence of unique and extraordinary circumstances that would not allow the submitter to report electronically, such as lack of access to the internet, the submitter may request to submit reports in an alternative manner by calling 202/622-2490. Such requests will be subject to a presumption of denial and granted only in writing.
OFACReport@treasury.gov,
with the number of this section in the subject line, or through ORS, available on OFAC's website,
https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-reporting-system.
If a submitter can provide evidence of unique and extraordinary circumstances that would not allow the submitter to report electronically, such as lack of access to the internet, the submitter may request to submit reports in an alternative manner by calling 202/622-2490. Such requests will be subject to a presumption of denial and granted only in writing.
(e) Rules governing availability of information. Information submitted to OFAC pursuant to this section will be protected from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the provisions of 31 CFR part 1 if OFAC reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law. See 31 CFR 1.5 for additional provisions relating to confidential commercial information.
Rules governing availability of information.
Information submitted to OFAC pursuant to this section will be protected from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the provisions of 31 CFR part 1 if OFAC reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law. See 31 CFR 1.5 for additional provisions relating to confidential commercial information.
[[84 FR 29058, June 21, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 15740, Mar. 5, 2024; 89 FR 40375, May 10, 2024; 89 FR 81361, Oct. 8, 2024]]

§ 501.604   Reports of rejected transactions.

(a) Who must report—(1) Persons rejecting transactions. Any U.S. person (or person subject to U.S. jurisdiction in the case of part 515 of this chapter), including a financial institution, that rejects a transaction that is not blocked under the provisions of this chapter, but where processing or engaging in the transaction would nonetheless violate a provision contained in this chapter, shall submit a report to the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
Who must report
—(1)
Persons rejecting transactions.
Any U.S. person (or person subject to U.S. jurisdiction in the case of part 515 of this chapter), including a financial institution, that rejects a transaction that is not blocked under the provisions of this chapter, but where processing or engaging in the transaction would nonetheless violate a provision contained in this chapter, shall submit a report to the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
(2) Financial institution. For purposes of this section, the term “financial institution” includes a banking institution, domestic bank, United States depository institution, financial institution, or U.S. financial institution, as those terms are defined in the applicable part of this chapter.
Financial institution.
For purposes of this section, the term “financial institution” includes a banking institution, domestic bank, United States depository institution, financial institution, or U.S. financial institution, as those terms are defined in the applicable part of this chapter.
(3) Transaction. The term transaction for purposes of this section includes wire transfers, trade finance, transactions related to securities, checks, or foreign exchange, and sales or purchases of goods or services.
Transaction.
The term transaction for purposes of this section includes wire transfers, trade finance, transactions related to securities, checks, or foreign exchange, and sales or purchases of goods or services.
(b) Required information to be reported. Reports of rejected transactions shall include the following information, to the extent the information is available to the person submitting the report at the time the transaction is rejected:
Required information to be reported.
Reports of rejected transactions shall include the following information, to the extent the information is available to the person submitting the report at the time the transaction is rejected:
(1) The name and address of the person that rejected the transaction pursuant to this chapter (i.e., the person filing the report on the rejected transaction, such as a financial institution), and the name and telephone number of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
i.e.,
the person filing the report on the rejected transaction, such as a financial institution), and the name and telephone number of a contact from whom additional information may be obtained;
(2) A description of the rejected transaction, including the type of transaction; any persons, including financial institutions, participating in the transaction and their respective locations (e.g., customers, beneficiaries, originators, letter of credit applicants, and their banks; intermediary banks; correspondent banks; issuing banks; and advising or confirming banks); a description of the property that is the subject of the transaction; and any reference numbers, account numbers, dates, or other information necessary to identify the transaction;
e.g.,
customers, beneficiaries, originators, letter of credit applicants, and their banks; intermediary banks; correspondent banks; issuing banks; and advising or confirming banks); a description of the property that is the subject of the transaction; and any reference numbers, account numbers, dates, or other information necessary to identify the transaction;
(3) If applicable, the associated sanctions target(s) whose involvement in the transaction has resulted in the transaction being rejected, the location(s) of the associated sanctions target(s), if known, and, if not evident, a narrative description of the interest(s) of the target(s) in the transaction;
(4) The date the transaction was rejected;
(5) The actual, or if unknown, estimated value of the property in U.S. Dollars. Rejected trade documents should be reported as $0.00 (zero) with the value of the shipment reflected in a narrative description. Rejected transactions in foreign currencies must be reported in U.S. Dollars with the foreign currency amount and notional exchange rate in a narrative description;
(6) The legal authority or authorities under which the transaction was rejected. This may include a reference to the sanctions program (current programs are listed here: https://ofac.treasury.gov), the applicable part of this chapter (e.g., 31 CFR part 515, 31 CFR part 544), an Executive Order (E.O.) (e.g., E.O. 13224, E.O. 13599), or a statute (e.g., Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act). (Note: For this purpose, the term “SDN” is generic and cannot be used to identify the legal authority or authorities for rejecting transactions); and
https://ofac.treasury.gov
), the applicable part of this chapter (e.g., 31 CFR part 515, 31 CFR part 544), an Executive Order (E.O.) (e.g., E.O. 13224, E.O. 13599), or a statute (e.g., Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act). (Note: For this purpose, the term “SDN” is generic and cannot be used to identify the legal authority or authorities for rejecting transactions); and
(7) A copy of any related payment or transfer instructions, check, letter of credit, accompanying bill of lading, invoice, or any other relevant documentation received in connection with the transaction.
(c) When reports are due. Reports shall be filed within 10 business days of the rejected transaction prohibited by the provisions of this chapter.
When reports are due.
Reports shall be filed within 10 business days of the rejected transaction prohibited by the provisions of this chapter.
(d) Where to report. Reports under this section shall be submitted to OFAC through the OFAC Reporting System, available on OFAC's website, https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-reporting-system. If a submitter can provide evidence of unique and extraordinary circumstances that would not allow the submitter to use ORS, such as lack of access to the internet, the submitter may request to submit reports in an alternative manner by calling 202/622-2490. Such requests will be subject to a presumption of denial and granted only in writing.
Where to report.
Reports under this section shall be submitted to OFAC through the OFAC Reporting System, available on OFAC's website,
https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-reporting-system.
If a submitter can provide evidence of unique and extraordinary circumstances that would not allow the submitter to use ORS, such as lack of access to the internet, the submitter may request to submit reports in an alternative manner by calling 202/622-2490. Such requests will be subject to a presumption of denial and granted only in writing.
(e) Rules governing availability of information. Information submitted to OFAC pursuant to this section will be protected from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the provisions of 31 CFR part 1 if OFAC reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law. See 31 CFR 1.5 for additional provisions relating to confidential commercial information.
Rules governing availability of information.
Information submitted to OFAC pursuant to this section will be protected from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the provisions of 31 CFR part 1 if OFAC reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law. See 31 CFR 1.5 for additional provisions relating to confidential commercial information.
[[84 FR 29060, June 21, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 15740, Mar. 5, 2024; 89 FR 40376, May 10, 2024]]

§ 501.605   Reports on litigation, arbitration, and dispute resolution proceedings.

(a) U.S. persons (or persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction in the case of part 515 of this chapter) participating in litigation, arbitration, or other binding alternative dispute resolution proceedings in the United States on behalf of or against persons whose property or interests in property are blocked or whose funds have been retained pursuant to § 596.504(b) of this chapter, or when the outcome of any proceeding may affect blocked property or retained funds, must:
(1) Provide notice of such proceedings upon their commencement or upon submission or receipt of documents bringing the proceedings within the terms of the introductory text to this paragraph (a);
(2) Submit copies of all pleadings, motions, memoranda, exhibits, stipulations, correspondence, and proposed orders or judgments (including any proposed final judgment or default judgment) submitted to the court or other adjudicatory body, and all orders, decisions, opinions, or memoranda issued by the court, to the Office of the Chief Counsel (Foreign Assets Control) at OFACReport@treasury.gov with the number of this section in the subject line, within 10 days of filing, submission, or issuance. This paragraph (a)(2) shall not apply to discovery requests or responses, documents filed under seal, or requests for procedural action not seeking action dispositive of the proceedings (such as requests for extension of time to file); and
OFACReport@treasury.gov
with the number of this section in the subject line, within 10 days of filing, submission, or issuance. This paragraph (a)(2) shall not apply to discovery requests or responses, documents filed under seal, or requests for procedural action not seeking action dispositive of the proceedings (such as requests for extension of time to file); and
(3) Report by email to the Office of the Chief Counsel (Foreign Assets Control), at OFACReport@treasury.gov with the number of this section in the subject line, the scheduling of any hearing or status conference in the proceedings whenever it appears that the court or other adjudicatory body may issue an order or judgment in the proceedings (including a final judgment or default judgment) or is considering or may decide any pending request dispositive of the merits of the proceedings or of any claim raised in the proceedings.
OFACReport@treasury.gov
with the number of this section in the subject line, the scheduling of any hearing or status conference in the proceedings whenever it appears that the court or other adjudicatory body may issue an order or judgment in the proceedings (including a final judgment or default judgment) or is considering or may decide any pending request dispositive of the merits of the proceedings or of any claim raised in the proceedings.
(b) The reporting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to proceedings to which the Office of Foreign Assets Control is a party.
(c) Persons initiating proceedings subject to the reporting requirements of this section must notify the court or other adjudicatory body of the restrictions set forth under the applicable part in this chapter governing the transfer of blocked property or funds retained pursuant to § 596.504(b) of this chapter, including the prohibition on any unlicensed attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment or other judicial process with respect to any property in which, on or after the applicable effective date, there existed an interest of any person whose property and property interests were subject to blocking pursuant to this chapter or were subject to retention pursuant to § 596.504(b) of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 40377, May 10, 2024]]

§ 501.606   Reporting and recordkeeping requirements applicable to economic sanctions programs.

The reporting and recordkeeping requirements set forth in this subpart are applicable to economic sanctions programs for which implementation and administration have been delegated to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.

Subpart D—Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA) Penalties

[Source:68 FR 53642, Sept. 11, 2003, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
68 FR 53642, Sept. 11, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

§ 501.700   Applicability.

This subpart is applicable only to those parts of chapter V promulgated pursuant to the TWEA, which include parts 500, 505, and 515.

§ 501.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 16 of the TWEA, as adjusted pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note), which provides that:
(1) Persons who willfully violate any provision of TWEA or any license, rule, or regulation issued thereunder, and persons who willfully violate, neglect, or refuse to comply with any order of the President issued in compliance with the provisions of TWEA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 or, if an individual, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(2) Any property, funds, securities, papers, or other articles or documents, or any vessel, together with its tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, concerned in a violation of TWEA may upon conviction be forfeited to the United States Government.
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose a civil penalty of not more than $111,308 per violation on any person who violates any license, order, or regulation issued under TWEA.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(3):
The current civil penalty cap may be adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(4) Any property, funds, securities, papers, or other articles or documents, or any vessel, together with its tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, that is the subject of a violation subject to a civil penalty issued pursuant to TWEA shall, at the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, be forfeited to the United States Government.
(b) The criminal penalties provided in TWEA are subject to increase pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571 which, when read in conjunction with section 16 of TWEA, provides that persons convicted of violating TWEA may be fined up to the greater of either $250,000 for individuals and $1,000,000 for organizations or twice the pecuniary gain or loss from the violation.
(c) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or representations, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
[[68 FR 53642, Sept. 11, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 61361, Oct. 28, 2003; 81 FR 43073, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10435, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11877, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27715, June 14, 2019; 84 FR 29061, June 21, 2019; 85 FR 19885, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14536, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7370, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2231, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2140, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3689, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 501.702   Definitions.

(a) Chief Counsel means the Chief Counsel (Foreign Assets Control), Office of the General Counsel, Department of the Treasury.
Chief Counsel
means the Chief Counsel (Foreign Assets Control), Office of the General Counsel, Department of the Treasury.
(b) Day means calendar day. In computing any period of time prescribed in or allowed by this subpart, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays shall be excluded from the computation when the period of time prescribed or allowed is seven days or less, not including any additional time allowed for service by mail. If on the day a filing is to be made, weather or other conditions have caused the designated filing location to close, the filing deadline shall be extended to the end of the next day that the filing location is not closed and that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday. If service is made by mail, three days shall be added to the prescribed period for response.
Day
means calendar day. In computing any period of time prescribed in or allowed by this subpart, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so computed shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays shall be excluded from the computation when the period of time prescribed or allowed is seven days or less, not including any additional time allowed for service by mail. If on the day a filing is to be made, weather or other conditions have caused the designated filing location to close, the filing deadline shall be extended to the end of the next day that the filing location is not closed and that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday. If service is made by mail, three days shall be added to the prescribed period for response.
(c) Department means the Department of the Treasury.
Department
means the Department of the Treasury.
(d) Director means the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury.
(e) Ex Parte Communication means any material oral or written communication not on the public record concerning the merits of a proceeding with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, on any material matter or proceeding covered by these rules, that takes place between: A party to the proceeding, a party's counsel, or any other interested individual; and the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee handling that proceeding. A request to learn the status of a proceeding does not constitute an ex parte communication; and settlement inquiries and discussions do not constitute ex parte communications.
Ex Parte Communication
means any material oral or written communication not on the public record concerning the merits of a proceeding with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, on any material matter or proceeding covered by these rules, that takes place between: A party to the proceeding, a party's counsel, or any other interested individual; and the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee handling that proceeding. A request to learn the status of a proceeding does not constitute an ex parte communication; and settlement inquiries and discussions do not constitute ex parte communications.
(f) General Counsel means the General Counsel of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(g) Order of Settlement means a written order issued by the Director terminating a civil penalty action. An Order of Settlement does not constitute an agency decision that any violation took place.
Order of Settlement
means a written order issued by the Director terminating a civil penalty action. An Order of Settlement does not constitute an agency decision that any violation took place.
(h) Order Instituting Proceedings means a written order issued by the Director to initiate a civil penalty hearing.
Order Instituting Proceedings
means a written order issued by the Director to initiate a civil penalty hearing.
(i) Prepenalty Notice means a written notification from the Director informing a respondent of the alleged violation(s) and the respondent's right to respond.
Prepenalty Notice
means a written notification from the Director informing a respondent of the alleged violation(s) and the respondent's right to respond.
(j) Penalty Notice means a written notification from the Director informing a respondent that the Director has made a finding of violation and, absent a request for a hearing, will impose a civil monetary penalty.
Penalty Notice
means a written notification from the Director informing a respondent that the Director has made a finding of violation and, absent a request for a hearing, will impose a civil monetary penalty.
(k) Proceeding means any agency process initiated by an “Order Instituting Proceedings,” or by the filing of a petition for review of an Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling.
Proceeding
means any agency process initiated by an “Order Instituting Proceedings,” or by the filing of a petition for review of an Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling.
(l) Respondent means any individual alleged by the Director to have violated a TWEA-based sanctions regulation.
Respondent
means any individual alleged by the Director to have violated a TWEA-based sanctions regulation.
(m) Secretary's designee means a U.S. Treasury Department official delegated responsibility by the Secretary of the Treasury to consider petitions for review of Administrative Law Judge decisions made in civil penalty hearings conducted pursuant to this subpart.
Secretary's designee
means a U.S. Treasury Department official delegated responsibility by the Secretary of the Treasury to consider petitions for review of Administrative Law Judge decisions made in civil penalty hearings conducted pursuant to this subpart.
(n) Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 501.703   Overview of civil penalty process and construction of rules.

(a) The administrative process for enforcing TWEA sanctions programs proceeds as follows:
(1) The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control will notify a suspected violator (hereinafter “respondent”) of an alleged violation by issuing a “Prepenalty Notice.” The Prepenalty Notice shall describe the alleged violation(s) and include a proposed civil penalty amount.
(2) The respondent will have 60 days from the date the Prepenalty Notice is served to make a written presentation either defending against the alleged violation or admitting the violation. A respondent who admits a violation may offer information as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(3) Absent a settlement agreement or a finding that no violation occurred, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a “Penalty Notice.” The respondent will have 30 days from the date of service to either pay the penalty or request a hearing.
(4) If the respondent requests a hearing, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control will have two options:
(i) The Director may issue an “Order Instituting Proceedings” and refer the matter to an Administrative Law Judge for a hearing and decision; or
(ii) The Director may determine to discontinue the penalty action based on information presented by the respondent.
(5) Absent review by a Secretary's designee, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge will become the final decision of the Department without further proceedings.
(6) If review is taken by a Secretary's designee, the Secretary's designee reaches the final decision of the Department.
(7) A respondent may seek judicial review of the final decision of the Department.
(b) Construction of rules. The rules contained in this subpart shall be construed and administered to promote the just, speedy, and inexpensive determination of every action. To the extent there is a conflict between the rules contained in this subpart and a procedural requirement contained in any statute, the requirement in the statute shall control.
Construction of rules.
The rules contained in this subpart shall be construed and administered to promote the just, speedy, and inexpensive determination of every action. To the extent there is a conflict between the rules contained in this subpart and a procedural requirement contained in any statute, the requirement in the statute shall control.

§ 501.704   Appearance and practice.

No person shall be represented before the Director in any civil penalty matter, or an Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee in a civil penalty hearing, under this subpart except as provided in this section.
(a) Representing oneself. In any proceeding, an individual may appear on his or her own behalf.
Representing oneself.
In any proceeding, an individual may appear on his or her own behalf.
(b) Representative. Upon written notice to the Director,
Representative.
Upon written notice to the Director,
(1) A respondent may be represented by a personal representative. If a respondent wishes to be represented by counsel, such counsel must be an attorney at law admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States, the highest court of any State, commonwealth, possession, or territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia;
(2) A duly authorized member of a partnership may represent the partnership; and
(3) A bona fide officer, director, or employee of a corporation, trust or association may represent the corporation, trust or association.
(c) Director representation. The Director shall be represented by members of the Office of Chief Counsel or any other counsel specifically assigned by the General Counsel.
Director representation.
The Director shall be represented by members of the Office of Chief Counsel or any other counsel specifically assigned by the General Counsel.
(d) Conflicts of interest—(1) Conflict of interest in representation. No individual shall appear as representative for a respondent in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart if it reasonably appears that such representation may be materially limited by that representative's responsibilities to a third person, or by that representative's own interests.
Conflicts of interest
—(1)
Conflict of interest in representation.
No individual shall appear as representative for a respondent in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart if it reasonably appears that such representation may be materially limited by that representative's responsibilities to a third person, or by that representative's own interests.
(2) Corrective measures. An Administrative Law Judge may take corrective measures at any stage of a proceeding to cure a conflict of interest in representation, including the issuance of an order limiting the scope of representation or disqualifying an individual from appearing in a representative capacity for the duration of the proceeding.
Corrective measures.
An Administrative Law Judge may take corrective measures at any stage of a proceeding to cure a conflict of interest in representation, including the issuance of an order limiting the scope of representation or disqualifying an individual from appearing in a representative capacity for the duration of the proceeding.

§ 501.705   Service and filing.

(a) Service of Prepenalty Notice, Penalty Notice, Acknowledgment of Hearing Request and Order Instituting Proceedings. The Director shall cause any Prepenalty Notice, Penalty Notice, Acknowledgment of Hearing Request, Order Instituting Proceedings, and other related orders and decisions, or any amendments or supplements thereto, to be served upon the respondent.
Service of Prepenalty Notice, Penalty Notice, Acknowledgment of Hearing Request and Order Instituting Proceedings.
The Director shall cause any Prepenalty Notice, Penalty Notice, Acknowledgment of Hearing Request, Order Instituting Proceedings, and other related orders and decisions, or any amendments or supplements thereto, to be served upon the respondent.
(1) Service on individuals. Service shall be complete:
Service on individuals.
Service shall be complete:
(i) Upon the date of mailing by first class (regular) mail to the respondent at the respondent's last known address, or to a representative authorized to receive service, including qualified representatives noticed to the Director pursuant to § 501.704. Absent satisfactory evidence in the administrative record to the contrary, the Director may presume that the date of mailing is the date stamped on the first page of the notice or order. The respondent may rebut the presumption that a notice or order was mailed on the stamped mailing date only by presenting evidence of the postmark date on the envelope in which the notice or order was mailed;
(ii) Upon personal service on the respondent; or leaving a copy at the respondent's place of business with a clerk or other person in charge thereof; or leaving a copy at the respondent's dwelling house or usual place of abode with a person at least 18 years of age then residing therein; or with any other representative authorized by appointment or by law to accept or receive service for the respondent, including representatives noticed to the Director pursuant to § 501.704; and evidenced by a certificate of service signed and dated by the individual making such service, stating the method of service and the identity of the individual with whom the notice or order was left; or
(iii) Upon proof of service on a respondent who is not resident in the United States by any method of service permitted by the law of the jurisdiction in which the respondent resides or is located, provided the requirements of such foreign law satisfy due process requirements under United States law with respect to notice of administrative proceedings, and where applicable laws or intergovernmental agreements or understandings make the methods of service set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section inappropriate or ineffective for service upon the nonresident respondent.
(2) Service on corporations and other entities. Service is complete upon delivering a copy of the notice or order to a partner, bona fide officer, director, managing or general agent, or any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive such notice, by any method specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
Service on corporations and other entities.
Service is complete upon delivering a copy of the notice or order to a partner, bona fide officer, director, managing or general agent, or any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive such notice, by any method specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Service of responses to Prepenalty Notice, Penalty Notice, and requests for a hearing. A respondent shall serve a response to a Prepenalty Notice and any request for a hearing on the Director through the Chief of Civil Penalties, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Treasury Department, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington DC 20220, with the envelope prominently marked “Urgent: Part 501 Action.” Service shall be complete upon the date of mailing, as evidenced by the post-mark date on the envelope, by first class (regular) mail.
Service of responses to Prepenalty Notice, Penalty Notice, and requests for a hearing.
A respondent shall serve a response to a Prepenalty Notice and any request for a hearing on the Director through the Chief of Civil Penalties, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Treasury Department, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington DC 20220, with the envelope prominently marked “Urgent: Part 501 Action.” Service shall be complete upon the date of mailing, as evidenced by the post-mark date on the envelope, by first class (regular) mail.
(c) Service or filing of papers in connection with any hearing by an Administrative Law Judge or review by the Secretary's designee—(1) Service on the Director and/or each respondent. (i) Each paper, including each notice of appearance, written motion, brief, petition for review, statement in opposition to petition for review, or other written communication, shall be served upon the Director and/or each respondent in the proceeding in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; provided, however, that no service shall be required in the case of documents that are the subject of a motion seeking a protective order to limit or prevent disclosure to another party.
Service or filing of papers in connection with any hearing by an Administrative Law Judge or review by the Secretary's designee
—(1)
Service on the Director and/or each respondent.
(i) Each paper, including each notice of appearance, written motion, brief, petition for review, statement in opposition to petition for review, or other written communication, shall be served upon the Director and/or each respondent in the proceeding in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; provided, however, that no service shall be required in the case of documents that are the subject of a motion seeking a protective order to limit or prevent disclosure to another party.
(ii) Service upon the Director shall be made through the Chief Counsel (Foreign Assets Control), U.S. Treasury Department, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220, with the envelope prominently marked “Urgent: Part 501 Proceeding.”
(iii) Service may be made:
(A) As provided in paragraph (a) of this section;
(B) By mailing the papers through the U.S. Postal Service by Express Mail; or
(C) By transmitting the papers by facsimile machine where the following conditions are met:
(1) The persons serving each other by facsimile transmission have agreed to do so in a writing, signed by each party, which specifies such terms as they deem necessary with respect to facsimile machine telephone numbers to be used, hours of facsimile machine operation, the provision of non-facsimile original or copy, and any other such matters; and
1
) The persons serving each other by facsimile transmission have agreed to do so in a writing, signed by each party, which specifies such terms as they deem necessary with respect to facsimile machine telephone numbers to be used, hours of facsimile machine operation, the provision of non-facsimile original or copy, and any other such matters; and
(2) Receipt of each document served by facsimile is confirmed by a manually signed receipt delivered by facsimile machine or other means agreed to by the parties.
2
) Receipt of each document served by facsimile is confirmed by a manually signed receipt delivered by facsimile machine or other means agreed to by the parties.
(iv) Service by U.S. Postal Service Express Mail is complete upon delivery as evidenced by the sender's receipt. Service by facsimile is complete upon confirmation of transmission by delivery of a manually signed receipt.
(2) Filing with the Administrative Law Judge. Unless otherwise provided, all briefs, motions, objections, applications or other filings made during a proceeding before an Administrative Law Judge, and all requests for review by the Secretary's designee, shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
Filing with the Administrative Law Judge.
Unless otherwise provided, all briefs, motions, objections, applications or other filings made during a proceeding before an Administrative Law Judge, and all requests for review by the Secretary's designee, shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
(3) Filing with the Secretary's designee. And all briefs, motions, objections, applications or other filings made during a proceeding before the Secretary's designee shall be filed with the Secretary's designee.
Filing with the Secretary's designee.
And all briefs, motions, objections, applications or other filings made during a proceeding before the Secretary's designee shall be filed with the Secretary's designee.
(4) Certificate of service. Papers filed with an Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee shall be accompanied by a certificate stating the name of each person served, the date of service, the method of service and the mailing address or facsimile telephone number to which service was made, if not made in person. If the method of service to any person is different from the method of service to any other person, the certificate shall state why a different means of service was used.
Certificate of service.
Papers filed with an Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee shall be accompanied by a certificate stating the name of each person served, the date of service, the method of service and the mailing address or facsimile telephone number to which service was made, if not made in person. If the method of service to any person is different from the method of service to any other person, the certificate shall state why a different means of service was used.
(5) Form of briefs. All briefs containing more than 10 pages shall, to the extent applicable, include a table of contents, an alphabetized table of cases, a table of statutes, and a table of other authorities cited, with references to the pages of the brief wherein they are cited.
Form of briefs.
All briefs containing more than 10 pages shall, to the extent applicable, include a table of contents, an alphabetized table of cases, a table of statutes, and a table of other authorities cited, with references to the pages of the brief wherein they are cited.
(6) Specifications. All original documents shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee, as appropriate. Papers filed in connection with any proceeding shall:
Specifications.
All original documents shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee, as appropriate. Papers filed in connection with any proceeding shall:
(i) Be on one grade of unglazed white paper measuring 8.5 × 11 inches, except that, to the extent that the reduction of larger documents would render them illegible, such documents may be filed on larger paper;
(ii) Be typewritten or printed in either 10- or 12-point typeface or otherwise reproduced by a process that produces permanent and plainly legible copies;
(iii) Include at the head of the paper, or on a title page, the title of the proceeding, the name(s) of each respondent, the subject of the particular paper or pleading, and the file number assigned to the proceeding;
(iv) Be formatted with all margins at least 1 inch wide;
(v) Be double-spaced, with single-spaced footnotes and single-spaced indented quotations; and
(vi) Be stapled, clipped or otherwise fastened in the upper left corner.
(7) Signature requirement and effect. All papers must be dated and signed by a member of the Office of Chief Counsel, or other counsel assigned by the General Counsel to represent the Director, or a respondent or respondent's representative, as appropriate. If a filing is signed by a respondent's representative it shall state that representative's mailing address and telephone number. A respondent who represents himself or herself shall sign his or her individual name and state his or her address and telephone number on every filing. A witness deposition shall be signed by the witness.
Signature requirement and effect.
All papers must be dated and signed by a member of the Office of Chief Counsel, or other counsel assigned by the General Counsel to represent the Director, or a respondent or respondent's representative, as appropriate. If a filing is signed by a respondent's representative it shall state that representative's mailing address and telephone number. A respondent who represents himself or herself shall sign his or her individual name and state his or her address and telephone number on every filing. A witness deposition shall be signed by the witness.
(i) Effect of signature. The signature shall constitute a certification that:
Effect of signature.
The signature shall constitute a certification that:
(A) The person signing the filing has read the filing;
(B) To the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief, formed after reasonable inquiry, the filing is well grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and
(C) The filing is not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of adjudication.
(ii) If a filing is not signed, the Administrative Law Judge (or the Secretary's designee) shall strike the filing, unless it is signed promptly after the omission is called to the attention of the person making the filing.
(d) Service of written orders or decisions issued by the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee. Written orders or decisions issued by the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee shall be served promptly on each respondent and the Director pursuant to any method of service authorized under paragraph (a) of this section. Service of such orders or decisions shall be made by the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate.

§ 501.706   Prepenalty Notice; issuance by Director.

(a) When required. If the Director has reason to believe there has occurred a violation of any provision of parts 500 or 515 of this chapter or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary pursuant to parts 500 or 515 of this chapter or otherwise under the Trading With the Enemy Act, and the Director determines that further civil proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue a Prepenalty Notice. The Prepenalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter.
When required.
If the Director has reason to believe there has occurred a violation of any provision of parts 500 or 515 of this chapter or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary pursuant to parts 500 or 515 of this chapter or otherwise under the Trading With the Enemy Act, and the Director determines that further civil proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue a Prepenalty Notice. The Prepenalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter.
(b) Contents of notice—(1) Facts of violation. The Prepenalty Notice shall describe the alleged violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
Contents of notice
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The Prepenalty Notice shall describe the alleged violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2) Right to respond. The Prepenalty Notice shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to make a written presentation within the time prescribed in § 501.707 as to why the respondent believes there should be no finding of a violation or why, if the respondent admits the violation, a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed. The Prepenalty Notice shall also inform the respondent that:
Right to respond.
The Prepenalty Notice shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to make a written presentation within the time prescribed in § 501.707 as to why the respondent believes there should be no finding of a violation or why, if the respondent admits the violation, a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed. The Prepenalty Notice shall also inform the respondent that:
(i) The act of submitting a written response by the respondent is a factor that may result in a lower penalty absent any aggravating factors; and
(ii) If the respondent fails to respond to the Prepenalty Notice within the applicable 60-day period set forth in § 501.707, the Director may proceed with the issuance of a Penalty Notice.
(3) Right to request a hearing. The Prepenalty Notice shall inform the respondent of respondent's right, if a subsequent Penalty Notice is issued, to request an administrative hearing. The Director will not consider any request for an administrative hearing until a Penalty Notice has been issued.
Right to request a hearing.
The Prepenalty Notice shall inform the respondent of respondent's right, if a subsequent Penalty Notice is issued, to request an administrative hearing. The Director will not consider any request for an administrative hearing until a Penalty Notice has been issued.

§ 501.707   Response to Prepenalty Notice.

(a) Deadline for response. (1) The respondent shall have 60 days after the date of service of the Prepenalty Notice pursuant to § 501.705(a) to respond thereto. The response, signed and dated, shall be served as provided in § 501.705(b).
Deadline for response.
(1) The respondent shall have 60 days after the date of service of the Prepenalty Notice pursuant to § 501.705(a) to respond thereto. The response, signed and dated, shall be served as provided in § 501.705(b).
(2) In response to a written request by the respondent, the Director may, at his or her discretion for the purpose of conducting settlement negotiations or for other valid reasons, grant additional time for a respondent to submit a response to the Prepenalty Notice.
(3) The failure to submit a response within the time period set forth in this paragraph (a), including any additional time granted by the Director, shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond to the Prepenalty Notice.
(b) Form and contents of response—(1) In general. The response need not be in any particular form, but must be typewritten and contain the heading “Response to Prepenalty Notice” and the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number shown near the top of the Prepenalty Notice. It should be responsive to the allegations contained therein and set forth the nature of the respondent's admission of the violation, or defenses and claims for mitigation, if any.
Form and contents of response
—(1)
In general.
The response need not be in any particular form, but must be typewritten and contain the heading “Response to Prepenalty Notice” and the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number shown near the top of the Prepenalty Notice. It should be responsive to the allegations contained therein and set forth the nature of the respondent's admission of the violation, or defenses and claims for mitigation, if any.
(i) The response must admit or deny specifically each separate allegation of violation made in the Prepenalty Notice. If the respondent is without knowledge as to an allegation, the response shall so state, and such statement shall constitute a denial. Any allegation not specifically addressed in the response shall be deemed admitted.
(ii) The response must set forth any additional or new matter or arguments the respondent seeks, or shall seek, to use in support of all defenses or claims for mitigation. Any defense the respondent wishes to assert must be included in the response.
(iii) The response must accurately state (for each respondent, if applicable) the respondent's full name and address for future service, together with a current telephone and, if applicable, facsimile machine number. If respondent is represented, the representative's full name and address, together with telephone and facsimile numbers, may be provided instead of service information for the respondent. The respondent or respondent's representative of record is responsible for providing timely written notice to the Director of any subsequent changes in the information provided.
(iv) Financial disclosure statement requirement. Any respondent who asserts financial hardship or an inability to pay a penalty shall include with the response a financial disclosure statement setting forth in detail the basis for asserting the financial hardship or inability to pay a penalty, subject to 18 U.S.C. 1001.
Financial disclosure statement requirement.
Any respondent who asserts financial hardship or an inability to pay a penalty shall include with the response a financial disclosure statement setting forth in detail the basis for asserting the financial hardship or inability to pay a penalty, subject to 18 U.S.C. 1001.
(2) Settlement. In addition, or as an alternative, to a written response to a Prepenalty Notice, the respondent or respondent's representative may seek settlement of the alleged violation(s). See § 501.710. In the event of settlement prior to the issuance of a Penalty Notice, the claim proposed in the Prepenalty Notice will be withdrawn and the respondent will not be required to make a written response to the Prepenalty Notice. In the event no settlement is reached, a written response to the Prepenalty Notice is required pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
Settlement.
In addition, or as an alternative, to a written response to a Prepenalty Notice, the respondent or respondent's representative may seek settlement of the alleged violation(s). See § 501.710. In the event of settlement prior to the issuance of a Penalty Notice, the claim proposed in the Prepenalty Notice will be withdrawn and the respondent will not be required to make a written response to the Prepenalty Notice. In the event no settlement is reached, a written response to the Prepenalty Notice is required pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.

§ 501.708   Director's finding of no penalty warranted.

If after considering any written response to the Prepenalty Notice submitted pursuant to § 501.707 and any other relevant facts, the Director determines that there was no violation or that the violation does not warrant the imposition of a civil monetary penalty, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no civil monetary penalty pursuant to this subpart will be imposed.

§ 501.709   Penalty notice.

(a) If, after considering any written response to the Prepenalty Notice, and any other relevant facts, the Director determines that there was a violation by the respondent and that a monetary penalty is warranted, the Director promptly shall issue a Penalty Notice informing the respondent that, absent a timely request for an administrative hearing, the Director will impose the civil monetary penalty described in the Penalty Notice. The Penalty Notice shall inform the respondent:
(1) Of the respondent's right to submit a written request for an administrative hearing not later than 30 days after the date of service of the Penalty Notice;
(2) That in the absence of a timely request for a hearing, the issuance of the Penalty Notice constitutes final agency action;
(3) That, absent a timely request for a hearing, payment (or arrangement with the Financial Management Service of the Department for installment payment) of the assessed penalty must be made not later than 30 days after the date of service of the Penalty Notice; and
(4) That absent a timely request for a hearing, the respondent must furnish respondent's taxpayer identification number pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701 and that the Director intends to use such information for the purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent penalty amount in the event of a failure to pay the penalty imposed.

§ 501.710   Settlement.

(a) Availability. Either the Director or any respondent may, at any time during the administrative civil penalty process described in this subpart, propose an offer of settlement. The amount accepted in settlement may be less than the civil penalty that might be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. Upon mutual agreement by the Director and a respondent on the terms of a settlement, the Director shall issue an Order of Settlement.
Availability.
Either the Director or any respondent may, at any time during the administrative civil penalty process described in this subpart, propose an offer of settlement. The amount accepted in settlement may be less than the civil penalty that might be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. Upon mutual agreement by the Director and a respondent on the terms of a settlement, the Director shall issue an Order of Settlement.
(b) Procedure—(1) Prior to issuance of Penalty Notice. Any offer of settlement made by a respondent prior to the issuance of a Penalty Notice shall be submitted, in writing, to the Chief of Civil Penalties, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
Procedure
—(1)
Prior to issuance of Penalty Notice.
Any offer of settlement made by a respondent prior to the issuance of a Penalty Notice shall be submitted, in writing, to the Chief of Civil Penalties, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
(2) After issuance of Penalty Notice. Any offer of settlement made by a respondent after issuance of a Penalty Notice shall state that it is made pursuant to this section; shall recite or incorporate as a part of the offer the provisions of paragraphs (b)(5)(ii) and (b)(6) of this section; shall be signed by the respondent making the offer, and not only by his or her representative; and shall be submitted to the Chief Counsel.
After issuance of Penalty Notice.
Any offer of settlement made by a respondent after issuance of a Penalty Notice shall state that it is made pursuant to this section; shall recite or incorporate as a part of the offer the provisions of paragraphs (b)(5)(ii) and (b)(6) of this section; shall be signed by the respondent making the offer, and not only by his or her representative; and shall be submitted to the Chief Counsel.
(3) Extensions of time. The submission of any settlement offer does not provide a basis for adjourning or otherwise delaying all or any portion of the administrative civil penalty process.
Extensions of time.
The submission of any settlement offer does not provide a basis for adjourning or otherwise delaying all or any portion of the administrative civil penalty process.
(i) Prior to issuance of Order Instituting Proceedings. Any respondent (or potential respondent in the case of a pending Prepenalty Notice) may request, in writing, that the Director withhold issuance of any such notice, or grant an extension of time to respond to any such Notice, for a period not to exceed 60 days for the exclusive purpose of effecting settlement. The Director may grant any such request, in writing, under terms and conditions within his or her discretion.
Prior to issuance of Order Instituting Proceedings.
Any respondent (or potential respondent in the case of a pending Prepenalty Notice) may request, in writing, that the Director withhold issuance of any such notice, or grant an extension of time to respond to any such Notice, for a period not to exceed 60 days for the exclusive purpose of effecting settlement. The Director may grant any such request, in writing, under terms and conditions within his or her discretion.
(ii) After issuance of Order Instituting Proceedings. Upon mutual agreement of the Director and a respondent, the Administrative Law Judge may grant an extension of time, for a period not to exceed 60 days, for the exclusive purpose of effecting settlement.
After issuance of Order Instituting Proceedings.
Upon mutual agreement of the Director and a respondent, the Administrative Law Judge may grant an extension of time, for a period not to exceed 60 days, for the exclusive purpose of effecting settlement.
(4) Views of Administrative Law Judge. Where an Administrative Law Judge is assigned to a proceeding, the Director or the respondent may request that the Administrative Law Judge express his or her views regarding the appropriateness of the offer of settlement. A request for the Administrative Law Judge to express his or her views on an offer of settlement or otherwise to participate in a settlement conference constitutes a waiver by the party making the request of any right to claim bias or prejudgment by the Administrative Law Judge based on the views expressed.
Views of Administrative Law Judge.
Where an Administrative Law Judge is assigned to a proceeding, the Director or the respondent may request that the Administrative Law Judge express his or her views regarding the appropriateness of the offer of settlement. A request for the Administrative Law Judge to express his or her views on an offer of settlement or otherwise to participate in a settlement conference constitutes a waiver by the party making the request of any right to claim bias or prejudgment by the Administrative Law Judge based on the views expressed.
(5) Waivers. (i) By submitting an offer of settlement, a respondent making the offer waives, subject to acceptance of the offer:
Waivers.
(i) By submitting an offer of settlement, a respondent making the offer waives, subject to acceptance of the offer:
(A) All hearings pursuant to section 16 of the Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 16);
(B) The filing of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(C) Proceedings before, and a decision by, an Administrative Law Judge;
(D) All post-hearing procedures; and
(E) Judicial review by any court.
(ii) By submitting an offer of settlement the respondent further waives:
(A) Such provisions of this subpart or other requirements of law as may be construed to prevent any member of the Director's staff, or members of the Office of Chief Counsel or other counsel assigned by the General Counsel, from participating in or advising the Director as to any order, opinion, finding of fact, or conclusion of law to be entered pursuant to the offer; and
(B) Any right to claim bias or prejudgment by the Director based on the consideration of or discussions concerning settlement of all or any part of the proceeding.
(6) If the Director rejects the offer of settlement, the respondent shall be so notified in writing and the offer of settlement shall be deemed withdrawn. The rejected offer shall not constitute a part of the record in any proceeding against the respondent making the offer, provided, however, that rejection of an offer of settlement does not affect the continued validity of waivers pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section with respect to any discussions concerning the rejected offer of settlement.
(7) No settlement offer or proposal, or any subsequent negotiation or resolution, is admissible as evidence in any administrative proceeding initiated by the Director.

§ 501.711   Hearing request.

(a) Deadline for request. A request for an agency hearing shall be served on the Director not later than 30 days after the date of service of the Penalty Notice. See § 501.705(b). A respondent may not reserve the right to request a hearing after expiration of the 30 calendar day period. A request for a hearing that is not made as required by this paragraph shall constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to a hearing.
Deadline for request.
A request for an agency hearing shall be served on the Director not later than 30 days after the date of service of the Penalty Notice. See § 501.705(b). A respondent may not reserve the right to request a hearing after expiration of the 30 calendar day period. A request for a hearing that is not made as required by this paragraph shall constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to a hearing.
(b) Form and contents of request. The request need not be in any particular form, but must be typewritten and contain the heading “Request for Agency Hearing”. The request must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number shown near the top of the Penalty Notice. It should be responsive to the determination contained in the Penalty Notice and set forth the nature of the respondent's defenses or claims for mitigation, if any.
Form and contents of request.
The request need not be in any particular form, but must be typewritten and contain the heading “Request for Agency Hearing”. The request must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number shown near the top of the Penalty Notice. It should be responsive to the determination contained in the Penalty Notice and set forth the nature of the respondent's defenses or claims for mitigation, if any.
(1) The request must admit or deny specifically each separate determination of violation made in the Penalty Notice. If the respondent is without knowledge as to a determination, the request shall so state, and such statement shall constitute a denial. Any determination not specifically addressed in the response shall be deemed admitted.
(2) The request must set forth any additional or new matter or arguments the respondent seeks, or shall seek, to use in support of all defenses or claims for mitigation. Any defense the respondent wishes to assert must be included in the request.
(3) The request must accurately state, for each respondent (if applicable), the respondent's full name and address for future service, together with current telephone and, if applicable, a facsimile machine number. If respondent is represented, the representative's full name and address, together with telephone and facsimile numbers, may be provided in lieu of service information for the respondent. The respondent or respondent's representative is responsible for providing timely written notice to the Director of any subsequent changes in the information provided.
(c) Signature requirement. The respondent or, if represented, the respondent's representative, must sign the hearing request.
Signature requirement.
The respondent or, if represented, the respondent's representative, must sign the hearing request.

§ 501.712   Acknowledgment of hearing request.

No later than 60 days after service of any hearing request, the Director shall acknowledge receipt and inform a respondent, in writing, whether an Order Instituting Proceedings shall be issued.

§ 501.713   Order Instituting Proceedings.

If a respondent makes a timely request for a hearing, the Director shall determine, at his or her option, whether to dismiss the violation(s) set forth in the Penalty Notice or to issue an Order Instituting Proceedings to initiate the hearing process. The Order shall be served on the respondent(s) as provided in § 501.705(c)(1). The Director may, in his or her discretion, withdraw an Order Instituting Proceedings at any time prior to the issuance of a decision by the Administrative Law Judge.
(a) Content of Order. The Order Instituting Proceedings shall:
Content of Order.
The Order Instituting Proceedings shall:
(1) Be prepared by the Office of the Chief Counsel or other counsel assigned by the General Counsel and based on information provided by the Director;
(2) State the legal authority under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) Contain a short and plain statement of the alleged violation(s) to be considered and determined (including the matters of fact and law asserted) in such detail as will permit a specific response thereto;
(4) State the amount of the penalty sought in the proceeding; and
(5) Be signed by the Director.
(b) Combining penalty actions. The Director may combine claims contained in two or more Penalty Notices involving the same respondent, and for which hearings have been requested, into a single Order Instituting Proceedings.
Combining penalty actions.
The Director may combine claims contained in two or more Penalty Notices involving the same respondent, and for which hearings have been requested, into a single Order Instituting Proceedings.
(c) Amendment to Order Instituting Proceedings. Upon motion by the Director, the Administrative Law Judge may, at any time prior to issuance of a decision, permit the Director to amend an Order Instituting Proceedings to include new matters of fact or law that are within the scope of the original Order Instituting Proceedings.
Amendment to Order Instituting Proceedings.
Upon motion by the Director, the Administrative Law Judge may, at any time prior to issuance of a decision, permit the Director to amend an Order Instituting Proceedings to include new matters of fact or law that are within the scope of the original Order Instituting Proceedings.

§ 501.714   Answer to Order Instituting Proceedings.

(a) When required. Not later than 45 days after service of the Order Instituting Proceedings, the respondent shall file, with the Administrative Law Judge and the Office of Chief Counsel, an answer to each of the allegations contained therein. If the Order Instituting Proceedings is amended, the Administrative Law Judge may require that an amended answer be filed and, if such an answer is required, shall specify a date for the filing thereof.
When required.
Not later than 45 days after service of the Order Instituting Proceedings, the respondent shall file, with the Administrative Law Judge and the Office of Chief Counsel, an answer to each of the allegations contained therein. If the Order Instituting Proceedings is amended, the Administrative Law Judge may require that an amended answer be filed and, if such an answer is required, shall specify a date for the filing thereof.
(b) Contents; effect of failure to deny. Unless otherwise directed by the Administrative Law Judge, an answer shall specifically admit, deny, or state that the respondent does not have, and is unable to obtain, sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation in the Order Instituting Proceedings. When a respondent intends to deny only a part of an allegation, the respondent shall specify so much of it as is true and shall deny only the remainder. A statement of lack of information shall have the effect of a denial. A defense of res judicata, statute of limitations or any other matter constituting an affirmative defense shall be asserted in the answer. Any allegation not specifically addressed in the answer shall be deemed admitted.
Contents; effect of failure to deny.
Unless otherwise directed by the Administrative Law Judge, an answer shall specifically admit, deny, or state that the respondent does not have, and is unable to obtain, sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation in the Order Instituting Proceedings. When a respondent intends to deny only a part of an allegation, the respondent shall specify so much of it as is true and shall deny only the remainder. A statement of lack of information shall have the effect of a denial. A defense of res judicata, statute of limitations or any other matter constituting an affirmative defense shall be asserted in the answer. Any allegation not specifically addressed in the answer shall be deemed admitted.
(c) Motion for more definite statement. A respondent may file with an answer a motion for a more definite statement of specified matters of fact or law to be considered or determined. Such motion shall state the respects in which, and the reasons why, each such matter of fact or law should be required to be made more definite. If the motion is granted, the order granting such motion shall set the periods for filing such a statement and any answer thereto.
Motion for more definite statement.
A respondent may file with an answer a motion for a more definite statement of specified matters of fact or law to be considered or determined. Such motion shall state the respects in which, and the reasons why, each such matter of fact or law should be required to be made more definite. If the motion is granted, the order granting such motion shall set the periods for filing such a statement and any answer thereto.
(d) Amendments. A respondent may amend its answer at any time by written consent of the Director or with permission of the Administrative Law Judge. Permission shall be freely granted when justice so requires.
Amendments.
A respondent may amend its answer at any time by written consent of the Director or with permission of the Administrative Law Judge. Permission shall be freely granted when justice so requires.
(e) Failure to file answer: default. If a respondent fails to file an answer required by this subpart within the time prescribed, such respondent may be deemed in default pursuant to § 501.716(a). A party may make a motion to set aside a default pursuant to § 501.726(e).
Failure to file answer:
default. If a respondent fails to file an answer required by this subpart within the time prescribed, such respondent may be deemed in default pursuant to § 501.716(a). A party may make a motion to set aside a default pursuant to § 501.726(e).

§ 501.715   Notice of Hearing.

(a) If the Director issues an Order Instituting Proceedings, the respondent shall receive not less than 45 days notice of the time and place of the hearing.
(b) Time and place of hearing. All hearings shall be held in the Washington, DC metropolitan area unless, based on extraordinary reasons, otherwise mutually agreed by the respondent and the Director. The time for any hearing shall be fixed with due regard for the public interest and the convenience and necessity of the parties or their representatives. Requests to change the time of a hearing may be submitted to the Administrative Law Judge, who may modify the hearing date(s) and/or time(s) and place. All requests for a change in the date and time and/or place of a hearing must be received by the Administrative Law Judge and served upon the parties no later than 15 days before the scheduled hearing date.
Time and place of hearing.
All hearings shall be held in the Washington, DC metropolitan area unless, based on extraordinary reasons, otherwise mutually agreed by the respondent and the Director. The time for any hearing shall be fixed with due regard for the public interest and the convenience and necessity of the parties or their representatives. Requests to change the time of a hearing may be submitted to the Administrative Law Judge, who may modify the hearing date(s) and/or time(s) and place. All requests for a change in the date and time and/or place of a hearing must be received by the Administrative Law Judge and served upon the parties no later than 15 days before the scheduled hearing date.
(c) Failure to appear at hearings: default. Any respondent named in an order instituting proceedings as a person against whom findings may be made or penalties imposed who fails to appear (in person or through a representative) at a hearing of which he or she has been duly notified may be deemed to be in default pursuant to § 501.716(a). Without further proceedings or notice to the respondent, the Administrative Law Judge may enter a finding that the right to a hearing was waived, and the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action as provided in § 501.709(a)(2). A respondent may make a motion to set aside a default pursuant to § 501.726(e).
Failure to appear at hearings: default.
Any respondent named in an order instituting proceedings as a person against whom findings may be made or penalties imposed who fails to appear (in person or through a representative) at a hearing of which he or she has been duly notified may be deemed to be in default pursuant to § 501.716(a). Without further proceedings or notice to the respondent, the Administrative Law Judge may enter a finding that the right to a hearing was waived, and the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action as provided in § 501.709(a)(2). A respondent may make a motion to set aside a default pursuant to § 501.726(e).

§ 501.716   Default.

(a) A party to a proceeding may be deemed to be in default and the Administrative Law Judge (or the Secretary's designee during review proceedings) may determine the proceeding against that party upon consideration of the record if that party fails:
(1) To appear, in person or through a representative, at any hearing or conference of which the party has been notified;
(2) To answer, to respond to a dispositive motion within the time provided, or otherwise to prosecute or defend the proceeding; or
(3) To cure a deficient filing within the time specified by the Administrative Law Judge (or the Secretary's designee) pursuant to § 501.729(b).
(b) In deciding whether to determine the proceedings against a party deemed to be in default, the Administrative Law Judge shall consider the record of the proceedings (including the Order Instituting Proceedings) and shall construe contested matters of fact and law against the party deemed to be in default.
(c) For information and procedures pertaining to a motion to set aside a default, see § 501.726(e).

§ 501.717   Consolidation of proceedings.

By order of the Administrative Law Judge, proceedings involving common questions of law and fact may be consolidated for hearing of any or all the matters at issue in such proceedings. The Administrative Law Judge may make such orders concerning the conduct of such proceedings as he or she deems appropriate to avoid unnecessary cost or delay. Consolidation shall not prejudice any rights under this subpart and shall not affect the right of any party to raise issues that could have been raised if consolidation had not occurred.

§ 501.718   Conduct and order of hearings.

All hearings shall be conducted in a fair, impartial, expeditious and orderly manner. Each party has the right to present its case or defense by oral and documentary evidence and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for full disclosure of the relevant facts. The Director shall present his or her case-in-chief first. The Director shall be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's closing statement.

§ 501.719   Ex parte communications.

(a) Prohibition. (1) From the time the Director issues an Order Instituting Proceedings until the date of final decision, no party, interested person, or representative thereof shall knowingly make or cause to be made an ex parte communication.
Prohibition.
(1) From the time the Director issues an Order Instituting Proceedings until the date of final decision, no party, interested person, or representative thereof shall knowingly make or cause to be made an ex parte communication.
(2) Except to the extent required for the disposition of ex parte communication matters as authorized by law, the Secretary's designee and the Administrative Law Judge presiding over any proceeding may not:
(i) Consult a person or party on an issue, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate; or
(ii) Be responsible to or subject to the supervision, direction of, or evaluation by, an employee engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecutorial functions for the Department.
(b) Procedure upon occurrence of ex parte communication. If an ex parte communication is received by the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, shall cause all of such written communication (or, if the communication is oral, a memorandum stating the substance of the communication) to be placed on the record of the proceeding and served on all parties. A party may, not later than 10 days after the date of service, file a response thereto and may recommend that the person making the prohibited communication be sanctioned pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Sanctions. Any party to the proceeding, a party's representative, or any other interested individual, who makes a prohibited ex parte communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanction or sanctions imposed by the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, for good cause shown, including, but not limited to, exclusion from the hearing and an adverse ruling on the issue that is the subject of the prohibited communication.
Sanctions.
Any party to the proceeding, a party's representative, or any other interested individual, who makes a prohibited ex parte communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanction or sanctions imposed by the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, for good cause shown, including, but not limited to, exclusion from the hearing and an adverse ruling on the issue that is the subject of the prohibited communication.

§ 501.720   Separation of functions.

Any officer or employee engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecutorial functions for the Department in a proceeding as defined in § 501.702 may not, in that proceeding or one that is factually related, participate or advise in the decision pursuant to Section 557 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 557, except as a witness or counsel in the proceeding.

§ 501.721   Hearings to be public.

All hearings, except hearings on applications for confidential treatment filed pursuant to § 501.725(b), shall be public unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, on his or her own motion or the motion of a party.

§ 501.722   Prehearing conferences.

(a) Purposes of conferences. The purposes of prehearing conferences include, but are not limited to:
Purposes of conferences.
The purposes of prehearing conferences include, but are not limited to:
(1) Expediting the disposition of the proceeding;
(2) Establishing early and continuing control of the proceeding by the Administrative Law Judge; and
(3) Improving the quality of the hearing through more thorough preparation.
(b) Procedure. On his or her own motion or at the request of a party, the Administrative Law Judge may direct a representative or any party to attend one or more prehearing conferences. Such conferences may be held with or without the Administrative Law Judge present as the Administrative Law Judge deems appropriate. Where such a conference is held outside the presence of the Administrative Law Judge, the Administrative Law Judge shall be advised promptly by the parties of any agreements reached. Such conferences also may be held with one or more persons participating by telephone or other remote means.
Procedure.
On his or her own motion or at the request of a party, the Administrative Law Judge may direct a representative or any party to attend one or more prehearing conferences. Such conferences may be held with or without the Administrative Law Judge present as the Administrative Law Judge deems appropriate. Where such a conference is held outside the presence of the Administrative Law Judge, the Administrative Law Judge shall be advised promptly by the parties of any agreements reached. Such conferences also may be held with one or more persons participating by telephone or other remote means.
(c) Subjects to be discussed. At a prehearing conference consideration may be given and action taken with respect to the following:
Subjects to be discussed.
At a prehearing conference consideration may be given and action taken with respect to the following:
(1) Simplification and clarification of the issues;
(2) Exchange of witness and exhibit lists and copies of exhibits;
(3) Admissions of fact and stipulations concerning the contents, authenticity, or admissibility into evidence of documents;
(4) Matters of which official notice may be taken;
(5) The schedule for exchanging prehearing motions or briefs, if any;
(6) The method of service for papers;
(7) Summary disposition of any or all issues;
(8) Settlement of any or all issues;
(9) Determination of hearing dates (when the Administrative Law Judge is present);
(10) Amendments to the Order Instituting Proceedings or answers thereto;
(11) Production of documents as set forth in § 501.723, and prehearing production of documents in response to subpoenas duces tecum as set forth in § 501.728; and
(12) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly and expeditious disposition of the proceeding.
(d) Timing of conferences. Unless the Administrative Law Judge orders otherwise, an initial prehearing conference shall be held not later than 14 days after service of an answer. A final conference, if any, should be held as close to the start of the hearing as reasonable under the circumstances.
Timing of conferences.
Unless the Administrative Law Judge orders otherwise, an initial prehearing conference shall be held not later than 14 days after service of an answer. A final conference, if any, should be held as close to the start of the hearing as reasonable under the circumstances.
(e) Prehearing orders. At or following the conclusion of any conference held pursuant to this rule, the Administrative Law Judge shall enter written rulings or orders that recite the agreement(s) reached and any procedural determinations made by the Administrative Law Judge.
Prehearing orders.
At or following the conclusion of any conference held pursuant to this rule, the Administrative Law Judge shall enter written rulings or orders that recite the agreement(s) reached and any procedural determinations made by the Administrative Law Judge.
(f) Failure to appear: default. A respondent who fails to appear, in person or through a representative, at a prehearing conference of which he or she has been duly notified may be deemed in default pursuant to § 501.716(a). A respondent may make a motion to set aside a default pursuant to § 501.726(e).
Failure to appear: default.
A respondent who fails to appear, in person or through a representative, at a prehearing conference of which he or she has been duly notified may be deemed in default pursuant to § 501.716(a). A respondent may make a motion to set aside a default pursuant to § 501.726(e).

§ 501.723   Prehearing disclosures; methods to discover additional matter.

(a) Initial disclosures. (1) Except to the extent otherwise stipulated or directed by order of the Administrative Law Judge, a party shall, without awaiting a discovery request, provide to the opposing party:
Initial disclosures.
(1) Except to the extent otherwise stipulated or directed by order of the Administrative Law Judge, a party shall, without awaiting a discovery request, provide to the opposing party:
(i) The name and, if known, the address and telephone number of each individual likely to have discoverable information that the disclosing party may use to support its claims or defenses, unless solely for impeachment of a witness appearing in person or by deposition, identifying the subjects of the information; and
(ii) A copy, or a description by category and location, of all documents, data compilations, and tangible things that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party and that the disclosing party may use to support its claims or defenses, unless solely for impeachment of a witness appearing in person or by deposition;
(2) The disclosures described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section shall be made not later than 30 days after the issuance of an Order Instituting Proceedings, unless a different time is set by stipulation or by order of the Administrative Law Judge.
(b) Prehearing disclosures. (1) In addition to the disclosures required by paragraph (a) of this section, a party must provide to the opposing party, and promptly file with the Administrative Law Judge, the following information regarding the evidence that it may present at hearing for any purpose other than solely for impeachment of a witness appearing in person or by deposition:
Prehearing disclosures.
(1) In addition to the disclosures required by paragraph (a) of this section, a party must provide to the opposing party, and promptly file with the Administrative Law Judge, the following information regarding the evidence that it may present at hearing for any purpose other than solely for impeachment of a witness appearing in person or by deposition:
(i) An outline or narrative summary of its case or defense (the Order Instituting Proceedings will usually satisfy this requirement for the Director and the answer thereto will usually satisfy this requirement for the respondent);
(ii) The legal theories upon which it will rely;
(iii) Copies and a list of documents or exhibits that it intends to introduce at the hearing; and
(iv) A list identifying each witness who will testify on its behalf, including the witness's name, occupation, address, phone number, and a brief summary of the expected testimony.
(2) Unless otherwise directed by the Administrative Law Judge, the disclosures required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be made not later than 30 days before the date of the hearing.
(c) Disclosure of expert testimony. A party who intends to call an expert witness shall submit, in addition to the information required by paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, a statement of the expert's qualifications, a list of other proceedings in which the expert has given expert testimony, and a list of publications authored or co-authored by the expert.
Disclosure of expert testimony.
A party who intends to call an expert witness shall submit, in addition to the information required by paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, a statement of the expert's qualifications, a list of other proceedings in which the expert has given expert testimony, and a list of publications authored or co-authored by the expert.
(d) Form of disclosures. Unless the Administrative Law Judge orders otherwise, all disclosures under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be made in writing, signed, and served as provided in § 501.705.
Form of disclosures.
Unless the Administrative Law Judge orders otherwise, all disclosures under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be made in writing, signed, and served as provided in § 501.705.
(e) Methods to discover additional matter. Parties may obtain discovery by one or more of the following methods: Depositions of witnesses upon oral examination or written questions; written interrogatories to another party; production of documents or other evidence for inspection; and requests for admission. All depositions of Federal employees must take place in Washington, DC, at the Department of the Treasury or at the location where the Federal employee to be deposed performs his or her duties, whichever the Federal employee's supervisor or the Office of Chief Counsel shall deem appropriate. All depositions shall be held at a date and time agreed by the Office of Chief Counsel and the respondent or respondent's representative, and for an agreed length of time.
Methods to discover additional matter.
Parties may obtain discovery by one or more of the following methods: Depositions of witnesses upon oral examination or written questions; written interrogatories to another party; production of documents or other evidence for inspection; and requests for admission. All depositions of Federal employees must take place in Washington, DC, at the Department of the Treasury or at the location where the Federal employee to be deposed performs his or her duties, whichever the Federal employee's supervisor or the Office of Chief Counsel shall deem appropriate. All depositions shall be held at a date and time agreed by the Office of Chief Counsel and the respondent or respondent's representative, and for an agreed length of time.
(f) Discovery scope and limits. Unless otherwise limited by order of the Administrative Law Judge in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the scope of discovery is as follows:
Discovery scope and limits.
Unless otherwise limited by order of the Administrative Law Judge in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the scope of discovery is as follows:
(1) In general. The availability of information and documents through discovery is subject to the assertion of privileges available to the parties and witnesses. Privileges available to the Director and the Department include exemptions afforded pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) through (9)) and the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a). Parties may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the merits of the pending action, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any books, documents, or other tangible things and the identity and location of any persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter. For good cause, the Administrative Law Judge may order discovery of any matter relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding. Relevant information need not be admissible at the hearing if the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
In general.
The availability of information and documents through discovery is subject to the assertion of privileges available to the parties and witnesses. Privileges available to the Director and the Department include exemptions afforded pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) through (9)) and the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a). Parties may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the merits of the pending action, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any books, documents, or other tangible things and the identity and location of any persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter. For good cause, the Administrative Law Judge may order discovery of any matter relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding. Relevant information need not be admissible at the hearing if the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(2) Limitations. The Administrative Law Judge may issue any order that justice requires to ensure that discovery requests are not unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope or unduly burdensome, including an order to show cause why a particular discovery request is justified upon motion of the objecting party. The frequency or extent of use of the discovery methods otherwise permitted under this section may be limited by the Administrative Law Judge if he or she determines that:
Limitations.
The Administrative Law Judge may issue any order that justice requires to ensure that discovery requests are not unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope or unduly burdensome, including an order to show cause why a particular discovery request is justified upon motion of the objecting party. The frequency or extent of use of the discovery methods otherwise permitted under this section may be limited by the Administrative Law Judge if he or she determines that:
(i) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive;
(ii) The party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the action to obtain the information sought; or
(iii) The burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit, taking into account the needs of the hearing, the importance of the issues at stake, and the importance of the proposed discovery in resolving the issues.
(3) Interrogatories. Respondent's interrogatories shall be served upon the Office of the Chief Counsel not later than 30 days after issuance of the Order Instituting Proceedings. The Director's interrogatories shall be served by the later of 30 days after the receipt of service of respondent's interrogatories or 40 days after issuance of the Order Instituting Proceedings if no interrogatories are filed by respondent. Parties shall respond to interrogatories not later than 30 days after the date interrogatories are received. Interrogatories shall be limited to 20 questions only. Each subpart, section, or other designation of a part of a question shall be counted as one complete question in computing the permitted 20 question total. Where more than 20 questions are served upon a party, the receiving party may determine which of the 20 questions the receiving party shall answer. The limitation on the number of questions in an interrogatory may be waived by the Administrative Law Judge.
Interrogatories.
Respondent's interrogatories shall be served upon the Office of the Chief Counsel not later than 30 days after issuance of the Order Instituting Proceedings. The Director's interrogatories shall be served by the later of 30 days after the receipt of service of respondent's interrogatories or 40 days after issuance of the Order Instituting Proceedings if no interrogatories are filed by respondent. Parties shall respond to interrogatories not later than 30 days after the date interrogatories are received. Interrogatories shall be limited to 20 questions only. Each subpart, section, or other designation of a part of a question shall be counted as one complete question in computing the permitted 20 question total. Where more than 20 questions are served upon a party, the receiving party may determine which of the 20 questions the receiving party shall answer. The limitation on the number of questions in an interrogatory may be waived by the Administrative Law Judge.
(4) Privileged matter. Privileged documents are not discoverable. Privileges include, but are not limited to, the attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative-process or classified information privilege, including materials classified pursuant to Executive Order 12958 (3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 333) and any future Executive orders that may be issued relating to the treatment of national security information, and all materials and information exempted from release to the public pursuant to the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) or the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) through (9)).
Privileged matter.
Privileged documents are not discoverable. Privileges include, but are not limited to, the attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative-process or classified information privilege, including materials classified pursuant to Executive Order 12958 (3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 333) and any future Executive orders that may be issued relating to the treatment of national security information, and all materials and information exempted from release to the public pursuant to the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) or the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) through (9)).
(g) Updating discovery. A party who has made an initial disclosure under paragraph (a) of this section or responded to a request for discovery with a disclosure or response is under a duty to supplement or correct the disclosure or response to include information thereafter acquired whenever:
Updating discovery.
A party who has made an initial disclosure under paragraph (a) of this section or responded to a request for discovery with a disclosure or response is under a duty to supplement or correct the disclosure or response to include information thereafter acquired whenever:
(1) The party learns that in some material respect the information disclosed is incomplete or incorrect, if the additional or corrective information has not otherwise been made known to the other party during the discovery process or in writing; or
(2) Ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. The Administrative Law Judge may impose sanctions for failure to supplement or correct discovery.
(h) Time limits. All discovery, including all responses to discovery requests, shall be completed not later than 20 days prior to the date scheduled for the commencement of the hearing, unless the Administrative Law Judge finds on the record that good cause exists to grant additional time to complete discovery.
Time limits.
All discovery, including all responses to discovery requests, shall be completed not later than 20 days prior to the date scheduled for the commencement of the hearing, unless the Administrative Law Judge finds on the record that good cause exists to grant additional time to complete discovery.
(i) Effect of failure to comply. No witness may testify and no document or exhibit may be introduced at the hearing if such witness, document, or exhibit is not listed in the prehearing submissions pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, except for good cause shown.
Effect of failure to comply.
No witness may testify and no document or exhibit may be introduced at the hearing if such witness, document, or exhibit is not listed in the prehearing submissions pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, except for good cause shown.

§ 501.724   Documents that may be withheld.

(a) Notwithstanding § 501.723(f), the Director or respondent may withhold a document if:
(1) The document is privileged;
(2) The document would disclose the identity of a confidential source; or
(3) The Administrative Law Judge grants leave to withhold a document or category of documents as not relevant to the subject matter of the proceeding or otherwise, for good cause shown.
(b) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the Director to withhold documents that contain material exculpatory evidence.
(c) Withheld document list. The Director and respondent shall provide the Administrative Law Judge, for review, a list of documents withheld pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)-(3) of this section. The Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether any such document should be made available for inspection and copying.
Withheld document list.
The Director and respondent shall provide the Administrative Law Judge, for review, a list of documents withheld pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)-(3) of this section. The Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether any such document should be made available for inspection and copying.

§ 501.725   Confidential treatment of information in certain filings.

(a) Filing document under seal. (1) The Director may file any document or any part of a document under seal and/or seek a protective order concerning any document if disclosure of the document would be inconsistent with the protection of the public interest or if justice requires protection of any person, including a source or a party, from annoyance, threat, oppression, or undue burden or expense, or the disclosure of the information would be, or might reasonably lead to a disclosure, contrary to Executive Order 12958, as amended by Executive Order 13292, or other Executive orders concerning disclosure of information, Department regulations, or the Privacy Act, or information exempt from release under the Freedom of Information Act. The Administrative Law Judge shall allow placement of any such document under seal and/or grant a protective order upon a showing that the disclosure would be inconsistent with any such statute or Executive order, or that the harm resulting from disclosure would outweigh the benefits of disclosure.
Filing document under seal.
(1) The Director may file any document or any part of a document under seal and/or seek a protective order concerning any document if disclosure of the document would be inconsistent with the protection of the public interest or if justice requires protection of any person, including a source or a party, from annoyance, threat, oppression, or undue burden or expense, or the disclosure of the information would be, or might reasonably lead to a disclosure, contrary to Executive Order 12958, as amended by Executive Order 13292, or other Executive orders concerning disclosure of information, Department regulations, or the Privacy Act, or information exempt from release under the Freedom of Information Act. The Administrative Law Judge shall allow placement of any such document under seal and/or grant a protective order upon a showing that the disclosure would be inconsistent with any such statute or Executive order, or that the harm resulting from disclosure would outweigh the benefits of disclosure.
(2) A respondent may file any document or any part of a document under seal and/or seek a protective order to limit such document from disclosure to other parties or to the public. The Administrative Law Judge shall allow placement of any document under seal and/or grant a protective order upon a showing that the harm resulting from disclosure would outweigh the benefits of disclosure.
(3) The Administrative Law Judge shall safeguard the security and integrity of any documents under seal or protective order and shall take all appropriate steps to preserve the confidentiality of such documents or any parts thereof, including closing a hearing or portions of a hearing to the public. Release of any information under seal or to the extent inconsistent with a protective order, in any form or manner, is subject to the sanctions and the exercise of the authorities as are provided with respect to ex parte communications under § 501.719.
(4) If the Administrative Law Judge denies placement of any document under seal or under protective order, any party, and any person whose document or material is at issue, may obtain interlocutory review by the Secretary's designee. In such cases the Administrative Law Judge shall not release or expose any of the records or documents in question to the public or to any person for a period of 20 days from the date of the Administrative Law Judge's ruling, in order to permit a party the opportunity either to withdraw the records and documents or obtain interlocutory review by the Secretary's designee and an order that the records be placed under seal or a protective order.
(5) Upon settlement, final decision, or motion to the Administrative Law Judge for good cause shown, all materials (including all copies) under seal or protective order shall be returned to the submitting parties, except when it may be necessary to retain a record until any judicial process is completed.
(6)(i) Written notice of each request for release of documents or materials under seal or subject to a protective order shall be given to the parties at least 20 days prior to any permitted release or prior to any access not specifically authorized under a protective order. A copy of each request for information, including the name, address, and telephone number of the requester, shall be provided to the parties.
(ii) Each request for access to protected material shall include the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons on whose behalf the requester seeks access to protected information. The Administrative Law Judge may impose sanctions as provided under § 501.729 for failure to provide this information.
(b) Application. An application for a protective order or to place under seal shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. The application shall be accompanied by a sealed copy of the materials as to which confidential treatment is sought.
Application.
An application for a protective order or to place under seal shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. The application shall be accompanied by a sealed copy of the materials as to which confidential treatment is sought.
(1) Procedure for supplying additional information. The person making the application may be required to furnish in writing additional information with respect to the grounds for objection to public disclosure. Failure to supply the information so requested within 14 days from the date of receipt of a notice of the information required shall be deemed a waiver of the objection to public disclosure of that portion of the information to which the additional information relates, unless the Administrative Law Judge shall otherwise order for good cause shown at or before the expiration of such 14-day period.
Procedure for supplying additional information.
The person making the application may be required to furnish in writing additional information with respect to the grounds for objection to public disclosure. Failure to supply the information so requested within 14 days from the date of receipt of a notice of the information required shall be deemed a waiver of the objection to public disclosure of that portion of the information to which the additional information relates, unless the Administrative Law Judge shall otherwise order for good cause shown at or before the expiration of such 14-day period.
(2) Confidentiality of materials pending final decision. Pending the determination of the application for confidential treatment, transcripts, non-final orders including an initial decision, if any, and other materials in connection with the application shall be placed under seal; shall be for the confidential use only of the Administrative Law Judge, the Secretary's designee, the applicant, the Director, and any other respondent and representative; and shall be made available to the public only in accordance with orders of the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee.
Confidentiality of materials pending final decision.
Pending the determination of the application for confidential treatment, transcripts, non-final orders including an initial decision, if any, and other materials in connection with the application shall be placed under seal; shall be for the confidential use only of the Administrative Law Judge, the Secretary's designee, the applicant, the Director, and any other respondent and representative; and shall be made available to the public only in accordance with orders of the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee.
(3) Public availability of orders. Any final order of the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee denying or sustaining an application for confidential treatment shall be made public. Any prior findings or opinions relating to an application for confidential treatment under this section shall be made public at such time as the material as to which confidentiality was requested is made public.
Public availability of orders.
Any final order of the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee denying or sustaining an application for confidential treatment shall be made public. Any prior findings or opinions relating to an application for confidential treatment under this section shall be made public at such time as the material as to which confidentiality was requested is made public.

§ 501.726   Motions.

(a) Generally. Unless made during a hearing or conference, a motion shall be in writing, shall state with particularity the grounds therefor, shall set forth the relief or order sought, and shall be accompanied by a written brief of the points and authorities relied upon. Motions by a respondent must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge and served upon the Director through the Office of Chief Counsel and with any other party respondent or respondent's representative, unless otherwise directed by the Administrative Law Judge. Motions by the Director must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge and served upon each party respondent or respondent's representative. All written motions must be served in accordance with, and otherwise meet the requirements of, § 501.705. The Administrative Law Judge may order that an oral motion be submitted in writing. No oral argument shall be heard on any motion unless the Administrative Law Judge otherwise directs.
Generally.
Unless made during a hearing or conference, a motion shall be in writing, shall state with particularity the grounds therefor, shall set forth the relief or order sought, and shall be accompanied by a written brief of the points and authorities relied upon. Motions by a respondent must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge and served upon the Director through the Office of Chief Counsel and with any other party respondent or respondent's representative, unless otherwise directed by the Administrative Law Judge. Motions by the Director must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge and served upon each party respondent or respondent's representative. All written motions must be served in accordance with, and otherwise meet the requirements of, § 501.705. The Administrative Law Judge may order that an oral motion be submitted in writing. No oral argument shall be heard on any motion unless the Administrative Law Judge otherwise directs.
(b) Opposing and reply briefs. Except as provided in § 501.741(e), briefs in opposition to a motion shall be filed not later than 15 days after service of the motion. Reply briefs shall be filed not later than 3 days after service of the opposition. The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record shall be deemed a waiver of objection by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of any proposed order accompanying the motion.
Opposing and reply briefs.
Except as provided in § 501.741(e), briefs in opposition to a motion shall be filed not later than 15 days after service of the motion. Reply briefs shall be filed not later than 3 days after service of the opposition. The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record shall be deemed a waiver of objection by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of any proposed order accompanying the motion.
(c) Dilatory motions. Frivolous, dilatory, or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.
Dilatory motions.
Frivolous, dilatory, or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.
(d) Length limitation. Except as otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, a brief in support of, or in opposition to, a motion shall not exceed 15 pages, exclusive of pages containing any table of contents, table of authorities, or addendum.
Length limitation.
Except as otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, a brief in support of, or in opposition to, a motion shall not exceed 15 pages, exclusive of pages containing any table of contents, table of authorities, or addendum.
(e) A motion to set aside a default shall be made within a reasonable time as determined by the Administrative Law Judge, state the reasons for the failure to appear or defend, and, if applicable, specify the nature of the proposed defense in the proceeding. In order to prevent injustice and on such conditions as may be appropriate, the Administrative Law Judge, at any time prior to the filing of his or her decision, or the Secretary's designee, at any time during the review process, may for good cause shown set aside a default.

§ 501.727   Motion for summary disposition.

(a) At any time after a respondent's answer has been filed, the respondent or the Director may make a motion for summary disposition of any or all allegations contained in the Order Instituting Proceedings. If the Director has not completed presentation of his or her case-in-chief, a motion for summary disposition shall be made only with permission of the Administrative Law Judge. The facts of the pleadings of the party against whom the motion is made shall be taken as true, except as modified by stipulations or admissions made by that party, by uncontested affidavits, or by facts officially noticed pursuant to § 501.732(b).
(b) Decision on motion. The Administrative Law Judge may promptly decide the motion for summary disposition or may defer decision on the motion. The Administrative Law Judge shall issue an order granting a motion for summary disposition if the record shows there is no genuine issue with regard to any material fact and the party making the motion is entitled to a summary disposition as a matter of law.
Decision on motion.
The Administrative Law Judge may promptly decide the motion for summary disposition or may defer decision on the motion. The Administrative Law Judge shall issue an order granting a motion for summary disposition if the record shows there is no genuine issue with regard to any material fact and the party making the motion is entitled to a summary disposition as a matter of law.
(c) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, transcripts, affidavits, and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support its position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the moving party's arguments. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which such party contends a genuine dispute exists. The opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as that submitted with the motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.

§ 501.728   Subpoenas.

(a) Availability; procedure. In connection with any hearing before an Administrative Law Judge, either the respondent or the Director may request the issuance of subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses at the designated time and place of hearing, and subpoenas requiring the production of documentary or other tangible evidence returnable at a designated time and place. Unless made on the record at a hearing, requests for issuance of a subpoena shall be made in writing and served on each party pursuant to § 501.705.
Availability; procedure.
In connection with any hearing before an Administrative Law Judge, either the respondent or the Director may request the issuance of subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses at the designated time and place of hearing, and subpoenas requiring the production of documentary or other tangible evidence returnable at a designated time and place. Unless made on the record at a hearing, requests for issuance of a subpoena shall be made in writing and served on each party pursuant to § 501.705.
(b) Standards for issuance. If it appears to the Administrative Law Judge that a subpoena sought may be unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may, in his or her discretion, as a condition precedent to the issuance of the subpoena, require the person seeking the subpoena to show the general relevance and reasonable scope of the testimony or other evidence sought. If after consideration of all the circumstances, the Administrative Law Judge determines that the subpoena or any of its terms is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the subpoena, or issue a modified subpoena as fairness requires. In making the foregoing determination, the Administrative Law Judge may inquire of the other participants whether they will stipulate to the facts sought to be proved.
Standards for issuance.
If it appears to the Administrative Law Judge that a subpoena sought may be unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may, in his or her discretion, as a condition precedent to the issuance of the subpoena, require the person seeking the subpoena to show the general relevance and reasonable scope of the testimony or other evidence sought. If after consideration of all the circumstances, the Administrative Law Judge determines that the subpoena or any of its terms is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the subpoena, or issue a modified subpoena as fairness requires. In making the foregoing determination, the Administrative Law Judge may inquire of the other participants whether they will stipulate to the facts sought to be proved.
(c) Service. Service of a subpoena shall be made pursuant to the provisions of § 501.705.
Service.
Service of a subpoena shall be made pursuant to the provisions of § 501.705.
(d) Application to quash or modify—(1) Procedure. Any person to whom a subpoena is directed or who is an owner, creator or the subject of the documents or materials that are to be produced pursuant to a subpoena may, prior to the time specified therein for compliance, but not later than 15 days after the date of service of such subpoena, request that the subpoena be quashed or modified. Such request shall be made by application filed with the Administrative Law Judge and served on all parties pursuant to § 501.705. The party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued may, not later than 5 days after service of the application, file an opposition to the application.
Application to quash or modify
—(1)
Procedure.
Any person to whom a subpoena is directed or who is an owner, creator or the subject of the documents or materials that are to be produced pursuant to a subpoena may, prior to the time specified therein for compliance, but not later than 15 days after the date of service of such subpoena, request that the subpoena be quashed or modified. Such request shall be made by application filed with the Administrative Law Judge and served on all parties pursuant to § 501.705. The party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued may, not later than 5 days after service of the application, file an opposition to the application.
(2) Standards governing application to quash or modify. If the Administrative Law Judge determines that compliance with the subpoena would be unreasonable, oppressive or unduly burdensome, the Administrative Law Judge may quash or modify the subpoena, or may order return of the subpoena only upon specified conditions. These conditions may include, but are not limited to, a requirement that the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued shall make reasonable compensation to the person to whom the subpoena was addressed for the cost of copying or transporting evidence to the place for return of the subpoena.
Standards governing application to quash or modify.
If the Administrative Law Judge determines that compliance with the subpoena would be unreasonable, oppressive or unduly burdensome, the Administrative Law Judge may quash or modify the subpoena, or may order return of the subpoena only upon specified conditions. These conditions may include, but are not limited to, a requirement that the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued shall make reasonable compensation to the person to whom the subpoena was addressed for the cost of copying or transporting evidence to the place for return of the subpoena.
(e) Witness fees and mileage. Witnesses summoned to appear at a proceeding shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid to witnesses in the courts of the United States, and witnesses whose depositions are taken and the persons taking the same shall severally be entitled to the same fees as are paid for like services in the courts of the United States. Witness fees and mileage shall be paid by the party at whose instance the witnesses appear.
Witness fees and mileage.
Witnesses summoned to appear at a proceeding shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid to witnesses in the courts of the United States, and witnesses whose depositions are taken and the persons taking the same shall severally be entitled to the same fees as are paid for like services in the courts of the United States. Witness fees and mileage shall be paid by the party at whose instance the witnesses appear.

§ 501.729   Sanctions.

(a) Contemptuous conduct—(1) Subject to exclusion or suspension. Contemptuous conduct by any person before an Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee during any proceeding, including any conference, shall be grounds for the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee to:
Contemptuous conduct
—(1)
Subject to exclusion or suspension.
Contemptuous conduct by any person before an Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee during any proceeding, including any conference, shall be grounds for the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee to:
(i) Exclude that person from such hearing or conference, or any portion thereof; and/or
(ii) If a representative, summarily suspend that person from representing others in the proceeding in which such conduct occurred for the duration, or any portion, of the proceeding.
(2) Adjournment. Upon motion by a party represented by a representative subject to an order of exclusion or suspension, an adjournment shall be granted to allow the retention of a new representative. In determining the length of an adjournment, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee shall consider, in addition to the factors set forth in § 501.737, the availability of another representative for the party or, if the representative was a counsel, of other members of a suspended counsel's firm.
Adjournment.
Upon motion by a party represented by a representative subject to an order of exclusion or suspension, an adjournment shall be granted to allow the retention of a new representative. In determining the length of an adjournment, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee shall consider, in addition to the factors set forth in § 501.737, the availability of another representative for the party or, if the representative was a counsel, of other members of a suspended counsel's firm.
(b) Deficient filings; leave to cure deficiencies. The Administrative Law Judge, or the Secretary's designee in the case of a request for review, may in his or her discretion, reject, in whole or in part, any filing that fails to comply with any requirements of this subpart or of any order issued in the proceeding in which the filing was made. Any such filings shall not be part of the record. The Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee may direct a party to cure any deficiencies and to resubmit the filing within a fixed time period.
Deficient filings; leave to cure deficiencies.
The Administrative Law Judge, or the Secretary's designee in the case of a request for review, may in his or her discretion, reject, in whole or in part, any filing that fails to comply with any requirements of this subpart or of any order issued in the proceeding in which the filing was made. Any such filings shall not be part of the record. The Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee may direct a party to cure any deficiencies and to resubmit the filing within a fixed time period.
(c) Failure to make required filing or to cure deficient filing. The Administrative Law Judge (or the Secretary's designee during review proceedings) may enter a default pursuant to § 501.716, dismiss the case, decide the particular matter at issue against that person, or prohibit the introduction of evidence or exclude testimony concerning that matter if a person fails:
Failure to make required filing or to cure deficient filing.
The Administrative Law Judge (or the Secretary's designee during review proceedings) may enter a default pursuant to § 501.716, dismiss the case, decide the particular matter at issue against that person, or prohibit the introduction of evidence or exclude testimony concerning that matter if a person fails:
(1) To make a filing required under this subpart; or
(2) To cure a deficient filing within the time specified by the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Failure to make required filing or to cure deficient filing in the case of a request for review. The Secretary's designee, in any case of a request for review, may decide the issue against that person, or prohibit the introduction of evidence or exclude testimony concerning that matter if a person fails:
Failure to make required filing or to cure deficient filing in the case of a request for review.
The Secretary's designee, in any case of a request for review, may decide the issue against that person, or prohibit the introduction of evidence or exclude testimony concerning that matter if a person fails:
(1) To make a filing required under this subpart; or
(2) To cure a deficient filing within the time specified by the Secretary's designee pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

§ 501.730   Depositions upon oral examination.

(a) Procedure. Any party desiring to take the testimony of a witness by deposition shall make a written motion setting forth the reasons why such deposition should be taken including the specific reasons why the party believes the witness may be unable to attend or testify at the hearing; the name and address of the prospective witness; the matters concerning which the prospective witness is expected to be questioned; and the proposed time and place for the taking of the deposition.
Procedure.
Any party desiring to take the testimony of a witness by deposition shall make a written motion setting forth the reasons why such deposition should be taken including the specific reasons why the party believes the witness may be unable to attend or testify at the hearing; the name and address of the prospective witness; the matters concerning which the prospective witness is expected to be questioned; and the proposed time and place for the taking of the deposition.
(b) Required finding when ordering a deposition. In the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, an order for deposition may be issued upon a finding that the prospective witness will likely give testimony material to the proceeding, that it is likely the prospective witness will be unable to attend or testify at the hearing because of age, sickness, infirmity, imprisonment or other disability, and that the taking of a deposition will serve the interests of justice.
Required finding when ordering a deposition.
In the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, an order for deposition may be issued upon a finding that the prospective witness will likely give testimony material to the proceeding, that it is likely the prospective witness will be unable to attend or testify at the hearing because of age, sickness, infirmity, imprisonment or other disability, and that the taking of a deposition will serve the interests of justice.
(c) Contents of order. An order for deposition shall designate by name a deposition officer. The designated officer may be the Administrative Law Judge or any other person authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the deposition is to be held. An order for deposition also shall state:
Contents of order.
An order for deposition shall designate by name a deposition officer. The designated officer may be the Administrative Law Judge or any other person authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the deposition is to be held. An order for deposition also shall state:
(1) The name of the witness whose deposition is to be taken;
(2) The scope of the testimony to be taken;
(3) The time and place of the deposition;
(4) The manner of recording, preserving and filing the deposition; and
(5) The number of copies, if any, of the deposition and exhibits to be filed upon completion of the deposition.
(d) Procedure at depositions. A witness whose testimony is taken by deposition shall swear or affirm before any questions are put to him or her. Examination and cross-examination of witnesses may proceed as permitted at a hearing. A witness being deposed may have counsel or a representative present during the deposition.
Procedure at depositions.
A witness whose testimony is taken by deposition shall swear or affirm before any questions are put to him or her. Examination and cross-examination of witnesses may proceed as permitted at a hearing. A witness being deposed may have counsel or a representative present during the deposition.
(e) Objections to questions or evidence. Objections to questions or evidence shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objection relied upon. Objections to questions or evidence shall be noted by the deposition officer upon the deposition, but a deposition officer (other than an Administrative Law Judge) shall not have the power to decide on the competency, materiality or relevance of evidence. Failure to object to questions or evidence before the deposition officer shall not be deemed a waiver unless the ground of the objection is one that might have been obviated or removed if presented at that time.
Objections to questions or evidence.
Objections to questions or evidence shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objection relied upon. Objections to questions or evidence shall be noted by the deposition officer upon the deposition, but a deposition officer (other than an Administrative Law Judge) shall not have the power to decide on the competency, materiality or relevance of evidence. Failure to object to questions or evidence before the deposition officer shall not be deemed a waiver unless the ground of the objection is one that might have been obviated or removed if presented at that time.
(f) Filing of depositions. The questions asked and all answers or objections shall be recorded or transcribed verbatim, and a transcript shall be prepared by the deposition officer, or under his or her direction. The transcript shall be subscribed by the witness and certified by the deposition officer. The original deposition transcript and exhibits shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. A copy of the deposition transcript and exhibits shall be served on the opposing party or parties. The cost of the transcript (including copies) shall be paid by the party requesting the deposition.
Filing of depositions.
The questions asked and all answers or objections shall be recorded or transcribed verbatim, and a transcript shall be prepared by the deposition officer, or under his or her direction. The transcript shall be subscribed by the witness and certified by the deposition officer. The original deposition transcript and exhibits shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. A copy of the deposition transcript and exhibits shall be served on the opposing party or parties. The cost of the transcript (including copies) shall be paid by the party requesting the deposition.

§ 501.731   Depositions upon written questions.

(a) Availability. Depositions may be taken and submitted on written questions upon motion of any party. The motion shall include the information specified in § 501.730(a). A decision on the motion shall be governed by § 501.730(b).
Availability.
Depositions may be taken and submitted on written questions upon motion of any party. The motion shall include the information specified in § 501.730(a). A decision on the motion shall be governed by § 501.730(b).
(b) Procedure. Written questions shall be filed with the motion. Not later than 10 days after service of the motion and written questions, any party may file objections to such written questions and any party may file cross-questions. When a deposition is taken pursuant to this section no persons other than the witness, representative or counsel to the witness, the deposition officer, and, if the deposition officer does not act as reporter, a reporter, shall be present at the examination of the witness. No party shall be present or represented unless otherwise permitted by order. The deposition officer shall propound the questions and cross-questions to the witness in the order submitted.
Procedure.
Written questions shall be filed with the motion. Not later than 10 days after service of the motion and written questions, any party may file objections to such written questions and any party may file cross-questions. When a deposition is taken pursuant to this section no persons other than the witness, representative or counsel to the witness, the deposition officer, and, if the deposition officer does not act as reporter, a reporter, shall be present at the examination of the witness. No party shall be present or represented unless otherwise permitted by order. The deposition officer shall propound the questions and cross-questions to the witness in the order submitted.
(c) Additional requirements. The order for deposition, filing of the deposition, form of the deposition and use of the deposition in the record shall be governed by paragraphs (b) through (g) of § 501.730, except that no cross-examination shall be made.
Additional requirements.
The order for deposition, filing of the deposition, form of the deposition and use of the deposition in the record shall be governed by paragraphs (b) through (g) of § 501.730, except that no cross-examination shall be made.

§ 501.732   Evidence.

The applicable evidentiary standard for proceedings under this subpart is proof by a preponderance of reliable, probative, and substantial evidence. The Administrative Law Judge shall admit any relevant and material oral, documentary, or demonstrative evidence. The Federal Rules of Evidence do not apply, by their own force, to proceedings under this subpart, but shall be employed as general guidelines. The fact that evidence submitted by a party is hearsay goes only to the weight of the evidence and does not affect its admissibility.
(a) Objections and offers of proof—(1) Objections. Objections to the admission or exclusion of evidence must be made on the record and shall be in short form, stating the grounds relied upon. Exceptions to any ruling thereon by the Administrative Law Judge need not be noted at the time of the ruling. Such exceptions will be deemed waived on review by the Secretary's designee, however, unless raised:
Objections and offers of proof
—(1)
Objections.
Objections to the admission or exclusion of evidence must be made on the record and shall be in short form, stating the grounds relied upon. Exceptions to any ruling thereon by the Administrative Law Judge need not be noted at the time of the ruling. Such exceptions will be deemed waived on review by the Secretary's designee, however, unless raised:
(i) Pursuant to interlocutory review in accordance with § 501.741;
(ii) In a proposed finding or conclusion filed pursuant to § 501.738; or
(iii) In a petition for the Secretary's designee's review of an Administrative Law Judge's decision filed in accordance with § 501.741.
(2) Offers of proof. Whenever evidence is excluded from the record, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which shall be included in the record. Excluded material shall be retained pursuant to § 501.739(b).
Offers of proof.
Whenever evidence is excluded from the record, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which shall be included in the record. Excluded material shall be retained pursuant to § 501.739(b).
(b) Official notice. An Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee may take official notice of any material fact that might be judicially noticed by a district court of the United States, any matter in the public official records of the Secretary, or any matter that is particularly within the knowledge of the Department as an expert body. If official notice is requested or taken of a material fact not appearing in the evidence in the record, a party, upon timely request to the Administrative Law Judge, shall be afforded an opportunity to establish the contrary.
Official notice.
An Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee may take official notice of any material fact that might be judicially noticed by a district court of the United States, any matter in the public official records of the Secretary, or any matter that is particularly within the knowledge of the Department as an expert body. If official notice is requested or taken of a material fact not appearing in the evidence in the record, a party, upon timely request to the Administrative Law Judge, shall be afforded an opportunity to establish the contrary.
(c) Stipulations. The parties may, by stipulation, at any stage of the proceeding agree upon any pertinent fact in the proceeding. A stipulation may be received in evidence and, when accepted by the Administrative Law Judge, shall be binding on the parties to the stipulation.
Stipulations.
The parties may, by stipulation, at any stage of the proceeding agree upon any pertinent fact in the proceeding. A stipulation may be received in evidence and, when accepted by the Administrative Law Judge, shall be binding on the parties to the stipulation.
(d) Presentation under oath or affirmation. A witness at a hearing for the purpose of taking evidence shall testify under oath or affirmation.
Presentation under oath or affirmation.
A witness at a hearing for the purpose of taking evidence shall testify under oath or affirmation.
(e) Presentation, rebuttal and cross-examination. A party is entitled to present its case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct such cross-examination as, in the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
Presentation, rebuttal and cross-examination.
A party is entitled to present its case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct such cross-examination as, in the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.

§ 501.733   Evidence: confidential information, protective orders.

(a) Procedure. In any proceeding as defined in § 501.702, a respondent; the Director; any person who is the owner, subject or creator of a document subject to subpoena or which may be introduced as evidence; or any witness who testifies at a hearing may file a motion requesting a protective order to limit from disclosure to other parties or to the public documents or testimony containing confidential information. The motion should include a general summary or extract of the documents without revealing confidential details. If a person seeks a protective order against disclosure to other parties as well as the public, copies of the documents shall not be served on other parties. Unless the documents are unavailable, the person shall file for inspection by the Administrative Law Judge a sealed copy of the documents as to which the order is sought.
Procedure.
In any proceeding as defined in § 501.702, a respondent; the Director; any person who is the owner, subject or creator of a document subject to subpoena or which may be introduced as evidence; or any witness who testifies at a hearing may file a motion requesting a protective order to limit from disclosure to other parties or to the public documents or testimony containing confidential information. The motion should include a general summary or extract of the documents without revealing confidential details. If a person seeks a protective order against disclosure to other parties as well as the public, copies of the documents shall not be served on other parties. Unless the documents are unavailable, the person shall file for inspection by the Administrative Law Judge a sealed copy of the documents as to which the order is sought.
(b) Basis for issuance. Documents and testimony introduced in a public hearing are presumed to be public. A motion for a protective order shall be granted only upon a finding that the harm resulting from disclosure would outweigh the benefits of disclosure.
Basis for issuance.
Documents and testimony introduced in a public hearing are presumed to be public. A motion for a protective order shall be granted only upon a finding that the harm resulting from disclosure would outweigh the benefits of disclosure.
(c) Requests for additional information supporting confidentiality. A person seeking a protective order under paragraph (a) of this section may be required to furnish in writing additional information with respect to the grounds for confidentiality. Failure to supply the information so requested not later than 5 days from the date of receipt by the person of a notice of the information required shall be deemed a waiver of the objection to public disclosure of that portion of the documents to which the additional information relates, unless the Administrative Law Judge shall otherwise order for good cause shown at or before the expiration of such 5-day period.
Requests for additional information supporting confidentiality.
A person seeking a protective order under paragraph (a) of this section may be required to furnish in writing additional information with respect to the grounds for confidentiality. Failure to supply the information so requested not later than 5 days from the date of receipt by the person of a notice of the information required shall be deemed a waiver of the objection to public disclosure of that portion of the documents to which the additional information relates, unless the Administrative Law Judge shall otherwise order for good cause shown at or before the expiration of such 5-day period.
(d) Confidentiality of documents pending decision. Pending a determination of a motion under this section, the documents as to which confidential treatment is sought and any other documents that would reveal the confidential information in those documents shall be maintained under seal and shall be disclosed only in accordance with orders of the Administrative Law Judge. Any order issued in connection with a motion under this section shall be made public unless the order would disclose information as to which a protective order has been granted, in which case that portion of the order that would reveal the protected information shall not be made public.
Confidentiality of documents pending decision.
Pending a determination of a motion under this section, the documents as to which confidential treatment is sought and any other documents that would reveal the confidential information in those documents shall be maintained under seal and shall be disclosed only in accordance with orders of the Administrative Law Judge. Any order issued in connection with a motion under this section shall be made public unless the order would disclose information as to which a protective order has been granted, in which case that portion of the order that would reveal the protected information shall not be made public.

§ 501.734   Introducing prior sworn statements of witnesses into the record.

(a) At a hearing, any person wishing to introduce a prior, sworn statement of a witness who is not a party to the proceeding, that is otherwise admissible in the proceeding, may make a motion setting forth the reasons therefor. If only part of a statement is offered in evidence, the Administrative Law Judge may require that all relevant portions of the statement be introduced. If all of a statement is offered in evidence, the Administrative Law Judge may require that portions not relevant to the proceeding be excluded. A motion to introduce a prior sworn statement may be granted if:
(1) The witness is dead;
(2) The witness is out of the United States, unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party offering the prior sworn statement;
(3) The witness is unable to attend or testify because of age, sickness, infirmity, imprisonment or other disability;
(4) The party offering the prior sworn statement has been unable to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena; or,
(5) In the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, it would be desirable, in the interests of justice, to allow the prior sworn statement to be used. In making this determination, due regard shall be given to the presumption that witnesses will testify orally in an open hearing. If the parties have stipulated to accept a prior sworn statement in lieu of live testimony, consideration shall also be given to the convenience of the parties in avoiding unnecessary expense.

§ 501.735   Proposed findings, conclusions and supporting briefs.

(a) Opportunity to file. Before a decision is issued by the Administrative Law Judge, each party shall have an opportunity, reasonable in light of all the circumstances, to file in writing proposed findings and conclusions.
Opportunity to file.
Before a decision is issued by the Administrative Law Judge, each party shall have an opportunity, reasonable in light of all the circumstances, to file in writing proposed findings and conclusions.
(b) Procedure. Proposed findings of fact must be supported by citations to specific portions of the record. If successive filings are directed, the proposed findings and conclusions of the party assigned to file first shall be set forth in serially numbered paragraphs, and any counter statement of proposed findings and conclusions shall, in addition to any other matter presented, indicate those paragraphs of the proposals already filed as to which there is no dispute. A reply brief may be filed by the party assigned to file first, or, where simultaneous filings are directed, reply briefs may be filed by each party, within the period prescribed therefor by the Administrative Law Judge. No further briefs may be filed except with permission of the Administrative Law Judge.
Procedure.
Proposed findings of fact must be supported by citations to specific portions of the record. If successive filings are directed, the proposed findings and conclusions of the party assigned to file first shall be set forth in serially numbered paragraphs, and any counter statement of proposed findings and conclusions shall, in addition to any other matter presented, indicate those paragraphs of the proposals already filed as to which there is no dispute. A reply brief may be filed by the party assigned to file first, or, where simultaneous filings are directed, reply briefs may be filed by each party, within the period prescribed therefor by the Administrative Law Judge. No further briefs may be filed except with permission of the Administrative Law Judge.
(c) Time for filing. In any proceeding in which a decision is to be issued:
Time for filing.
In any proceeding in which a decision is to be issued:
(1) At the close of each hearing, the Administrative Law Judge shall, by order, after consultation with the parties, prescribe the period within which proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs are to be filed. The party directed to file first shall make its initial filing not later than 30 days after the end of the hearing unless the Administrative Law Judge, for good cause shown, permits a different period and sets forth in the order the reasons why the different period is necessary.
(2) The total period within which all such proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs and any counter statements of proposed findings and conclusions and reply briefs are to be filed shall be no longer than 90 days after the close of the hearing unless the Administrative Law Judge, for good cause shown, permits a different period and sets forth in an order the reasons why the different period is necessary.

§ 501.736   Authority of Administrative Law Judge.

The Administrative Law Judge shall have authority to do all things necessary and appropriate to discharge his or her duties. No provision of these rules shall be construed to limit the powers of the Administrative Law Judge provided by the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556, 557. The powers of the Administrative Law Judge include, but are not limited to:
(a) Administering oaths and affirmations;
(b) Issuing subpoenas authorized by law and revoking, quashing, or modifying any such subpoena;
(c) Receiving relevant evidence and ruling upon the admission of evidence and offers of proof;
(d) Regulating the course of a proceeding and the conduct of the parties and their representatives;
(e) Holding prehearing and other conferences as set forth in § 501.726 and requiring the attendance at any such conference of at least one representative of each party who has authority to negotiate concerning the resolution of issues in controversy;
(f) Subject to any limitations set forth elsewhere in this subpart, considering and ruling on all procedural and other motions;
(g) Upon notice to all parties, reopening any hearing prior to the issuance of a decision;
(h) Requiring production of records or any information relevant to any act or transaction subject to a hearing under this subpart, and imposing sanctions available under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37(b)(2) (Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(b)(2), 28 U.S.C.) for a party's failure to comply with discovery requests;
(i) Establishing time, place, and manner limitations on the attendance of the public and the media for any hearing; and
(j) Setting fees and expenses for witnesses, including expert witnesses.

§ 501.737   Adjustments of time, postponements and adjournments.

(a) Availability. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, at any time prior to the filing of his or her decision, may, for good cause and in the interest of justice, modify any time limit prescribed by this subpart and may, consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, postpone or adjourn any hearing.
Availability.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, at any time prior to the filing of his or her decision, may, for good cause and in the interest of justice, modify any time limit prescribed by this subpart and may, consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, postpone or adjourn any hearing.
(b) Limitations on postponements, adjournments and adjustments. A hearing shall begin at the time and place ordered, provided that, within the limits provided, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, may for good cause shown postpone the commencement of the hearing or adjourn a convened hearing for a reasonable period of time.
Limitations on postponements, adjournments and adjustments.
A hearing shall begin at the time and place ordered, provided that, within the limits provided, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, may for good cause shown postpone the commencement of the hearing or adjourn a convened hearing for a reasonable period of time.
(1) Additional considerations. In considering a motion for postponement of the start of a hearing, adjournment once a hearing has begun, or extensions of time for filing papers, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, shall consider, in addition to any other factors:
Additional considerations.
In considering a motion for postponement of the start of a hearing, adjournment once a hearing has begun, or extensions of time for filing papers, the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, shall consider, in addition to any other factors:
(i) The length of the proceeding to date;
(ii) The number of postponements, adjournments or extensions already granted;
(iii) The stage of the proceedings at the time of the request; and
(iv) Any other matter as justice may require.
(2) Time limit. Postponements, adjournments or extensions of time for filing papers shall not exceed 21 days unless the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, states on the record or sets forth in a written order the reasons why a longer period of time is necessary.
Time limit.
Postponements, adjournments or extensions of time for filing papers shall not exceed 21 days unless the Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary's designee, as appropriate, states on the record or sets forth in a written order the reasons why a longer period of time is necessary.

§ 501.738   Disqualification and withdrawal of Administrative Law Judge.

(a) Notice of disqualification. If at any time an Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee believes himself or herself to be disqualified from considering a matter, the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee, as appropriate, shall issue a notice stating that he or she is withdrawing from the matter and setting forth the reasons therefor.
Notice of disqualification.
If at any time an Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee believes himself or herself to be disqualified from considering a matter, the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee, as appropriate, shall issue a notice stating that he or she is withdrawing from the matter and setting forth the reasons therefor.
(b) Motion for Withdrawal. Any party who has a reasonable, good faith basis to believe an Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee has a personal bias, or is otherwise disqualified from hearing a case, may make a motion to the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee, as appropriate, that the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee withdraw. The motion shall be accompanied by a statement subject to 18 U.S.C. 1001 setting forth in detail the facts alleged to constitute grounds for disqualification. If the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee finds himself or herself qualified, he or she shall so rule and shall continue to preside over the proceeding.
Motion for Withdrawal.
Any party who has a reasonable, good faith basis to believe an Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee has a personal bias, or is otherwise disqualified from hearing a case, may make a motion to the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee, as appropriate, that the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee withdraw. The motion shall be accompanied by a statement subject to 18 U.S.C. 1001 setting forth in detail the facts alleged to constitute grounds for disqualification. If the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee finds himself or herself qualified, he or she shall so rule and shall continue to preside over the proceeding.

§ 501.739   Record in proceedings before Administrative Law Judge; retention of documents; copies.

(a) Recordation. Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, all hearings shall be recorded and a written transcript thereof shall be prepared.
Recordation.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, all hearings shall be recorded and a written transcript thereof shall be prepared.
(1) Availability of a transcript. Transcripts of hearings shall be available for purchase.
Availability of a transcript.
Transcripts of hearings shall be available for purchase.
(2) Transcript correction. Prior to the filing of post-hearing briefs or proposed findings and conclusions, or within such earlier time as directed by the Administrative Law Judge, a party or witness may make a motion to correct the transcript. Proposed corrections of the transcript may be submitted to the Administrative Law Judge by stipulation pursuant to § 501.732(c), or by motion. Upon notice to all parties to the proceeding, the Administrative Law Judge may, by order, specify corrections to the transcript.
Transcript correction.
Prior to the filing of post-hearing briefs or proposed findings and conclusions, or within such earlier time as directed by the Administrative Law Judge, a party or witness may make a motion to correct the transcript. Proposed corrections of the transcript may be submitted to the Administrative Law Judge by stipulation pursuant to § 501.732(c), or by motion. Upon notice to all parties to the proceeding, the Administrative Law Judge may, by order, specify corrections to the transcript.
(b) Contents of the record. The record of each hearing shall consist of:
Contents of the record.
The record of each hearing shall consist of:
(1) The Order Instituting Proceedings, Answer to Order Instituting Proceedings, Notice of Hearing and any amendments thereto;
(2) Each application, motion, submission or other paper, and any amendments, motions, objections, and exceptions to or regarding them;
(3) Each stipulation, transcript of testimony, interrogatory, deposition, and document or other item admitted into evidence;
(4) With respect to a request to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge or to allow the Administrative Law Judge's withdrawal under § 501.738, each affidavit or transcript of testimony taken and the decision made in connection with the request;
(5) All proposed findings and conclusions;
(6) Each written order issued by the Administrative Law Judge; and
(7) Any other document or item accepted into the record by the Administrative Law Judge.
(c) Retention of documents not admitted. Any document offered as evidence but excluded, and any document marked for identification but not offered as an exhibit, shall not be part of the record. The Administrative Law Judge shall retain any such document until the later of the date the proceeding becomes final, or the date any judicial review of the final proceeding is no longer available.
(d) Substitution of copies. A true copy of a document may be substituted for any document in the record or any document retained pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
Substitution of copies.
A true copy of a document may be substituted for any document in the record or any document retained pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.

§ 501.740   Decision of Administrative Law Judge.

The Administrative Law Judge shall prepare a decision that constitutes his or her final disposition of the proceedings.
(a) Content. (1) The Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether or not the respondent has violated any provision of parts 500 and 515 of this chapter or the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or under the authority of the Secretary pursuant to part 500 or 515 of this chapter or otherwise under the Trading with the Enemy Act.
Content.
(1) The Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether or not the respondent has violated any provision of parts 500 and 515 of this chapter or the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or under the authority of the Secretary pursuant to part 500 or 515 of this chapter or otherwise under the Trading with the Enemy Act.
(2) The Administrative Law Judge's decision shall include findings and conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefor, as to all the material issues of fact, law or discretion presented on the record.
(3) (i) Upon a finding of violation, the Administrative Law Judge shall award an appropriate monetary civil penalty in an amount consistent with the Penalty Guidelines published by the Director.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, the Administrative Law Judge:
(A) Shall provide an opportunity for a respondent to assert his or her inability to pay a penalty, or financial hardship, by filing with the Administrative Law Judge a financial disclosure statement subject to 18 U.S.C. 1001 that sets forth in detail the basis for the financial hardship or the inability to pay; and
(B) Shall consider any such filing in determining the appropriate monetary civil penalty.
(b) Administrative Law Judge's decision—(1) Service. The Administrative Law Judge shall serve his or her decision on the respondent and on the Director through the Office of Chief Counsel, and shall file a copy of the decision with the Secretary's designee.
Administrative Law Judge's decision
—(1)
Service.
The Administrative Law Judge shall serve his or her decision on the respondent and on the Director through the Office of Chief Counsel, and shall file a copy of the decision with the Secretary's designee.
(2) Filing of report with the Secretary's designee. If the respondent or Director files a petition for review pursuant to § 501.741, or upon a request from the Secretary's designee, the Administrative Law Judge shall file his or her report with the Secretary's designee not later than 20 days after service of his or her decision on the parties. The report shall consist of the record, including the Administrative Law Judge's decision, and any petition from the respondent or the Director seeking review.
Filing of report with the Secretary's designee.
If the respondent or Director files a petition for review pursuant to § 501.741, or upon a request from the Secretary's designee, the Administrative Law Judge shall file his or her report with the Secretary's designee not later than 20 days after service of his or her decision on the parties. The report shall consist of the record, including the Administrative Law Judge's decision, and any petition from the respondent or the Director seeking review.
(3) Correction of errors. Until the Administrative Law Judge's report has been directed for review by the Secretary's designee or, in the absence of a direction for review, until the decision has become a final order, the Administrative Law Judge may correct clerical errors and errors arising through oversight or inadvertence in decisions, orders, or other parts of the record.
Correction of errors.
Until the Administrative Law Judge's report has been directed for review by the Secretary's designee or, in the absence of a direction for review, until the decision has become a final order, the Administrative Law Judge may correct clerical errors and errors arising through oversight or inadvertence in decisions, orders, or other parts of the record.
(c) Administrative Law Judge's decision final unless review directed. Unless the Secretary's designee determines to review a decision in accordance with § 501.741(a)(1), the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall become the final decision of the Department.
Administrative Law Judge's decision final unless review directed.
Unless the Secretary's designee determines to review a decision in accordance with § 501.741(a)(1), the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall become the final decision of the Department.
(d) Penalty awarded. The Director is charged with implementing all final decisions of the Department and, upon a finding of violation and/or award of a civil monetary penalty, shall carry out the necessary steps to close the action.
Penalty awarded.
The Director is charged with implementing all final decisions of the Department and, upon a finding of violation and/or award of a civil monetary penalty, shall carry out the necessary steps to close the action.

§ 501.741   Review of decision or ruling.

(a) Availability. (1)(i) Review of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge by the Secretary's designee is not a right. The Secretary's designee may, in his or her discretion, review the decision of the Administrative Law Judge on the petition of either the respondent or the Director, or upon his or her own motion. The Secretary's designee shall determine whether to review a decision:
Availability.
(1)(i) Review of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge by the Secretary's designee is not a right. The Secretary's designee may, in his or her discretion, review the decision of the Administrative Law Judge on the petition of either the respondent or the Director, or upon his or her own motion. The Secretary's designee shall determine whether to review a decision:
(A) If a petition for review has been filed by the respondent or the Director, not later than 30 days after that date the Administrative Law Judge filed his or her report with the Secretary's designee pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(B) If no petition for review has been filed by the respondent or the Director, not later than 40 days after the date the Administrative Law Judge filed his or her decision with the Secretary's designee pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(ii) In determining whether to review a decision upon petition of the respondent or the Director, the Secretary's designee shall consider whether the petition for review makes a reasonable showing that:
(A) A prejudicial error was committed in the conduct of the proceeding; or
(B) The decision embodies:
(1) A finding or conclusion of material fact that is clearly erroneous;
1
) A finding or conclusion of material fact that is clearly erroneous;
(2) A conclusion of law that is erroneous; or
2
) A conclusion of law that is erroneous; or
(3) An exercise of discretion or decision of law or policy that is important and that the Secretary's designee should review.
3
) An exercise of discretion or decision of law or policy that is important and that the Secretary's designee should review.
(2) Interlocutory review of ruling. The Secretary's designee shall review any ruling of an Administrative Law Judge involving privileged or confidential material that is the subject of a petition for review. See § 501.725.
Interlocutory review of ruling.
The Secretary's designee shall review any ruling of an Administrative Law Judge involving privileged or confidential material that is the subject of a petition for review. See § 501.725.
(b) Filing. Either the respondent or the Director, when adversely affected or aggrieved by the decision or ruling of the Administrative Law Judge, may seek review by the Secretary's designee by filing a petition for review. Any petition for review shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge within 10 days after service of the Administrative Law Judge's decision or the issuance of a ruling involving privileged or confidential material.
Filing.
Either the respondent or the Director, when adversely affected or aggrieved by the decision or ruling of the Administrative Law Judge, may seek review by the Secretary's designee by filing a petition for review. Any petition for review shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge within 10 days after service of the Administrative Law Judge's decision or the issuance of a ruling involving privileged or confidential material.
(c) Contents. The petition shall state why the Secretary's designee should review the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling, including: Whether the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling raises an important question of law, policy or discretion; whether review by the Secretary's designee will resolve a question about which the Department's Administrative Law Judges have rendered differing opinions; whether the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling is contrary to law or Department precedent; whether a finding of material fact is not supported by a preponderance of the evidence; or whether a prejudicial error of procedure or an abuse of discretion was committed. A petition should concisely state the portions of the decision or ruling for which review is sought. A petition shall not incorporate by reference a brief or legal memorandum.
Contents.
The petition shall state why the Secretary's designee should review the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling, including: Whether the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling raises an important question of law, policy or discretion; whether review by the Secretary's designee will resolve a question about which the Department's Administrative Law Judges have rendered differing opinions; whether the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling is contrary to law or Department precedent; whether a finding of material fact is not supported by a preponderance of the evidence; or whether a prejudicial error of procedure or an abuse of discretion was committed. A petition should concisely state the portions of the decision or ruling for which review is sought. A petition shall not incorporate by reference a brief or legal memorandum.
(d) When filing effective. A petition for review is filed when received by the Administrative Law Judge.
When filing effective.
A petition for review is filed when received by the Administrative Law Judge.
(e) Statements in opposition to petition. Not later than 8 days after the filing of a petition for review, either the respondent or the Director may file a statement in opposition to a petition. A statement in opposition to a petition for review shall be filed in the manner specified in this section for filing of petitions for review. Statements in opposition shall concisely state why the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling should not be reviewed with respect to each portion of the petition to which it is addressed.
Statements in opposition to petition.
Not later than 8 days after the filing of a petition for review, either the respondent or the Director may file a statement in opposition to a petition. A statement in opposition to a petition for review shall be filed in the manner specified in this section for filing of petitions for review. Statements in opposition shall concisely state why the Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling should not be reviewed with respect to each portion of the petition to which it is addressed.
(f) Number of copies. An original and three copies of a petition or a statement in opposition to a petition shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
Number of copies.
An original and three copies of a petition or a statement in opposition to a petition shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
(g) Prerequisite to judicial review. Pursuant to section 704 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 704, a petition for review by the Secretary's designee of an Administrative Law Judge decision or ruling is a prerequisite to the seeking of judicial review of a final order entered pursuant to such decision or ruling.
Prerequisite to judicial review.
Pursuant to section 704 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 704, a petition for review by the Secretary's designee of an Administrative Law Judge decision or ruling is a prerequisite to the seeking of judicial review of a final order entered pursuant to such decision or ruling.

§ 501.742   Secretary's designee's consideration of decisions by Administrative Law Judges.

(a) Scope of review. The Secretary's designee may affirm, reverse, modify, set aside or remand for further proceedings, in whole or in part, a decision or ruling by an Administrative Law Judge and may make any findings or conclusions that in his or her judgment are proper and on the basis of the record and such additional evidence as the Secretary's designee may receive in his or her discretion.
Scope of review.
The Secretary's designee may affirm, reverse, modify, set aside or remand for further proceedings, in whole or in part, a decision or ruling by an Administrative Law Judge and may make any findings or conclusions that in his or her judgment are proper and on the basis of the record and such additional evidence as the Secretary's designee may receive in his or her discretion.
(b) Summary affirmance. The Secretary's designee may summarily affirm an Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling based upon the petition for review and any response thereto, without further briefing, if he or she finds that no issue raised in the petition for review warrants further consideration.
Summary affirmance.
The Secretary's designee may summarily affirm an Administrative Law Judge's decision or ruling based upon the petition for review and any response thereto, without further briefing, if he or she finds that no issue raised in the petition for review warrants further consideration.

§ 501.743   Briefs filed with the Secretary's designee.

(a) Briefing schedule order. If review of a determination is mandated by judicial order or whenever the Secretary's designee reviews a decision or ruling, the Secretary's designee shall, unless such review results in summary affirmance pursuant to § 501.742(b), issue a briefing schedule order directing the parties to file opening briefs and specifying particular issues, if any, as to which briefing should be limited or directed. Unless otherwise provided, opening briefs shall be filed not later than 40 days after the date of the briefing schedule order. Opposition briefs shall be filed not later than 30 days after the date opening briefs are due. Reply briefs shall be filed not later than 14 days after the date opposition briefs are due. No briefs in addition to those specified in the briefing schedule order may be filed without permission of the Secretary's designee. The briefing schedule order shall be issued not later than 21 days after the later of:
Briefing schedule order.
If review of a determination is mandated by judicial order or whenever the Secretary's designee reviews a decision or ruling, the Secretary's designee shall, unless such review results in summary affirmance pursuant to § 501.742(b), issue a briefing schedule order directing the parties to file opening briefs and specifying particular issues, if any, as to which briefing should be limited or directed. Unless otherwise provided, opening briefs shall be filed not later than 40 days after the date of the briefing schedule order. Opposition briefs shall be filed not later than 30 days after the date opening briefs are due. Reply briefs shall be filed not later than 14 days after the date opposition briefs are due. No briefs in addition to those specified in the briefing schedule order may be filed without permission of the Secretary's designee. The briefing schedule order shall be issued not later than 21 days after the later of:
(1) The last day permitted for filing a brief in opposition to a petition for review pursuant to § 501.741(e); or
(2) Receipt by the Secretary's designee of the mandate of a court with respect to a judicial remand.
(b) Contents of briefs. Briefs shall be confined to the particular matters at issue. Each exception to the findings or conclusions being reviewed shall be stated succinctly. Exceptions shall be supported by citation to the relevant portions of the record, including references to the specific pages relied upon, and by concise argument including citation of such statutes, decisions and other authorities as may be relevant. If the exception relates to the admission or exclusion of evidence, the substance of the evidence admitted or excluded shall be set forth in the brief, in an appendix thereto, or by citation to the record. If the exception relates to interlocutory review, there is no requirement to reference pages of the transcript. Reply briefs shall be confined to matters in opposition briefs of other parties.
Contents of briefs.
Briefs shall be confined to the particular matters at issue. Each exception to the findings or conclusions being reviewed shall be stated succinctly. Exceptions shall be supported by citation to the relevant portions of the record, including references to the specific pages relied upon, and by concise argument including citation of such statutes, decisions and other authorities as may be relevant. If the exception relates to the admission or exclusion of evidence, the substance of the evidence admitted or excluded shall be set forth in the brief, in an appendix thereto, or by citation to the record. If the exception relates to interlocutory review, there is no requirement to reference pages of the transcript. Reply briefs shall be confined to matters in opposition briefs of other parties.
(c) Length limitation. Opening and opposition briefs shall not exceed 30 pages and reply briefs shall not exceed 20 pages, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum, except with permission of the Secretary's designee.
Length limitation.
Opening and opposition briefs shall not exceed 30 pages and reply briefs shall not exceed 20 pages, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum, except with permission of the Secretary's designee.

§ 501.744   Record before the Secretary's designee.

The Secretary's designee shall determine each matter on the basis of the record and such additional evidence as the Secretary's designee may receive in his or her discretion. In any case of interlocutory review, the Administrative Law Judge shall direct that a transcript of the relevant proceedings be prepared and forwarded to the Secretary's designee.
(a) Contents of the record. In proceedings for final decision before the Secretary's designee the record shall consist of:
Contents of the record.
In proceedings for final decision before the Secretary's designee the record shall consist of:
(1) All items that are part of the record in accordance with § 501.739;
(2) Any petitions for review, cross-petitions or oppositions;
(3) All briefs, motions, submissions and other papers filed on appeal or review; and
(4) Any other material of which the Secretary's designee may take administrative notice.
(b) Review of documents not admitted. Any document offered in evidence but excluded by the Administrative Law Judge and any document marked for identification but not offered as an exhibit shall not be considered a part of the record before the Secretary's designee on review but shall be transmitted to the Secretary's designee if he or she so requests. In the event that the Secretary's designee does not request the document, the Administrative Law Judge shall retain the document not admitted into the record until the later of:
Review of documents not admitted.
Any document offered in evidence but excluded by the Administrative Law Judge and any document marked for identification but not offered as an exhibit shall not be considered a part of the record before the Secretary's designee on review but shall be transmitted to the Secretary's designee if he or she so requests. In the event that the Secretary's designee does not request the document, the Administrative Law Judge shall retain the document not admitted into the record until the later of:
(1) The date upon which the Secretary's designee's order becomes final; or
(2) The conclusion of any judicial review of that order.

§ 501.745   Orders and decisions: signature, date and public availability.

(a) Signature required. All orders and decisions of the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee shall be signed.
Signature required.
All orders and decisions of the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee shall be signed.
(b) Date of entry of orders. The date of entry of an order by the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee shall be the date the order is signed. Such date shall be reflected in the caption of the order, or if there is no caption, in the order itself.
Date of entry of orders.
The date of entry of an order by the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee shall be the date the order is signed. Such date shall be reflected in the caption of the order, or if there is no caption, in the order itself.
(c) Public availability of orders. (1) In general, any final order of the Department shall be made public. Any supporting findings or opinions relating to a final order shall be made public at such time as the final order is made public.
Public availability of orders.
(1) In general, any final order of the Department shall be made public. Any supporting findings or opinions relating to a final order shall be made public at such time as the final order is made public.
(2) Exception. Any final order of the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee pertaining to an application for confidential treatment shall only be available to the public in accordance with § 501.725(b)(3).
Exception.
Any final order of the Administrative Law Judge or Secretary's designee pertaining to an application for confidential treatment shall only be available to the public in accordance with § 501.725(b)(3).

§ 501.746   Referral to United States Department of Justice; administrative collection measures.

In the event that the respondent does not pay any penalty imposed pursuant to this part within 30 calendar days of the mailing of the written notice of the imposition of the penalty, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

§ 501.747   Procedures on remand of decisions.

Either an Administrative Law Judge or a Secretary's designee, as appropriate, shall reconsider any Department decision on judicial remand to the Department. The rules of practice contained in this subpart shall apply to all proceedings held on judicial remand.

Subpart E—Procedures

[Source:62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 68 FR 53642, Sept. 11, 2003.]
Source:
62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 68 FR 53642, Sept. 11, 2003.

§ 501.801   Licensing.

(a) General licenses. General licenses may be issued authorizing, under appropriate terms and conditions, certain types of transactions that are subject to the prohibitions contained in this chapter. General licenses also may be issued authorizing, under appropriate terms and conditions, certain types of transactions that are subject to prohibitions contained in economic sanctions programs the implementation and administration of which have been delegated to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) but which are not yet codified in this chapter. General licenses are set forth in subpart E of each part contained in this chapter, made available on OFAC's website (https://ofac.treasury.gov), or published in the Federal Register. It is the policy of OFAC not to grant applications for specific licenses authorizing transactions to which the provisions of a general license are applicable. Persons availing themselves of certain general licenses may be required to file reports and statements in accordance with the instructions specified in those licenses. Failure to file timely all required information in such reports or statements may nullify the authorization otherwise provided by the general license and result in apparent violations of the applicable prohibitions that may be subject to OFAC enforcement action.
General licenses.
General licenses may be issued authorizing, under appropriate terms and conditions, certain types of transactions that are subject to the prohibitions contained in this chapter. General licenses also may be issued authorizing, under appropriate terms and conditions, certain types of transactions that are subject to prohibitions contained in economic sanctions programs the implementation and administration of which have been delegated to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) but which are not yet codified in this chapter. General licenses are set forth in subpart E of each part contained in this chapter, made available on OFAC's website (
https://ofac.treasury.gov
), or published in the
Federal Register
. It is the policy of OFAC not to grant applications for specific licenses authorizing transactions to which the provisions of a general license are applicable. Persons availing themselves of certain general licenses may be required to file reports and statements in accordance with the instructions specified in those licenses. Failure to file timely all required information in such reports or statements may nullify the authorization otherwise provided by the general license and result in apparent violations of the applicable prohibitions that may be subject to OFAC enforcement action.
(b) Specific licenses—(1) General course of procedure. Transactions subject to the prohibitions contained in this chapter, or to prohibitions the implementation and administration of which have been otherwise delegated to the OFAC Director, that are not authorized by general license may be effected only under specific license.
Specific licenses
—(1)
General course of procedure.
Transactions subject to the prohibitions contained in this chapter, or to prohibitions the implementation and administration of which have been otherwise delegated to the OFAC Director, that are not authorized by general license may be effected only under specific license.
(2) Applications for specific licenses. Applications for specific licenses to engage in any transactions prohibited by or pursuant to this chapter, or sanctions programs that have been otherwise delegated to the OFAC Director for implementation and administration, must be signed, either manually or electronically, and filed through OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page (https://licensing.ofac.treas.gov/) or, if that option is unavailable, by mail, addressed to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Licensing Division, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220. Applications for the unblocking of funds may be submitted via OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page (https://licensing.ofac.treas.gov/) or, if that option is unavailable, by using Form TD-F 90-22.54, “Application for the Release of Blocked Funds,” or via a submission that otherwise contains all of the information provided for in Form TD-F 90-22.54. Form TD-F 90-22.54 may be obtained from OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page, or by mail at the address above.
Applications for specific licenses.
Applications for specific licenses to engage in any transactions prohibited by or pursuant to this chapter, or sanctions programs that have been otherwise delegated to the OFAC Director for implementation and administration, must be signed, either manually or electronically, and filed through OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page (
https://licensing.ofac.treas.gov/
) or, if that option is unavailable, by mail, addressed to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Licensing Division, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220. Applications for the unblocking of funds may be submitted via OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page (
https://licensing.ofac.treas.gov/
) or, if that option is unavailable, by using Form TD-F 90-22.54, “Application for the Release of Blocked Funds,” or via a submission that otherwise contains all of the information provided for in Form TD-F 90-22.54. Form TD-F 90-22.54 may be obtained from OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page, or by mail at the address above.
(i) Additional conditions. Applicants should submit only one copy of a specific license application to OFAC; submitting multiple copies may result in processing delays. Any person having an interest in a transaction or proposed transaction may file an application for a specific license authorizing such a transaction.
Additional conditions.
Applicants should submit only one copy of a specific license application to OFAC; submitting multiple copies may result in processing delays. Any person having an interest in a transaction or proposed transaction may file an application for a specific license authorizing such a transaction.
(ii) Information to be supplied. The applicant must supply all information specified by relevant instructions (available on OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page at https://licensing.ofac.treas.gov) or forms, and must fully disclose the names of all parties who are concerned with or interested in the proposed transaction. If the application is filed by an agent, the agent must disclose the name of his or her principal(s). Such documents as may be relevant shall be attached to each application as a part of such application, whether filed electronically or by mail, except that documents previously filed with OFAC may, where appropriate, be incorporated by reference in such application. For applications for the release of blocked funds, applicants are encouraged to include, when available, the OFAC Reporting System (ORS) transaction and submission identification numbers. Applicants may be required to furnish such further information as is deemed necessary to assist OFAC in making a determination. Any applicant or other party in interest desiring to present additional information may do so at any time before or after OFAC makes its decision with respect to the application. Any requests to make such an oral presentation must be submitted via the OFAC License Application Page at https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-license-application-page to the attention of the Licensing Division, referencing the relevant Case ID number and a “Request for Oral Presentation.” Such requests are rarely granted.
Information to be supplied.
The applicant must supply all information specified by relevant instructions (available on OFAC's Reporting and License Application Forms page at
https://licensing.ofac.treas.gov
) or forms, and must fully disclose the names of all parties who are concerned with or interested in the proposed transaction. If the application is filed by an agent, the agent must disclose the name of his or her principal(s). Such documents as may be relevant shall be attached to each application as a part of such application, whether filed electronically or by mail, except that documents previously filed with OFAC may, where appropriate, be incorporated by reference in such application. For applications for the release of blocked funds, applicants are encouraged to include, when available, the OFAC Reporting System (ORS) transaction and submission identification numbers. Applicants may be required to furnish such further information as is deemed necessary to assist OFAC in making a determination. Any applicant or other party in interest desiring to present additional information may do so at any time before or after OFAC makes its decision with respect to the application. Any requests to make such an oral presentation must be submitted via the OFAC License Application Page at
https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-license-application-page
to the attention of the Licensing Division, referencing the relevant Case ID number and a “Request for Oral Presentation.” Such requests are rarely granted.
(3) Issuance of specific license. Specific licenses normally will be issued by OFAC. Specific licenses also may be issued by the Secretary of the Treasury acting directly or through any specifically designated person, agency, or instrumentality.
Issuance of specific license.
Specific licenses normally will be issued by OFAC. Specific licenses also may be issued by the Secretary of the Treasury acting directly or through any specifically designated person, agency, or instrumentality.
(4) Reports under specific licenses. As a condition for the issuance of any specific license, the licensee may be required to file reports with respect to the transactions authorized by the specific license in such form and at such times and places as may be prescribed in the license or otherwise. Reports should be sent in accordance with the instructions provided in the applicable specific license.
Reports under specific licenses.
As a condition for the issuance of any specific license, the licensee may be required to file reports with respect to the transactions authorized by the specific license in such form and at such times and places as may be prescribed in the license or otherwise. Reports should be sent in accordance with the instructions provided in the applicable specific license.
(5) Effect of denial. The denial of a specific license does not preclude the reconsideration of an application or the filing of a further application. The applicant or any other party in interest may at any time request, via the OFAC License Application Page at https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-license-application-page, reconsideration of the denial of an application on the basis of new facts or changed circumstances.
Effect of denial.
The denial of a specific license does not preclude the reconsideration of an application or the filing of a further application. The applicant or any other party in interest may at any time request, via the OFAC License Application Page at
https://ofac.treasury.gov/ofac-license-application-page
, reconsideration of the denial of an application on the basis of new facts or changed circumstances.
(6) Rules governing availability of information. Information submitted to OFAC pursuant to this section will be protected from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the provisions of 31 CFR part 1 if OFAC reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law. See 31 CFR 1.5 for additional provisions relating to confidential commercial information.
Rules governing availability of information.
Information submitted to OFAC pursuant to this section will be protected from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) and the provisions of 31 CFR part 1 if OFAC reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or disclosure is prohibited by law. See 31 CFR 1.5 for additional provisions relating to confidential commercial information.
[[84 FR 29061, June 21, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 40377, May 10, 2024]]

§ 501.802   Decisions.

The Office of Foreign Assets Control will advise each applicant of the decision respecting filed applications. The decision of the Office of Foreign Assets Control acting on behalf of the Secretary of the Treasury with respect to an application shall constitute final agency action.

§ 501.803   Amendment, modification, or revocation.

Except as otherwise provided by law, the provisions of each part of this chapter and any rulings, licenses (whether general or specific), authorizations, instructions, orders, or forms issued thereunder may be amended, modified or revoked at any time.
[[63 FR 35809, July 1, 1998]]

§ 501.804   Rulemaking.

(a) All rules and other public documents are issued by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In general, rulemaking by the Office of Foreign Assets Control involves foreign affairs functions of the United States, and for that reason is exempt from the requirements under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) for notice of proposed rulemaking, opportunity for public comment, and delay in effective date.
(b) Any interested person may petition the Office of Foreign Assets Control for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of any rule, including a general license, at OFACReport@treasury.gov with the number of this section in the subject line.
OFACReport@treasury.gov
with the number of this section in the subject line.
[[62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997. Redesignated at 68 FR 53642, Sept. 11, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 40377, May 10, 2024]]

§ 501.805   Rules governing availability of information.

(a) The records of the Office of Foreign Assets Control which are required by the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) to be made available to the public shall be made available in accordance with the definitions, procedures, payment of fees, and other provisions of the regulations on the Disclosure of Records of the Departmental Offices and of other bureaus and offices of the Department of the Treasury issued under 5 U.S.C. 552 and published at 31 CFR part 1, as well as the provisions of this part.
Note to paragraph § 501.805(
a
):
Records or information obtained or created in the implementation of part 598 of this chapter are not subject to disclosure under section 552(a)(3) of the Freedom of Information Act. See § 598.802 of this chapter.
(b) The records of the Office of Foreign Assets Control which are required by the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) to be made available to an individual shall be made available in accordance with the definitions, procedures, requirements for payment of fees, and other provisions of the Regulations on the Disclosure of Records of the Departmental Offices and of other bureaus and offices of the Department of the Treasury issued under 5 U.S.C. 552a and published at 31 CFR part 1, as well as the provisions of this part.
(c) Any form issued for use in connection with this chapter may be obtained on OFAC's website (https://ofac.treasury.gov).
https://ofac.treasury.gov
).
(d) Certain Civil Penalties Information. (1) After the conclusion of a civil penalties proceeding that results in either the imposition of a civil monetary penalty or an informal settlement, OFAC shall make available to the public certain information on a routine basis, not less frequently than monthly, as follows:
Certain Civil Penalties Information.
(1) After the conclusion of a civil penalties proceeding that results in either the imposition of a civil monetary penalty or an informal settlement, OFAC shall make available to the public certain information on a routine basis, not less frequently than monthly, as follows:
(i) In each such proceeding against an entity, OFAC shall make available to the public
(A) The name and address of the entity involved,
(B) The sanctions program involved,
(C) A brief description of the violation or alleged violation,
(D) A clear indication whether the proceeding resulted in an informal settlement or in the imposition of a penalty,
(E) An indication whether the entity voluntarily disclosed the violation or alleged violation to OFAC, and
(F) The amount of the penalty imposed or the amount of the agreed settlement.
(ii) In such proceedings against individuals, OFAC shall release on an aggregate basis
(A) The number of penalties imposed and informal settlements reached,
(B) The sanctions programs involved,
(C) A brief description of the violations or alleged violations,
(D) A clear indication whether the proceedings resulted in informal settlements, in the imposition of penalties, or in administrative hearing requests pursuant to the Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA), 50 U.S.C. 5(b), and
(E) The amounts of the penalties imposed and the amounts of the agreed settlements.
(2) The medium through which information will be released is OFAC's website at https://ofac.treasury.gov.
https://ofac.treasury.gov
.
(3) The information made available pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not include the following:
(i) The name of any violator or alleged violator who is an individual.
(ii) Records or information obtained or created in the implementation of part 598 of this chapter.
(4) On a case-by-case basis, OFAC may release additional information concerning a particular civil penalties proceeding.
[[62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 41335, July 5, 2000; 68 FR 6822, Feb. 11, 2003; 89 FR 40377, May 10, 2024]]

§ 501.806   Procedures for unblocking property believed to have been blocked and reported in error due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors.

When a party believes it has blocked property pursuant to the applicable regulations of this chapter due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, such party may seek to have such property unblocked pursuant to the following administrative procedures:
(a) Any person who has blocked and reported to the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) property pursuant to § 501.603 may submit a request for authorization to release blocked property that was blocked in error due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar error.
(b) Requests to release such property must be sent via email to OFACReport@treasury.gov and include the phrase “31 CFR 501.806—Request for a Compliance Release” in the subject line of the email.
OFACReport@treasury.gov
and include the phrase “31 CFR 501.806—Request for a Compliance Release” in the subject line of the email.
(c) A request to release property must include the name, address, telephone number, and email address of the person seeking the release of the property.
(d) A request to release property should include the following information, where known, concerning the blocked property:
(1) The name of the person that holds the blocked property or filed the initial report of blocked property;
(2) The actual value, or if unknown, estimated value, in U.S. dollars of the blocked property, as included in the initial report of blocked property;
(3) The date of the blocking included in the initial report of blocked property;
(4) A copy of a valid government-issued identification document, social security number or employer identification number for a person whose property is believed to have been blocked in error, when applicable;
(5) The OFAC Reporting System (ORS) identification numbers associated with the initial report of blocked property filed with OFAC, when available;
(6) A description of the property or underlying transaction; and
(7) A narrative description of the reasons why the applicant believes the property was blocked in error.
(e) Upon receipt of the materials required by paragraph (d) of this section, OFAC may request additional material, if available, from the applicant concerning the blocked property pursuant to § 501.602.
(f) Following review of all applicable submissions, OFAC will determine whether the property should be released. In the event that OFAC determines that the property should be released, it will direct the person to release the property to the appropriate party.
[[89 FR 40378, May 10, 2024]]

§ 501.807   Procedures governing delisting from the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List or any other list of sanctioned persons or property maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.

A person may submit a petition for administrative reconsideration pursuant to the procedures outlined below in order to seek removal of a person or property (e.g., a vessel) from the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List) or any other list or identification of sanctioned persons or property maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC):
(a) A person blocked under the provisions of any part of this chapter, including a specially designated national, specially designated terrorist, specially designated narcotics trafficker, or a person otherwise subject to sanctions pursuant to the provisions of any part of this chapter (each, a “sanctioned person”), or a person owning a majority interest in property (e.g., a vessel) that is blocked or otherwise subject to sanctions may submit arguments or evidence that the person believes establishes that insufficient basis exists for the sanction or that the circumstances resulting in the sanction no longer apply. The sanctioned person also may propose remedial steps on the person's part, such as corporate reorganization, resignation of persons from positions in a blocked entity, or similar steps, which the person believes would negate the basis for the sanction. A person owning a majority interest in property (e.g., a vessel) that is blocked or otherwise subject to sanctions may propose the sale of the vessel, with the proceeds to be placed into a blocked interest-bearing account after deducting the costs incurred while the vessel was blocked and the costs of the sale. This submission must be made via email to OFAC.Reconsideration@treasury.gov.
OFAC.Reconsideration@treasury.gov.
(b) For purposes of reconsideration petitions relating to persons or property sanctioned by OFAC:
(1) The information submitted by the person seeking removal of a person or property from the SDN List or any other list or identification of sanctioned persons or property maintained by OFAC will be reviewed by OFAC, which may request clarifying, corroborating, or other additional information.
(2) A person seeking removal of a person or property from the SDN List or any other list or identification of sanctioned persons or property maintained by OFAC may request a meeting with OFAC; however, such meetings are not required, and the office may, at its discretion, decline to conduct such meetings prior to completing a review pursuant to this section.
(3) After OFAC has conducted a review of the request for reconsideration, it will provide a written decision to the person seeking the removal of a person or property from the SDN List or any other list or identification of sanctioned persons or property maintained by OFAC.
[[89 FR 40378, May 10, 2024]]

§ 501.808   License application and other procedures applicable to economic sanctions programs.

Upon submission to the Office of Management and Budget of an amendment to the overall burden hours for the information collections imposed under this part, the license application and other procedures set forth in this subpart are applicable to economic sanctions programs for which implementation and administration have been delegated to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.

Subpart F—Paperwork Reduction Act

[Source:62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 68 FR 53642, Sept. 11, 2003.]
Source:
62 FR 45101, Aug. 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 68 FR 53642, Sept. 11, 2003.

§ 501.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

The information collection requirements in subparts C and D have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3507(j)) and assigned control number 1505-0164. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 501—Economic Sanctions Enforcement Guidelines.

Note:
This appendix provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
I. Definitions
A. Apparent violation means conduct that constitutes an actual or possible violation of U.S. economic sanctions laws, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), the Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA), the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, and other statutes administered or enforced by OFAC, as well as Executive orders, regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant thereto.
Apparent violation
means conduct that constitutes an actual or possible violation of U.S. economic sanctions laws, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), the Trading With the Enemy Act (TWEA), the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, and other statutes administered or enforced by OFAC, as well as Executive orders, regulations, orders, directives, or licenses issued pursuant thereto.
B. Applicable schedule amount means:
Applicable schedule amount
means:
1. $1,000 with respect to a transaction valued at less than $1,000;
2. $10,000 with respect to a transaction valued at $1,000 or more but less than $10,000;
3. $25,000 with respect to a transaction valued at $10,000 or more but less than $25,000;
4. $50,000 with respect to a transaction valued at $25,000 or more but less than $50,000;
5. $100,000 with respect to a transaction valued at $50,000 or more but less than $100,000;
6. $200,000 with respect to a transaction valued at $100,000 or more but less than $200,000;
7. The statutory maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA listed in section V.B.2.a.v. of this appendix with respect to a transaction valued at $200,000 or more.
C. OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
D. Penalty is the final civil penalty amount imposed in a Penalty Notice.
Penalty
is the final civil penalty amount imposed in a Penalty Notice.
E. Proposed penalty is the civil penalty amount set forth in a Pre-Penalty Notice.
Proposed penalty
is the civil penalty amount set forth in a Pre-Penalty Notice.
F. Regulator means any Federal, State, local or foreign official or agency that has authority to license or examine an entity for compliance with federal, state, or foreign law.
Regulator
means any Federal, State, local or foreign official or agency that has authority to license or examine an entity for compliance with federal, state, or foreign law.
G. Subject Person means an individual or entity subject to any of the sanctions programs administered or enforced by OFAC.
Subject Person
means an individual or entity subject to any of the sanctions programs administered or enforced by OFAC.
H. Transaction value means the dollar value of a subject transaction. In export and import cases, the transaction value generally will be the domestic value in the United States of the goods, technology, or services sought to be exported from or imported into the United States, as demonstrated by commercial invoices, bills of lading, signed Customs declarations, or similar documents. In cases involving seizures by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the transaction value generally will be the domestic value as determined by CBP. If the apparent violation at issue is a prohibited dealing in blocked property by a Subject Person, the transaction value generally will be the dollar value of the underlying transaction involved, such as the value of the property dealt in or the amount of the funds transfer that a financial institution failed to block or reject. Where the transaction value is not otherwise ascertainable, OFAC may consider the market value of the goods or services that were the subject of the transaction, the economic benefit conferred on the sanctioned party, and/or the economic benefit derived by the Subject Person from the transaction, in determining transaction value. For purposes of these Guidelines, “transaction value” will not necessarily have the same meaning, nor be applied in the same manner, as that term is used for import valuation purposes at 19 CFR 152.103.
Transaction value
means the dollar value of a subject transaction. In export and import cases, the transaction value generally will be the domestic value in the United States of the goods, technology, or services sought to be exported from or imported into the United States, as demonstrated by commercial invoices, bills of lading, signed Customs declarations, or similar documents. In cases involving seizures by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the transaction value generally will be the domestic value as determined by CBP. If the apparent violation at issue is a prohibited dealing in blocked property by a Subject Person, the transaction value generally will be the dollar value of the underlying transaction involved, such as the value of the property dealt in or the amount of the funds transfer that a financial institution failed to block or reject. Where the transaction value is not otherwise ascertainable, OFAC may consider the market value of the goods or services that were the subject of the transaction, the economic benefit conferred on the sanctioned party, and/or the economic benefit derived by the Subject Person from the transaction, in determining transaction value. For purposes of these Guidelines, “transaction value” will not necessarily have the same meaning, nor be applied in the same manner, as that term is used for import valuation purposes at 19 CFR 152.103.
I. Voluntary self-disclosure means self-initiated notification to OFAC of an apparent violation by a Subject Person that has committed, or otherwise participated in, an apparent violation of a statute, Executive order, or regulation administered or enforced by OFAC, prior to or at the same time that OFAC, or any other federal, state, or local government agency or official, discovers the apparent violation or another substantially similar apparent violation. For these purposes, “substantially similar apparent violation” means an apparent violation that is part of a series of similar apparent violations or is related to the same pattern or practice of conduct. Notification of an apparent violation to another government agency (but not to OFAC) by a Subject Person, which is considered a voluntary self-disclosure by that agency, may be considered a voluntary self-disclosure by OFAC, based on a case-by-case assessment. Notification to OFAC of an apparent violation is not a voluntary self-disclosure if: a third party is required to and does notify OFAC of the apparent violation or a substantially similar apparent violation because a transaction was blocked or rejected by that third party (regardless of when OFAC receives such notice from the third party and regardless of whether the Subject Person was aware of the third party's disclosure); the disclosure includes false or misleading information; the disclosure (when considered along with supplemental information provided by the Subject Person) is materially incomplete; the disclosure is not self-initiated (including when the disclosure results from a suggestion or order of a federal or state agency or official); or, when the Subject Person is an entity, the disclosure is made by an individual in a Subject Person entity without the authorization of the entity's senior management. Responding to an administrative subpoena or other inquiry from, or filing a license application with, OFAC is not a voluntary self-disclosure. In addition to notification, a voluntary self-disclosure must include, or be followed within a reasonable period of time by, a report of sufficient detail to afford a complete understanding of an apparent violation's circumstances, and should also be followed by responsiveness to any follow-up inquiries by OFAC. (As discussed further below, a Subject Person's level of cooperation with OFAC is an important factor in determining the appropriate enforcement response to an apparent violation even in the absence of a voluntary self-disclosure as defined herein; disclosure by a Subject Person generally will result in mitigation insofar as it represents cooperation with OFAC's investigation.)
Voluntary self-disclosure
means self-initiated notification to OFAC of an apparent violation by a Subject Person that has committed, or otherwise participated in, an apparent violation of a statute, Executive order, or regulation administered or enforced by OFAC, prior to or at the same time that OFAC, or any other federal, state, or local government agency or official, discovers the apparent violation or another substantially similar apparent violation. For these purposes, “substantially similar apparent violation” means an apparent violation that is part of a series of similar apparent violations or is related to the same pattern or practice of conduct. Notification of an apparent violation to another government agency (but not to OFAC) by a Subject Person, which is considered a voluntary self-disclosure by that agency, may be considered a voluntary self-disclosure by OFAC, based on a case-by-case assessment. Notification to OFAC of an apparent violation is not a voluntary self-disclosure if: a third party is required to and does notify OFAC of the apparent violation or a substantially similar apparent violation because a transaction was blocked or rejected by that third party (regardless of when OFAC receives such notice from the third party and regardless of whether the Subject Person was aware of the third party's disclosure); the disclosure includes false or misleading information; the disclosure (when considered along with supplemental information provided by the Subject Person) is materially incomplete; the disclosure is not self-initiated (including when the disclosure results from a suggestion or order of a federal or state agency or official); or, when the Subject Person is an entity, the disclosure is made by an individual in a Subject Person entity without the authorization of the entity's senior management. Responding to an administrative subpoena or other inquiry from, or filing a license application with, OFAC is not a voluntary self-disclosure. In addition to notification, a voluntary self-disclosure must include, or be followed within a reasonable period of time by, a report of sufficient detail to afford a complete understanding of an apparent violation's circumstances, and should also be followed by responsiveness to any follow-up inquiries by OFAC. (As discussed further below, a Subject Person's level of cooperation with OFAC is an important factor in determining the appropriate enforcement response to an apparent violation even in the absence of a voluntary self-disclosure as defined herein; disclosure by a Subject Person generally will result in mitigation insofar as it represents cooperation with OFAC's investigation.)
II. Types of Responses to Apparent Violations
Depending on the facts and circumstances of a particular case, an OFAC investigation may lead to one or more of the following actions:
A. No Action. If OFAC determines that there is insufficient evidence to conclude that a violation has occurred and/or, based on an analysis of the General Factors outlined in Section III of these Guidelines, concludes that the conduct does not rise to a level warranting an administrative response, then no action will be taken. In those cases in which OFAC is aware that the Subject Person has knowledge of OFAC's investigation, OFAC generally will issue a letter to the Subject Person indicating that the investigation is being closed with no administrative action being taken. A no-action determination represents a final determination as to the apparent violation, unless OFAC later learns of additional related violations or other relevant facts.
No Action.
If OFAC determines that there is insufficient evidence to conclude that a violation has occurred and/or, based on an analysis of the General Factors outlined in Section III of these Guidelines, concludes that the conduct does not rise to a level warranting an administrative response, then no action will be taken. In those cases in which OFAC is aware that the Subject Person has knowledge of OFAC's investigation, OFAC generally will issue a letter to the Subject Person indicating that the investigation is being closed with no administrative action being taken. A no-action determination represents a final determination as to the apparent violation, unless OFAC later learns of additional related violations or other relevant facts.
B. Request Additional Information. If OFAC determines that additional information regarding the apparent violation is needed, it may request further information from the Subject Person or third parties, including through an administrative subpoena issued pursuant to 31 CFR 501.602. In the case of an institution subject to regulation where OFAC has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Subject Person's regulator, OFAC will follow the procedures set forth in such MOU regarding consultation with the regulator. Even in the absence of an MOU, OFAC may seek relevant information about a regulated institution and/or the conduct constituting the apparent violation from the institution's federal, state, or foreign regulator. Upon receipt of information determined to be sufficient to assess the apparent violation, OFAC will decide, based on an analysis of the General Factors outlined in Section III of these Guidelines, whether to pursue further enforcement action or whether some other response to the apparent violation is appropriate.
Request Additional Information.
If OFAC determines that additional information regarding the apparent violation is needed, it may request further information from the Subject Person or third parties, including through an administrative subpoena issued pursuant to 31 CFR 501.602. In the case of an institution subject to regulation where OFAC has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Subject Person's regulator, OFAC will follow the procedures set forth in such MOU regarding consultation with the regulator. Even in the absence of an MOU, OFAC may seek relevant information about a regulated institution and/or the conduct constituting the apparent violation from the institution's federal, state, or foreign regulator. Upon receipt of information determined to be sufficient to assess the apparent violation, OFAC will decide, based on an analysis of the General Factors outlined in Section III of these Guidelines, whether to pursue further enforcement action or whether some other response to the apparent violation is appropriate.
C. Cautionary Letter: If OFAC determines that there is insufficient evidence to conclude that a violation has occurred or that a Finding of Violation or a civil monetary penalty is not warranted under the circumstances, but believes that the underlying conduct could lead to a violation in other circumstances and/or that a Subject Person does not appear to be exercising due diligence in assuring compliance with the statutes, Executive orders, and regulations that OFAC enforces, OFAC may issue a cautionary letter, which may convey OFAC's concerns about the underlying conduct and/or the Subject Person's OFAC compliance policies, practices and/or procedures. A cautionary letter represents a final enforcement response to the apparent violation, unless OFAC later learns of additional related violations or other relevant facts, but does not constitute a final agency determination as to whether a violation has occurred.
Cautionary Letter:
If OFAC determines that there is insufficient evidence to conclude that a violation has occurred or that a Finding of Violation or a civil monetary penalty is not warranted under the circumstances, but believes that the underlying conduct could lead to a violation in other circumstances and/or that a Subject Person does not appear to be exercising due diligence in assuring compliance with the statutes, Executive orders, and regulations that OFAC enforces, OFAC may issue a cautionary letter, which may convey OFAC's concerns about the underlying conduct and/or the Subject Person's OFAC compliance policies, practices and/or procedures. A cautionary letter represents a final enforcement response to the apparent violation, unless OFAC later learns of additional related violations or other relevant facts, but does not constitute a final agency determination as to whether a violation has occurred.
D. Finding of Violation: If OFAC determines that a violation has occurred and considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation and, based on an analysis of the General Factors outlined in Section III of these Guidelines, concludes that the Subject Person's conduct warrants an administrative response but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response, OFAC may issue a Finding of Violation that identifies the violation. A Finding of Violation may also convey OFAC's concerns about the violation and/or the Subject Person's OFAC compliance policies, practices and/or procedures, and/or identify the need for further compliance steps to be taken. A Finding of Violation represents a final enforcement response to the violation, unless OFAC later learns of additional related violations or other relevant facts, and constitutes a final agency determination that a violation has occurred. A Finding of Violation will afford the Subject Person an opportunity to respond to OFAC's determination that a violation has occurred before that determination becomes final. In the event a Subject Person so responds, the initial Finding of Violation will not constitute a final agency determination that a violation has occurred. In such cases, after considering the response received, OFAC will inform the Subject Person of its final enforcement response to the apparent violation.
Finding of Violation:
If OFAC determines that a violation has occurred and considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation and, based on an analysis of the General Factors outlined in Section III of these Guidelines, concludes that the Subject Person's conduct warrants an administrative response but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response, OFAC may issue a Finding of Violation that identifies the violation. A Finding of Violation may also convey OFAC's concerns about the violation and/or the Subject Person's OFAC compliance policies, practices and/or procedures, and/or identify the need for further compliance steps to be taken. A Finding of Violation represents a final enforcement response to the violation, unless OFAC later learns of additional related violations or other relevant facts, and constitutes a final agency determination that a violation has occurred. A Finding of Violation will afford the Subject Person an opportunity to respond to OFAC's determination that a violation has occurred before that determination becomes final. In the event a Subject Person so responds, the initial Finding of Violation will not constitute a final agency determination that a violation has occurred. In such cases, after considering the response received, OFAC will inform the Subject Person of its final enforcement response to the apparent violation.
E. Civil Monetary Penalty. If OFAC determines that a violation has occurred and, based on an analysis of the General Factors outlined in Section III of these Guidelines, concludes that the Subject Person's conduct warrants the imposition of a monetary penalty, OFAC may impose a civil monetary penalty. Civil monetary penalty amounts will be determined as discussed in Section V of these Guidelines. The imposition of a civil monetary penalty constitutes a final agency determination that a violation has occurred and represents a final civil enforcement response to the violation. OFAC will afford the Subject Person an opportunity to respond to OFAC's determination that a violation has occurred before a final penalty is imposed.
Civil Monetary Penalty.
If OFAC determines that a violation has occurred and, based on an analysis of the General Factors outlined in Section III of these Guidelines, concludes that the Subject Person's conduct warrants the imposition of a monetary penalty, OFAC may impose a civil monetary penalty. Civil monetary penalty amounts will be determined as discussed in Section V of these Guidelines. The imposition of a civil monetary penalty constitutes a final agency determination that a violation has occurred and represents a final civil enforcement response to the violation. OFAC will afford the Subject Person an opportunity to respond to OFAC's determination that a violation has occurred before a final penalty is imposed.
F. Criminal Referral. In appropriate circumstances, OFAC may refer the matter to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. Apparent sanctions violations that OFAC has referred for criminal investigation and/or prosecution also may be subject to OFAC civil penalty or other administrative action.
Criminal Referral.
In appropriate circumstances, OFAC may refer the matter to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. Apparent sanctions violations that OFAC has referred for criminal investigation and/or prosecution also may be subject to OFAC civil penalty or other administrative action.
G. Other Administrative Actions. In addition to or in lieu of other administrative actions, OFAC may also take the following administrative actions in response to an apparent violation:
Other Administrative Actions.
In addition to or in lieu of other administrative actions, OFAC may also take the following administrative actions in response to an apparent violation:
1. License Denial, Suspension, Modification, or Revocation. OFAC authorizations to engage in a transaction (including the release of blocked funds) pursuant to a general or specific license may be withheld, denied, suspended, modified, or revoked in response to an apparent violation.
License Denial, Suspension, Modification, or Revocation.
OFAC authorizations to engage in a transaction (including the release of blocked funds) pursuant to a general or specific license may be withheld, denied, suspended, modified, or revoked in response to an apparent violation.
2. Cease and Desist Order. OFAC may order the Subject Person to cease and desist from conduct that is prohibited by any of the sanctions programs enforced by OFAC when OFAC has reason to believe that a Subject Person has engaged in such conduct and/or that such conduct is ongoing or may recur.
Cease and Desist Order.
OFAC may order the Subject Person to cease and desist from conduct that is prohibited by any of the sanctions programs enforced by OFAC when OFAC has reason to believe that a Subject Person has engaged in such conduct and/or that such conduct is ongoing or may recur.
III. General Factors Affecting Administrative Action
As a general matter, OFAC will consider some or all of the following General Factors in determining the appropriate administrative action in response to an apparent violation of U.S. sanctions by a Subject Person, and, where a civil monetary penalty is imposed, in determining the appropriate amount of any such penalty:
A. Willful or Reckless Violation of Law: a Subject Person's willfulness or recklessness in violating, attempting to violate, conspiring to violate, or causing a violation of the law. Generally, to the extent the conduct at issue is the result of willful conduct or a deliberate intent to violate, attempt to violate, conspire to violate, or cause a violation of the law, the OFAC enforcement response will be stronger. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating willfulness or recklessness are:
Willful or Reckless Violation of Law:
a Subject Person's willfulness or recklessness in violating, attempting to violate, conspiring to violate, or causing a violation of the law. Generally, to the extent the conduct at issue is the result of willful conduct or a deliberate intent to violate, attempt to violate, conspire to violate, or cause a violation of the law, the OFAC enforcement response will be stronger. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating willfulness or recklessness are:
1. Willfulness. Was the conduct at issue the result of a decision to take action with the knowledge that such action would constitute a violation of U.S. law? Did the Subject Person know that the underlying conduct constituted, or likely constituted, a violation of U.S. law at the time of the conduct?
Willfulness.
Was the conduct at issue the result of a decision to take action with the knowledge that such action would constitute a violation of U.S. law? Did the Subject Person know that the underlying conduct constituted, or likely constituted, a violation of U.S. law at the time of the conduct?
2. Recklessness. Did the Subject Person demonstrate reckless disregard for U.S. sanctions requirements or otherwise fail to exercise a minimal degree of caution or care in avoiding conduct that led to the apparent violation? Were there warning signs that should have alerted the Subject Person that an action or failure to act would lead to an apparent violation?
Recklessness.
Did the Subject Person demonstrate reckless disregard for U.S. sanctions requirements or otherwise fail to exercise a minimal degree of caution or care in avoiding conduct that led to the apparent violation? Were there warning signs that should have alerted the Subject Person that an action or failure to act would lead to an apparent violation?
3. Concealment. Was there an effort by the Subject Person to hide or purposely obfuscate its conduct in order to mislead OFAC, Federal, State, or foreign regulators, or other parties involved in the conduct about an apparent violation?
Concealment.
Was there an effort by the Subject Person to hide or purposely obfuscate its conduct in order to mislead OFAC, Federal, State, or foreign regulators, or other parties involved in the conduct about an apparent violation?
4. Pattern of Conduct. Did the apparent violation constitute or result from a pattern or practice of conduct or was it relatively isolated and atypical in nature?
Pattern of Conduct.
Did the apparent violation constitute or result from a pattern or practice of conduct or was it relatively isolated and atypical in nature?
5. Prior Notice. Was the Subject Person on notice, or should it reasonably have been on notice, that the conduct at issue, or similar conduct, constituted a violation of U.S. law?
Prior Notice.
Was the Subject Person on notice, or should it reasonably have been on notice, that the conduct at issue, or similar conduct, constituted a violation of U.S. law?
6. Management Involvement. In cases of entities, at what level within the organization did the willful or reckless conduct occur? Were supervisory or managerial level staff aware, or should they reasonably have been aware, of the willful or reckless conduct?
Management Involvement.
In cases of entities, at what level within the organization did the willful or reckless conduct occur? Were supervisory or managerial level staff aware, or should they reasonably have been aware, of the willful or reckless conduct?
B. Awareness of Conduct at Issue: the Subject Person's awareness of the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. Generally, the greater a Subject Person's actual knowledge of, or reason to know about, the conduct constituting an apparent violation, the stronger the OFAC enforcement response will be. In the case of a corporation, awareness will focus on supervisory or managerial level staff in the business unit at issue, as well as other senior officers and managers. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating the Subject Person's awareness of the conduct at issue are:
Awareness of Conduct at Issue:
the Subject Person's awareness of the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. Generally, the greater a Subject Person's actual knowledge of, or reason to know about, the conduct constituting an apparent violation, the stronger the OFAC enforcement response will be. In the case of a corporation, awareness will focus on supervisory or managerial level staff in the business unit at issue, as well as other senior officers and managers. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating the Subject Person's awareness of the conduct at issue are:
1. Actual Knowledge. Did the Subject Person have actual knowledge that the conduct giving rise to an apparent violation took place? Was the conduct part of a business process, structure or arrangement that was designed or implemented with the intent to prevent or shield the Subject Person from having such actual knowledge, or was the conduct part of a business process, structure or arrangement implemented for other legitimate reasons that made it difficult or impossible for the Subject Person to have actual knowledge?
Actual Knowledge.
Did the Subject Person have actual knowledge that the conduct giving rise to an apparent violation took place? Was the conduct part of a business process, structure or arrangement that was designed or implemented with the intent to prevent or shield the Subject Person from having such actual knowledge, or was the conduct part of a business process, structure or arrangement implemented for other legitimate reasons that made it difficult or impossible for the Subject Person to have actual knowledge?
2. Reason to Know. If the Subject Person did not have actual knowledge that the conduct took place, did the Subject Person have reason to know, or should the Subject Person reasonably have known, based on all readily available information and with the exercise of reasonable due diligence, that the conduct would or might take place?
Reason to Know.
If the Subject Person did not have actual knowledge that the conduct took place, did the Subject Person have reason to know, or should the Subject Person reasonably have known, based on all readily available information and with the exercise of reasonable due diligence, that the conduct would or might take place?
3. Management Involvement. In the case of an entity, was the conduct undertaken with the explicit or implicit knowledge of senior management, or was the conduct undertaken by personnel outside the knowledge of senior management? If the apparent violation was undertaken without the knowledge of senior management, was there oversight intended to detect and prevent violations, or did the lack of knowledge by senior management result from disregard for its responsibility to comply with applicable sanctions laws?
Management Involvement.
In the case of an entity, was the conduct undertaken with the explicit or implicit knowledge of senior management, or was the conduct undertaken by personnel outside the knowledge of senior management? If the apparent violation was undertaken without the knowledge of senior management, was there oversight intended to detect and prevent violations, or did the lack of knowledge by senior management result from disregard for its responsibility to comply with applicable sanctions laws?
C. Harm to Sanctions Program Objectives: the actual or potential harm to sanctions program objectives caused by the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating the harm to sanctions program objectives are:
Harm to Sanctions Program Objectives:
the actual or potential harm to sanctions program objectives caused by the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating the harm to sanctions program objectives are:
1. Economic or Other Benefit to the Sanctioned Individual, Entity, or Country: the economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred to sanctioned individuals, entities, or countries as a result of an apparent violation, including the number, size, and impact of the transactions constituting an apparent violation(s), the length of time over which they occurred, and the nature of the economic or other benefit conferred. OFAC may also consider the causal link between the Subject Person's conduct and the economic benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred.
Economic or Other Benefit to the Sanctioned Individual, Entity, or Country:
the economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred to sanctioned individuals, entities, or countries as a result of an apparent violation, including the number, size, and impact of the transactions constituting an apparent violation(s), the length of time over which they occurred, and the nature of the economic or other benefit conferred. OFAC may also consider the causal link between the Subject Person's conduct and the economic benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred.
2. Implications for U.S. Policy: the effect that the circumstances of the apparent violation had on the integrity of the U.S. sanctions program and the related policy objectives involved.
Implications for U.S. Policy:
the effect that the circumstances of the apparent violation had on the integrity of the U.S. sanctions program and the related policy objectives involved.
3. License Eligibility: whether the conduct constituting the apparent violation likely would have been licensed by OFAC under existing licensing policy.
License Eligibility:
whether the conduct constituting the apparent violation likely would have been licensed by OFAC under existing licensing policy.
4. Humanitarian activity: whether the conduct at issue was in support of a humanitarian activity.
Humanitarian activity:
whether the conduct at issue was in support of a humanitarian activity.
D. Individual Characteristics: the particular circumstances and characteristics of a Subject Person. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating individual characteristics are:
Individual Characteristics:
the particular circumstances and characteristics of a Subject Person. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating individual characteristics are:
1. Commercial Sophistication: the commercial sophistication and experience of the Subject Person. Is the Subject Person an individual or an entity? If an individual, was the conduct constituting the apparent violation for personal or business reasons?
Commercial Sophistication:
the commercial sophistication and experience of the Subject Person. Is the Subject Person an individual or an entity? If an individual, was the conduct constituting the apparent violation for personal or business reasons?
2. Size of Operations and Financial Condition: the size of a Subject Person's business operations and overall financial condition, where such information is available and relevant. Qualification of the Subject Person as a small business or organization for the purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act, as determined by reference to the applicable regulations of the Small Business Administration, may also be considered.
Size of Operations and Financial Condition:
the size of a Subject Person's business operations and overall financial condition, where such information is available and relevant. Qualification of the Subject Person as a small business or organization for the purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act, as determined by reference to the applicable regulations of the Small Business Administration, may also be considered.
3. Volume of Transactions: the total volume of transactions undertaken by the Subject Person on an annual basis, with attention given to the apparent violations as compared with the total volume.
Volume of Transactions:
the total volume of transactions undertaken by the Subject Person on an annual basis, with attention given to the apparent violations as compared with the total volume.
4. Sanctions History: the Subject Person's sanctions history, including OFAC's issuance of prior penalties, findings of violations or cautionary, warning or evaluative letters, or other administrative actions (including settlements). As a general matter, OFAC will only consider a Subject Person's sanctions history for the five years preceding the date of the transaction giving rise to the apparent violation.
Sanctions History:
the Subject Person's sanctions history, including OFAC's issuance of prior penalties, findings of violations or cautionary, warning or evaluative letters, or other administrative actions (including settlements). As a general matter, OFAC will only consider a Subject Person's sanctions history for the five years preceding the date of the transaction giving rise to the apparent violation.
E. Compliance Program: the existence, nature and adequacy of a Subject Person's risk-based OFAC compliance program at the time of the apparent violation, where relevant. In the case of an institution subject to regulation where OFAC has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Subject Person's regulator, OFAC will follow the procedures set forth in such MOU regarding consultation with the regulator with regard to the quality and effectiveness of the Subject Person's compliance program. Even in the absence of an MOU, OFAC may take into consideration the views of federal, state, or foreign regulators, where relevant. Further information about risk-based compliance programs for financial institutions is set forth in the annex hereto.
Compliance Program:
the existence, nature and adequacy of a Subject Person's risk-based OFAC compliance program at the time of the apparent violation, where relevant. In the case of an institution subject to regulation where OFAC has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Subject Person's regulator, OFAC will follow the procedures set forth in such MOU regarding consultation with the regulator with regard to the quality and effectiveness of the Subject Person's compliance program. Even in the absence of an MOU, OFAC may take into consideration the views of federal, state, or foreign regulators, where relevant. Further information about risk-based compliance programs for financial institutions is set forth in the annex hereto.
F. Remedial Response: the Subject Person's corrective action taken in response to the apparent violation. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating the remedial response are:
Remedial Response:
the Subject Person's corrective action taken in response to the apparent violation. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating the remedial response are:
1. The steps taken by the Subject Person upon learning of the apparent violation. Did the Subject Person immediately stop the conduct at issue?
2. In the case of an entity, the processes followed to resolve issues related to the apparent violation. Did the Subject Person discover necessary information to ascertain the causes and extent of the apparent violation, fully and expeditiously? Was senior management fully informed? If so, when?
3. In the case of an entity, whether the Subject Person adopted new and more effective internal controls and procedures to prevent a recurrence of the apparent violation. If the Subject Person did not have an OFAC compliance program in place at the time of the apparent violation, did it implement one upon discovery of the apparent violations? If it did have an OFAC compliance program, did it take appropriate steps to enhance the program to prevent the recurrence of similar violations? Did the entity provide the individual(s) responsible for the apparent violation with additional training, and/or take other appropriate action, to ensure that similar violations do not occur in the future?
4. Where applicable, whether the Subject Person undertook a thorough review to identify other possible violations.
G. Cooperation with OFAC: the nature and extent of the Subject Person's cooperation with OFAC. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating cooperation with OFAC are:
Cooperation with OFAC:
the nature and extent of the Subject Person's cooperation with OFAC. Among the factors OFAC may consider in evaluating cooperation with OFAC are:
1. Did the Subject Person voluntarily self-disclose the apparent violation to OFAC?
2. Did the Subject Person provide OFAC with all relevant information regarding an apparent violation (whether or not voluntarily self-disclosed)?
3. Did the Subject Person research and disclose to OFAC relevant information regarding any other apparent violations caused by the same course of conduct?
4. Was information provided voluntarily or in response to an administrative subpoena?
5. Did the Subject Person cooperate with, and promptly respond to, all requests for information?
6. Did the Subject Person enter into a statute of limitations tolling agreement, if requested by OFAC (particularly in situations where the apparent violations were not immediately notified to or discovered by OFAC, in particularly complex cases, and in cases in which the Subject Person has requested and received additional time to respond to a request for information from OFAC)? If so, the Subject Person's entering into a tolling agreement will be deemed a mitigating factor.
Note:
A Subject Person's refusal to enter into a tolling agreement will not be considered by OFAC as an aggravating factor in assessing a Subject Person's cooperation or otherwise under the Guidelines.
Where appropriate, OFAC will publicly note substantial cooperation provided by a Subject Person.
H. Timing of apparent violation in relation to imposition of sanctions: the timing of the apparent violation in relation to the adoption of the applicable prohibitions, particularly if the apparent violation took place immediately after relevant changes in the sanctions program regulations or the addition of a new name to OFAC's List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List).
Timing of apparent violation in relation to imposition of sanctions:
the timing of the apparent violation in relation to the adoption of the applicable prohibitions, particularly if the apparent violation took place immediately after relevant changes in the sanctions program regulations or the addition of a new name to OFAC's List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List).
I. Other enforcement action: other enforcement actions taken by federal, state, or local agencies against the Subject Person for the apparent violation or similar apparent violations, including whether the settlement of alleged violations of OFAC regulations is part of a comprehensive settlement with other federal, state, or local agencies.
Other enforcement action:
other enforcement actions taken by federal, state, or local agencies against the Subject Person for the apparent violation or similar apparent violations, including whether the settlement of alleged violations of OFAC regulations is part of a comprehensive settlement with other federal, state, or local agencies.
J. Future Compliance/Deterrence Effect: the impact administrative action may have on promoting future compliance with U.S. economic sanctions by the Subject Person and similar Subject Persons, particularly those in the same industry sector.
Future Compliance/Deterrence Effect:
the impact administrative action may have on promoting future compliance with U.S. economic sanctions by the Subject Person and similar Subject Persons, particularly those in the same industry sector.
K. Other relevant factors on a case-by-case basis: such other factors that OFAC deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the appropriate enforcement response and/or the amount of any civil monetary penalty. OFAC will consider the totality of the circumstances to ensure that its enforcement response is proportionate to the nature of the violation.
Other relevant factors on a case-by-case basis:
such other factors that OFAC deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the appropriate enforcement response and/or the amount of any civil monetary penalty. OFAC will consider the totality of the circumstances to ensure that its enforcement response is proportionate to the nature of the violation.
IV. Civil Penalties for Failure To Comply With a Requirement To Furnish Information or Keep Records
As a general matter, the following civil penalty amounts shall apply to a Subject Person's failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or maintain records:
A. The failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information pursuant to 31 CFR 501.602 may result in a penalty in an amount up to $29,150, irrespective of whether any other violation is alleged. Where OFAC has reason to believe that the apparent violation(s) that is the subject of the requirement to furnish information involves a transaction(s) valued at greater than $500,000, a failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information may result in a penalty in an amount up to $72,876, irrespective of whether any other violation is alleged. A failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information may be considered a continuing violation, and the penalties described above may be imposed each month that a party has continued to fail to comply with the requirement to furnish information. OFAC may also seek to have a requirement to furnish information judicially enforced. Imposition of a civil monetary penalty for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information does not preclude OFAC from seeking such judicial enforcement of the requirement to furnish information.
B. The late filing of a required report, whether set forth in regulations or in a specific license, may result in a civil monetary penalty in an amount up to $3,550, if filed within the first 30 days after the report is due, and a penalty in an amount up to $7,104 if filed more than 30 days after the report is due. If the report relates to blocked assets, the penalty may include an additional $1,422 for every 30 days that the report is overdue, up to 10 years.
V. Civil Penalties
OFAC will review the facts and circumstances surrounding an apparent violation and apply the General Factors for Taking Administrative Action in Section III above in determining whether to initiate a civil penalty proceeding and in determining the amount of any civil monetary penalty. OFAC will give careful consideration to the appropriateness of issuing a cautionary letter or Finding of Violation in lieu of the imposition of a civil monetary penalty.
A. Civil Penalty Process
1. Pre-Penalty Notice. If OFAC has reason to believe that a sanctions violation has occurred and believes that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, it will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice in accordance with the procedures set forth in the particular regulations governing the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. The amount of the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice will reflect OFAC's preliminary assessment of the appropriate penalty amount, based on information then in OFAC's possession. The amount of the final penalty may change as OFAC learns additional relevant information. If, after issuance of a Pre-Penalty Notice, OFAC determines that a penalty in an amount that represents an increase of more than 10 percent from the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice is appropriate, or if OFAC intends to allege additional violations, it will issue a revised Pre-Penalty Notice setting forth the new proposed penalty amount and/or alleged violations.
Pre-Penalty Notice.
If OFAC has reason to believe that a sanctions violation has occurred and believes that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, it will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice in accordance with the procedures set forth in the particular regulations governing the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. The amount of the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice will reflect OFAC's preliminary assessment of the appropriate penalty amount, based on information then in OFAC's possession. The amount of the final penalty may change as OFAC learns additional relevant information. If, after issuance of a Pre-Penalty Notice, OFAC determines that a penalty in an amount that represents an increase of more than 10 percent from the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice is appropriate, or if OFAC intends to allege additional violations, it will issue a revised Pre-Penalty Notice setting forth the new proposed penalty amount and/or alleged violations.
a. In general, the Pre-Penalty Notice will set forth the following with respect to the specific violations alleged and the proposed penalties:
i. Description of the alleged violations, including the number of violations and their value, for which a penalty is being proposed;
ii. Identification of the regulatory or other provisions alleged to have been violated;
iii. Identification of the base category (defined below) according to which the proposed penalty amount was calculated and the General Factors that were most relevant to the determination of the proposed penalty amount;
iv. The maximum amount of the penalty to which the Subject Person could be subject under applicable law; and
v. The proposed penalty amount, determined in accordance with the provisions set forth in these Guidelines.
b. The Pre-Penalty Notice will also include information regarding how to respond to the Pre-Penalty Notice including:
i. A statement that the Subject Person may submit a written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice by a date certain addressing the alleged violation(s), the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in Section III of these Guidelines, and any other information or evidence that the Subject Person deems relevant to OFAC's consideration.
ii. A statement that a failure to respond to the Pre-Penalty Notice may result in the imposition of a civil monetary penalty.
2. Response to Pre-Penalty Notice. A Subject Person may submit a written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice in accordance with the procedures set forth in the particular regulations governing the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. Generally, the response should either agree to the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice or set forth reasons why a penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be a lesser amount than proposed, with particular attention paid to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in Section III of these Guidelines. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the Subject Person that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted.
Response to Pre-Penalty Notice.
A Subject Person may submit a written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice in accordance with the procedures set forth in the particular regulations governing the conduct giving rise to the apparent violation. Generally, the response should either agree to the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice or set forth reasons why a penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be a lesser amount than proposed, with particular attention paid to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in Section III of these Guidelines. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the Subject Person that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted.
3. Penalty Notice. If OFAC receives no response to a Pre-Penalty Notice within the time prescribed in the Pre-Penalty Notice, or if following the receipt of a response to a Pre-Penalty Notice and a review of the information and evidence contained therein OFAC concludes that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, a Penalty Notice generally will be issued in accordance with the procedures set forth in the particular regulations governing the conduct giving rise to the violation. A Penalty Notice constitutes a final agency determination that a violation has occurred. The penalty amount set forth in the Penalty Notice will take into account relevant additional information provided in response to a Pre-Penalty Notice. In the absence of a response to a Pre-Penalty Notice, the penalty amount set forth in the Penalty Notice will generally be the same as the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice.
Penalty Notice.
If OFAC receives no response to a Pre-Penalty Notice within the time prescribed in the Pre-Penalty Notice, or if following the receipt of a response to a Pre-Penalty Notice and a review of the information and evidence contained therein OFAC concludes that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, a Penalty Notice generally will be issued in accordance with the procedures set forth in the particular regulations governing the conduct giving rise to the violation. A Penalty Notice constitutes a final agency determination that a violation has occurred. The penalty amount set forth in the Penalty Notice will take into account relevant additional information provided in response to a Pre-Penalty Notice. In the absence of a response to a Pre-Penalty Notice, the penalty amount set forth in the Penalty Notice will generally be the same as the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice.
4. Referral to Financial Management Division. The imposition of a civil monetary penalty pursuant to a Penalty Notice creates a debt due the U.S. Government. OFAC will advise Treasury's Financial Management Division upon the imposition of a penalty. The Financial Management Division may take follow-up action to collect the penalty assessed if it is not paid within the prescribed time period set forth in the Penalty Notice. In addition or instead, the matter may be referred to the U.S. Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty.
Referral to Financial Management Division.
The imposition of a civil monetary penalty pursuant to a Penalty Notice creates a debt due the U.S. Government. OFAC will advise Treasury's Financial Management Division upon the imposition of a penalty. The Financial Management Division may take follow-up action to collect the penalty assessed if it is not paid within the prescribed time period set forth in the Penalty Notice. In addition or instead, the matter may be referred to the U.S. Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty.
5. Final Agency Action. The issuance of a Penalty Notice constitutes final agency action with respect to the violation(s) for which the penalty is assessed.
Final Agency Action.
The issuance of a Penalty Notice constitutes final agency action with respect to the violation(s) for which the penalty is assessed.
B. Amount of Civil Penalty
1. Egregious case. In those cases in which a civil monetary penalty is deemed appropriate, OFAC will make a determination as to whether a case is deemed “egregious” for purposes of the base penalty calculation. This determination will be based on an analysis of the applicable General Factors. In making the egregiousness determination, OFAC generally will give substantial weight to General Factors A (“willful or reckless violation of law”), B (“awareness of conduct at issue”), C (“harm to sanctions program objectives”) and D (“individual characteristics”), with particular emphasis on General Factors A and B. A case will be considered an “egregious case” where the analysis of the applicable General Factors, with a focus on those General Factors identified above, indicates that the case represents a particularly serious violation of the law calling for a strong enforcement response. A determination that a case is “egregious” will be made by the Director or Deputy Director.
Egregious case.
In those cases in which a civil monetary penalty is deemed appropriate, OFAC will make a determination as to whether a case is deemed “egregious” for purposes of the base penalty calculation. This determination will be based on an analysis of the applicable General Factors. In making the egregiousness determination, OFAC generally will give substantial weight to General Factors A (“willful or reckless violation of law”), B (“awareness of conduct at issue”), C (“harm to sanctions program objectives”) and D (“individual characteristics”), with particular emphasis on General Factors A and B. A case will be considered an “egregious case” where the analysis of the applicable General Factors, with a focus on those General Factors identified above, indicates that the case represents a particularly serious violation of the law calling for a strong enforcement response. A determination that a case is “egregious” will be made by the Director or Deputy Director.
2. Pre-Penalty Notice. The penalty amount proposed in a Pre-Penalty Notice shall generally be calculated as follows, except that neither the base amount nor the proposed penalty will exceed the applicable statutory maximum amount: 
6
Pre-Penalty Notice.
The penalty amount proposed in a Pre-Penalty Notice shall generally be calculated as follows, except that neither the base amount nor the proposed penalty will exceed the applicable statutory maximum amount:
6
6 For apparent violations identified in the Cuba Penalty Schedule, 68 Fed. Reg. 4429 (Jan. 29, 2003), for which a civil monetary penalty has been deemed appropriate, the base penalty amount shall equal the amount set forth in the Schedule for such violation, except that the base penalty amount shall be reduced by 50% in cases of voluntary self-disclosure.
6
For apparent violations identified in the Cuba Penalty Schedule, 68 Fed. Reg. 4429 (Jan. 29, 2003), for which a civil monetary penalty has been deemed appropriate, the base penalty amount shall equal the amount set forth in the Schedule for such violation, except that the base penalty amount shall be reduced by 50% in cases of voluntary self-disclosure.
a. Base Category Calculation
i. In a non-egregious case, if the apparent violation is disclosed through a voluntary self-disclosure by the Subject Person, the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be one-half of the transaction value, capped at a maximum base amount of $188,850 per violation, except where the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the apparent violation is less than $377,700, in which case the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be capped at one-half the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the apparent violation.
ii. In a non-egregious case, if the apparent violation comes to OFAC's attention by means other than a voluntary self-disclosure, the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be the “applicable schedule amount,” as defined above. For apparent violations where the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the apparent violation is $377,700 or greater, the maximum base amount shall be capped at $377,700. For apparent violations where the statutory maximum penalty applicable to the apparent violation is less than $377,700, the maximum base amount shall be capped at the statutory maximum penalty amount applicable to the apparent violation.
iii. In an egregious case, if the apparent violation is disclosed through a voluntary self-disclosure by a Subject Person, the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be one-half of the applicable statutory maximum penalty applicable to the violation.
iv. In an egregious case, if the apparent violation comes to OFAC's attention by means other than a voluntary self-disclosure, the base amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice shall be the applicable statutory maximum penalty amount applicable to the violation.
v. The applicable statutory maximum civil penalty per violation for each statute enforced by OFAC is as follows: International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA)—greater of $377,700 or twice the amount of the underlying transaction; Trading with the Enemy Act (TWEA)— $111,308; Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (FNKDA)— $1,876,699; Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA)—greater of $99,703 or twice the amount of which a financial institution was required to retain possession or control; and Clean Diamond Trade Act (CDTA)—$17,062. The civil penalty amounts authorized under these statutes are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
vi. The following matrix represents the base amount of the proposed civil penalty for each category of violation:
b. Adjustment for Applicable Relevant General Factors
The base amount of the proposed civil penalty may be adjusted to reflect applicable General Factors for Administrative Action set forth in Section III of these Guidelines. Each factor may be considered mitigating or aggravating, resulting in a lower or higher proposed penalty amount. As a general matter, in those cases where the following General Factors are present, OFAC will adjust the base proposed penalty amount in the following manner:
i. In cases involving substantial cooperation with OFAC but no voluntary self-disclosure as defined herein, including cases in which an apparent violation is reported to OFAC by a third party but the Subject Person provides substantial additional information regarding the apparent violation and/or other related violations, the base penalty amount generally will be reduced between 25 and 40 percent. Substantial cooperation in cases involving voluntary self-disclosure may also be considered as a further mitigating factor.
ii. In cases involving a Subject Person's first violation, the base penalty amount generally will be reduced up to 25 percent. An apparent violation generally will be considered a “first violation” if the Subject Person has not received a penalty notice or Finding of Violation from OFAC in the five years preceding the date of the transaction giving rise to the apparent violation. A group of substantially similar apparent violations addressed in a single Pre-Penalty Notice shall be considered as a single violation for purposes of this subsection. In those cases where a prior penalty notice or Finding of Violation within the preceding five years involved conduct of a substantially different nature from the apparent violation at issue, OFAC may consider the apparent violation at issue a “first violation.” In determining the extent of any mitigation for a first violation, OFAC may consider any prior OFAC enforcement action taken with respect to the Subject Person, including any cautionary, warning or evaluative letters issued, or any civil monetary settlements entered into with OFAC.
In all cases, the proposed penalty amount will not exceed the applicable statutory maximum.
In cases involving a large number of apparent violations, where the transaction value of all apparent violations is either unknown or would require a disproportionate allocation of resources to determine, OFAC may estimate or extrapolate the transaction value of the total universe of apparent violations in determining the amount of any proposed civil monetary penalty.
3. Penalty Notice. The amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice will be the presumptive starting point for calculation of the civil penalty amount in the Penalty Notice. OFAC may adjust the penalty amount in the Penalty Notice based on:
Penalty Notice.
The amount of the proposed civil penalty in the Pre-Penalty Notice will be the presumptive starting point for calculation of the civil penalty amount in the Penalty Notice. OFAC may adjust the penalty amount in the Penalty Notice based on:
a. Evidence presented by the Subject Person in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, or otherwise received by OFAC with respect to the underlying violation(s); and/or
b. Any modification resulting from further review and reconsideration by OFAC of the proposed civil monetary penalty in light of the General Factors for Administrative Action set forth in Section III above.
In no event will the amount of the civil monetary penalty in the Penalty Notice exceed the proposed penalty set forth in the Pre-Penalty Notice by more than 10 percent, or include additional alleged violations, unless a revised Pre-Penalty Notice has first been sent to the Subject Person as set forth above. In the event that OFAC determines upon further review that no penalty is appropriate, it will so inform the Subject Person in a no-action letter, a cautionary letter, or a Finding of Violation.
C. Settlements
A settlement does not constitute a final agency determination that a violation has occurred.
1. Settlement Process. Settlement discussions may be initiated by OFAC, the Subject Person or the Subject Person's authorized representative. Settlements generally will be negotiated in accordance with the principles set forth in these Guidelines with respect to appropriate penalty amounts. OFAC may condition the entry into or continuation of settlement negotiations on the execution of a tolling agreement with respect to the statute of limitations.
Settlement Process.
Settlement discussions may be initiated by OFAC, the Subject Person or the Subject Person's authorized representative. Settlements generally will be negotiated in accordance with the principles set forth in these Guidelines with respect to appropriate penalty amounts. OFAC may condition the entry into or continuation of settlement negotiations on the execution of a tolling agreement with respect to the statute of limitations.
2. Settlement Prior to Issuance of Pre-Penalty Notice. Where settlement discussions occur prior to the issuance of a Pre-Penalty Notice, the Subject Person may request in writing that OFAC withhold issuance of a Pre-Penalty Notice pending the conclusion of settlement discussions. OFAC will generally agree to such a request as long as settlement discussions are continuing in good faith and the statute of limitations is not at risk of expiring.
Settlement Prior to Issuance of Pre-Penalty Notice.
Where settlement discussions occur prior to the issuance of a Pre-Penalty Notice, the Subject Person may request in writing that OFAC withhold issuance of a Pre-Penalty Notice pending the conclusion of settlement discussions. OFAC will generally agree to such a request as long as settlement discussions are continuing in good faith and the statute of limitations is not at risk of expiring.
3. Settlement Following Issuance of Pre-Penalty Notice. If a matter is settled after a Pre-Penalty Notice has been issued, but before a final Penalty Notice is issued, OFAC will not make a final determination as to whether a sanctions violation has occurred. In the event no settlement is reached, the period specified for written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by OFAC.
Settlement Following Issuance of Pre-Penalty Notice.
If a matter is settled after a Pre-Penalty Notice has been issued, but before a final Penalty Notice is issued, OFAC will not make a final determination as to whether a sanctions violation has occurred. In the event no settlement is reached, the period specified for written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by OFAC.
4. Settlements of Multiple Apparent Violations. A settlement initiated for one apparent violation may also involve a comprehensive or global settlement of multiple apparent violations covered by other Pre-Penalty Notices, apparent violations for which a Pre-Penalty Notice has not yet been issued by OFAC, or previously unknown apparent violations reported to OFAC during the pendency of an investigation of an apparent violation.
Settlements of Multiple Apparent Violations.
A settlement initiated for one apparent violation may also involve a comprehensive or global settlement of multiple apparent violations covered by other Pre-Penalty Notices, apparent violations for which a Pre-Penalty Notice has not yet been issued by OFAC, or previously unknown apparent violations reported to OFAC during the pendency of an investigation of an apparent violation.
Annex
The following matrix can be used by financial institutions to evaluate their compliance programs:
OFAC Risk Matrix
Low
Moderate
High
Stable, well-known customer base in a localized environment
Customer base changing due to branching, merger, or acquisition in the domestic market
A large, fluctuating client base in an international environment.
Few high-risk customers; these may include nonresident aliens, foreign customers (including accounts with U.S. powers of attorney), and foreign commercial customers
A moderate number of high-risk customers
A large number of high-risk customers.
No overseas branches and no correspondent accounts with foreign banks
Overseas branches or correspondent accounts with foreign banks
Overseas branches or multiple correspondent accounts with foreign banks.
No electronic services (
e.g.,
e-banking) offered, or products available are purely informational or non-transactional
The institution offers limited electronic (
e.g.,
e-banking) products and services
The institution offers a wide array of electronic (
e.g.,
e-banking) products and services (
i.e.,
account transfers, e-bill payment, or accounts opened via the Internet).
Limited number of funds transfers for customers and non-customers, limited third-party transactions, and no international funds transfers
A moderate number of funds transfers, mostly for customers. Possibly, a few international funds transfers from personal or business accounts
A high number of customer and non-customer funds transfers, including international funds transfers.
No other types of international transactions, such as trade finance, cross-border ACH, and management of sovereign debt
Limited other types of international transactions
A high number of other types of international transactions.
No history of OFAC actions. No evidence of apparent violation or circumstances that might lead to a violation
A small number of recent actions (
i.e.,
actions within the last five years) by OFAC, including notice letters, or civil money penalties, with evidence that the institution addressed the issues and is not at risk of similar violations in the future
Multiple recent actions by OFAC, where the institution has not addressed the issues, thus leading to an increased risk of the institution undertaking similar violations in the future.
Management has fully assessed the institution's level of risk based on its customer base and product lines. This understanding of risk and strong commitment to OFAC compliance is satisfactorily communicated throughout the organization
Management exhibits a reasonable understanding of the key aspects of OFAC compliance and its commitment is generally clear and satisfactorily communicated throughout the organization, but it may lack a program appropriately tailored to risk
Management does not understand, or has chosen to ignore, key aspects of OFAC compliance risk. The importance of compliance is not emphasized or communicated throughout the organization.
The board of directors, or board committee, has approved an OFAC compliance program that includes policies, procedures, controls, and information systems that are adequate, and consistent with the institution's OFAC risk profile
The board has approved an OFAC compliance program that includes most of the appropriate policies, procedures, controls, and information systems necessary to ensure compliance, but some weaknesses are noted
The board has not approved an OFAC compliance program, or policies, procedures, controls, and information systems are significantly deficient.
Staffing levels appear adequate to properly execute the OFAC compliance program
Staffing levels appear generally adequate, but some deficiencies are noted
Management has failed to provide appropriate staffing levels to handle workload.
Authority and accountability for OFAC compliance are clearly defined and enforced, including the designation of a qualified OFAC officer
Authority and accountability are defined, but some refinements are needed. A qualified OFAC officer has been designated
Authority and accountability for compliance have not been clearly established. No OFAC compliance officer, or an unqualified one, has been appointed. The role of the OFAC officer is unclear.
Training is appropriate and effective based on the institution's risk profile, covers applicable personnel, and provides necessary up-to-date information and resources to ensure compliance
Training is conducted and management provides adequate resources given the risk profile of the organization; however, some areas are not covered within the training program
Training is sporadic and does not cover important regulatory and risk areas or is nonexistent.
The institution employs strong quality control methods
The institution employs limited quality control methods
The institution does not employ quality control methods.
[[74 FR 57601, Nov. 9, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 43073, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10435, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11877, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27715, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19885, Apr. 9, 2020; 85 FR 48475, Aug. 11, 2020; 85 FR 54914, Sept. 3, 2020; 86 FR 14536, Mar. 17, 2021; 86 FR 18896, Apr. 12, 2021; 87 FR 3206, Jan. 21, 2022; 87 FR 7370, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2231, Jan. 13, 2023; 88 FR 23340, Apr. 17, 2023; 89 FR 2140, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3689, Jan. 15, 2025; 89 FR 74834, Sept. 13, 2024]]

PART 510—NORTH KOREA SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 287c, 9201-9255; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.); E.O. 13466, 73 FR 36787, 3 CFR, 2008 Comp., p. 195; E.O. 13551, 75 FR 53837, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 242; E.O. 13570, 76 FR 22291, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 233; E.O. 13687, 80 FR 819, 3 CFR, 2015 Comp., p. 259; E.O. 13722, 81 FR 14943, 3 CFR, 2016 Comp., p. 446; E.O. 13810, 82 FR 44705, 3 CFR, 2017 Comp., p. 379.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.
; 22 U.S.C. 287c, 9201-9255; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.); E.O. 13466, 73 FR 36787, 3 CFR, 2008 Comp., p. 195; E.O. 13551, 75 FR 53837, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 242; E.O. 13570, 76 FR 22291, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 233; E.O. 13687, 80 FR 819, 3 CFR, 2015 Comp., p. 259; E.O. 13722, 81 FR 14943, 3 CFR, 2016 Comp., p. 446; E.O. 13810, 82 FR 44705, 3 CFR, 2017 Comp., p. 379.
[Source:83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 510.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 510.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a)(1) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.
(2) All property and interests in property of North Korea or a North Korean national that were blocked pursuant to the Trading With the Enemy Act as of June 16, 2000 and remained blocked on June 26, 2008, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.
(3) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) E.O. 13551 Annex. The persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13551 of August 30, 2010;
E.O. 13551 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13551 of August 30, 2010;
(ii) E.O. 13551. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13551.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) To have, directly or indirectly, imported, exported, or reexported to, into, or from North Korea any arms or related materiel;
(B) To have, directly or indirectly, provided training, advice, or other services or assistance, or engaged in financial transactions, related to the manufacture, maintenance, or use of any arms or related materiel to be imported, exported, or reexported to, into, or from North Korea, or following their importation, exportation, or reexportation to, into, or from North Korea;
(C) To have, directly or indirectly, imported, exported, or reexported luxury goods to or into North Korea;
(D) To have, directly or indirectly, engaged in money laundering, the counterfeiting of goods or currency, bulk cash smuggling, narcotics trafficking, or other illicit economic activity that involves or supports the Government of North Korea or any senior official thereof;
(E) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the activities described in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section;
(F) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section; or
(G) To have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section;
(iii) E.O. 13687. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13687.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) To be an agency, instrumentality, or controlled entity of the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea;
(B) To be an official of the Government of North Korea;
(C) To be an official of the Workers' Party of Korea;
(D) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the Government of North Korea or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section; or
(E) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the Government of North Korea or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section;
(iv) E.O. 13722. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13722.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) To operate in any industry in the North Korean economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be subject to paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, such as transportation, mining, energy, or financial services;
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
)(3)(
iv
)(A):
Any industry in the North Korean economy that is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be subject to paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section will be so identified in a publication in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.
(B) To have sold, supplied, transferred, or purchased, directly or indirectly, to or from North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea, metal, graphite, coal, or software, where any revenue or goods received may benefit the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea, including North Korea's nuclear or ballistic missile programs;
(C) To have engaged in, facilitated, or been responsible for an abuse or violation of human rights by the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of either such entity;
(D) To have engaged in, facilitated, or been responsible for the exportation of workers from North Korea, including exportation to generate revenue for the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea;
(E) To have engaged in significant activities undermining cybersecurity through the use of computer networks or systems against targets outside of North Korea on behalf of the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea;
(F) To have engaged in, facilitated, or been responsible for censorship by the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea;
(G) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(3)(iv) of this section;
(H) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(3)(iv) of this section; or
(I) To have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(3)(iv)(A) through (H) of this section;
(v) E.O. 13810 section 1. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13810 section 1.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) To operate in the construction, energy, financial services, fishing, information technology, manufacturing, medical, mining, textiles, or transportation industries in North Korea;
(B) To own, control, or operate any port in North Korea, including any seaport, airport, or land port of entry;
(C) To have engaged in at least one significant importation from or exportation to North Korea of any goods, services, or technology;
(D) To be a North Korean person, including a North Korean person that has engaged in commercial activity that generates revenue for the Government of North Korea or the Workers' Party of Korea;
(E) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section; or
(F) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section;
(vi) E.O. 13810 section 4. Any person that is a foreign financial institution:
E.O. 13810 section 4.
Any person that is a foreign financial institution:
(A) Determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have, on or after September 21, 2017, knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant transaction:
(1) On behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13551, Executive Order 13687, Executive Order 13722, or Executive Order 13810, or of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13382 in connection with North Korea-related activities; or
1
) On behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13551, Executive Order 13687, Executive Order 13722, or Executive Order 13810, or of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13382 in connection with North Korea-related activities; or
(2) In connection with trade with North Korea; and
2
) In connection with trade with North Korea; and
(B) With respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has exercised the authority to block all property and interests in property;
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
)(3)(
vi
):
See § 510.210 for alternative sanctions that can be imposed on a foreign financial institution when the determination specified in paragraph (a)(3)(vi)(A) of this section is made.
(vii) Section 104(a) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, as amended by the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (NKSPEA, as amended). Any person the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly:
Section 104(a) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, as amended by the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (NKSPEA, as amended).
Any person the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly:
(A) Directly or indirectly, imports, exports, or reexports to, into, or from North Korea any goods, services, or technology controlled for export by the United States because of the use of such goods, services, or technology for weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for such weapons and materially contributes to the use, development, production, possession, or acquisition by any person of a nuclear, radiological, chemical, or biological weapon or any device or system designed in whole or in part to deliver such a weapon;
(B) Directly or indirectly, provides training, advice, or other services or assistance, or engages in significant financial transactions, relating to the manufacture, maintenance, or use of any such weapon, device, or system to be imported, exported, or reexported to, into, or from North Korea;
(C) Directly or indirectly, imports, exports, or reexports luxury goods to or into North Korea;
(D) Engages in, is responsible for, or facilitates censorship by the Government of North Korea;
(E) Engages in, is responsible for, or facilitates serious human rights abuses by the Government of North Korea;
(F) Directly or indirectly, engages in money laundering, the counterfeiting of goods or currency, bulk cash smuggling, or narcotics trafficking that supports the Government of North Korea or any senior official or person acting for or on behalf of that Government;
(G) Engages in significant activities undermining cybersecurity through the use of computer networks or systems against foreign persons, governments, or other entities on behalf of the Government of North Korea;
(H) Directly or indirectly, sells, supplies, or transfers to or from the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that Government, a significant amount of precious metal, graphite, raw or semi-finished metals or aluminum, steel, coal, or software, for use by or in industrial processes directly related to weapons of mass destruction and delivery systems for such weapons, other proliferation activities, the Korean Workers' Party, armed forces, internal security or intelligence activities, or the operation and maintenance of political prison camps or forced labor camps, including outside of North Korea;
(I) Directly or indirectly, imports, exports, or reexports to, into, or from North Korea any arms or related materiel or any defense article or defense service (as such terms are defined in section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794));
(J) Directly or indirectly, purchases or otherwise acquires from North Korea any significant amounts of gold, titanium ore, vanadium ore, copper, silver, nickel, zinc, or rare earth minerals;
(K) Directly or indirectly, sells or transfers to North Korea any significant amounts of rocket, aviation, or jet fuel (except for use by a civilian passenger aircraft outside North Korea, exclusively for consumption during its flight to North Korea or its return flight);
(L) Directly or indirectly, provides significant amounts of fuel or supplies, provides bunkering services, or facilitates a significant transaction or transactions to operate or maintain, a vessel or aircraft that is designated under an applicable Executive order or an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as such terms are defined in NKSPEA, as amended), or that is owned or controlled by a person designated under an applicable Executive order or applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as such terms are defined in NKSPEA, as amended);
(M) Directly or indirectly, insures, registers, facilitates the registration of, or maintains insurance or a registration for, a vessel owned or controlled by the Government of North Korea, except as specifically approved by the United Nations Security Council;
(N) Directly or indirectly, maintains a correspondent account as defined in section 201A(d)(1) of NKSPEA, as amended, with any North Korean financial institution, except as specifically approved by the United Nations Security Council; or
(O) Attempts to engage in any of the conduct described in paragraphs (a)(3)(vii)(A) through (N) of this section;
(viii) Section 104(b) of NKSPEA, as amended. Any person the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly:
Section 104(b) of NKSPEA, as amended.
Any person the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly:
(A) Engages in, contributes to, assists, sponsors, or provides financial, material, or technological support for, or goods and services in support of, any person designated pursuant to: An applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended); this section; or any applicable Executive order (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended);
(B) Contributed to:
(1) The bribery of an official of the Government of North Korea or any person acting for on behalf of that official;
1
) The bribery of an official of the Government of North Korea or any person acting for on behalf of that official;
(2) The misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of public funds by, or for the benefit of, an official of the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that official; or
2
) The misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of public funds by, or for the benefit of, an official of the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that official; or
(3) The use of any proceeds of any activity described in paragraph (a)(3)(viii)(B)(1) or (2) of this section;
3
) The use of any proceeds of any activity described in paragraph (a)(3)(viii)(B)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section;
(C) Materially assisted, sponsored, or provided significant financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the activities described in paragraph (a)(3)(viii)(A) or (B) of this section;
(D) Directly or indirectly, purchased or otherwise acquired from the Government of North Korea significant quantities of coal, iron, or iron ore, in excess of the limitations provided in applicable United Nations Security Council resolutions (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended);
(E) Directly or indirectly, purchased or otherwise acquired significant types or amounts of textiles from the Government of North Korea;
(F) Facilitated a significant transfer of funds or property of the Government of North Korea that materially contributes to any violation of an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended);
(G) Directly or indirectly, facilitated a significant transfer to or from the Government of North Korea of bulk cash, precious metals, gemstones, or other stores of value not described under paragraph (a)(3)(vii)(J) of this section;
(H) Directly or indirectly, sold, transferred, or otherwise provided significant amounts of crude oil, condensates, refined petroleum, other types of petroleum or petroleum byproducts, liquefied natural gas, or other natural gas resources to the Government of North Korea (except for heavy fuel oil, gasoline, or diesel fuel for humanitarian use or as excepted under paragraph (a)(3)(vii)(K) of this section);
(I) Directly or indirectly, engaged in, facilitated, or was responsible for the online commercial activities of the Government of North Korea, including online gambling;
(J) Directly or indirectly, purchased or otherwise acquired fishing rights from the Government of North Korea;
(K) Knowingly, directly or indirectly, purchased or otherwise acquired significant types or amounts of food or agricultural products from the Government of North Korea;
(L) Directly or indirectly, engaged in, facilitated, or was responsible for the exportation of workers from North Korea in a manner intended to generate significant revenue, directly or indirectly, for use by the Government of North Korea or by the Workers' Party of Korea;
(M) Conducted a significant transaction or transactions in North Korea's transportation, mining, energy, or financial services industries; or
(N) Facilitated the operation of any branch, subsidiary, or office of a North Korean financial institution, except as specifically approved by the United Nations Security Council, and other than through a correspondent account as described in paragraph (a)(3)(vii)(N) of this section;
(ix) Section 104(g) of NKSPEA, as amended. Any person the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly:
Section 104(g) of NKSPEA, as amended.
Any person the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly:
(A) Directly or indirectly, engages in the importation from or exportation to North Korea of significant quantities of:
(1) Coal, textiles, seafood, iron, or iron ore;
1
) Coal, textiles, seafood, iron, or iron ore;
(2) Refined petroleum products or crude oil above limits set by the United Nations Security Council and with which the United States concurs; or
2
) Refined petroleum products or crude oil above limits set by the United Nations Security Council and with which the United States concurs; or
(3) Services or technology related to goods specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ix)(A)(1) and (2) of this section;
3
) Services or technology related to goods specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ix)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section;
(B) Facilitates a significant transfer of funds or property of the Government of North Korea that materially contributes to any violation of an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended);
(C) Directly or indirectly, engages in, facilitates, or is responsible for the exportation of workers from North Korea, or the employment of such workers, in a manner that generates significant revenue, directly or indirectly, for use by the Government of North Korea or by the Workers' Party of Korea;
(D) Directly or indirectly, sells or transfers a significant number of vessels to North Korea, except as specifically approved by the United Nations Security Council;
(E) Engages in a significant activity to charter, insure, register, facilitate the registration of, or maintain insurance or a registration for, a vessel owned, controlled, commanded, or crewed by a North Korean person; or
(F) Contributes to and participates in:
(1) A significant act of bribery of an official of the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that official;
1
) A significant act of bribery of an official of the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that official;
(2) The misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of a significant amount of public funds by, or for the benefit of, an official of the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that official; or
2
) The misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of a significant amount of public funds by, or for the benefit of, an official of the Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that official; or
(3) The use of any proceeds of any activity described in paragraph (a)(3)(ix)(A) or (B) of this section; or
3
) The use of any proceeds of any activity described in paragraph (a)(3)(ix)(A) or (B) of this section; or
(x) Section 201B of NKSPEA, as amended. Any foreign financial institution that the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly, on or after April 18, 2020, provides significant financial services to any person designated for the imposition of sanctions with respect to North Korea described in paragraphs (a)(3)(vii) through (ix) of this section and under an applicable Executive order (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended) or an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended), and with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury has exercised the authority to block all property and interests in property.
Section 201B of NKSPEA, as amended.
Any foreign financial institution that the Secretary of the Treasury determines, in consultation with the Secretary of State, knowingly, on or after April 18, 2020, provides significant financial services to any person designated for the imposition of sanctions with respect to North Korea described in paragraphs (a)(3)(vii) through (ix) of this section and under an applicable Executive order (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended) or an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended), and with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury has exercised the authority to block all property and interests in property.
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
)(3)(
x
):
See § 510.210(c) for alternative sanctions that can be imposed on a foreign financial institution when the determination specified in paragraph (a)(3)(x) of this section is made.
See
§ 510.210(c) for alternative sanctions that can be imposed on a foreign financial institution when the determination specified in paragraph (a)(3)(x) of this section is made.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
The names of persons listed in or designated or identified pursuant to E.O. 13551, E.O. 13687, E.O. 13722, or E.O. 13810 and whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to those orders and who are referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the following identifiers: for E.O. 13551: “[DPRK];” for E.O. 13687: “[DPRK2];” for E.O. 13722: “[DPRK3];” and for E.O. 13810: “[DPRK4].” The names of persons designated or identified pursuant to NKSPEA, as amended, will be incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[DPRK-NKSPEA].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or blocked pursuant to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with North Korea-related activities, may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. Pursuant to § 510.214, persons owned or controlled by a U.S. financial institution are subject to certain prohibitions under this part; as a result, the entries of persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or blocked pursuant to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with North Korea-related activities, will also include the descriptive prefix text “Transactions Prohibited For Persons Owned or Controlled By U.S. Financial Institutions:”, followed by information about the applicable sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 510.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term Government of North Korea, as defined in § 510.311, are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the Federal Register or incorporated into the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the following identifiers: for E.O. 13551: “[DPRK];” for E.O. 13687: “[DPRK2];” for E.O. 13722: “[DPRK3];” and for E.O. 13810: “[DPRK4].” The names of persons designated or identified pursuant to NKSPEA, as amended, will be incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[DPRK-NKSPEA].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or blocked pursuant to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with North Korea-related activities, may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. Pursuant to § 510.214, persons owned or controlled by a U.S. financial institution are subject to certain prohibitions under this part; as a result, the entries of persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or blocked pursuant to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with North Korea-related activities, will also include the descriptive prefix text “Transactions Prohibited For Persons Owned or Controlled By U.S. Financial Institutions:”, followed by information about the applicable sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 510.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term Government of North Korea, as defined in § 510.311, are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.
Note 5 to paragraph (
a
):
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 6 to this paragraph (a), the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “BPI-DPRK.”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “BPI-DPRK.”
Note 6 to paragraph (
a
):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 7 to paragraph (
a
):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) All funds that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person and that originate from, are destined for, or pass through a foreign bank account that has been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be owned or controlled by a North Korean person, or to have been used to transfer funds in which any North Korean person has an interest, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.
(e) Funds subject to blocking or blocking pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section may be identified via actual or constructive notice from OFAC to relevant U.S. persons believed to be holding or to soon come into possession of such funds. To the extent a foreign bank account determined to meet the criteria contained in paragraph (d) of this section is publicized, it will be published in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.
(f)(1) The prohibitions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part or pursuant to the export control authorities implemented by the U.S. Department of Commerce, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(2) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), and (d) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(3) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(3)(iv) through (v) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date. These prohibitions are in addition to the export control authorities administered by the Department of Commerce.
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 30869, June 28, 2019; 85 FR 20159, Apr. 10, 2020; 89 FR 75957, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 510.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 510.201 is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interests in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 510.201 unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note 1 to paragraph (
d
):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 510.201.

§ 510.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 510.201, shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 510.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 510.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 510.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 510.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 510.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 510.205   Prohibited importation of goods, services, or technology from North Korea.

(a) The importation into the United States, directly or indirectly, of any goods, services, or technology from North Korea is prohibited.
(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

§ 510.206   Prohibited exportation or reexportation of goods, services, or technology to North Korea.

(a) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States, or by a U.S. person, wherever located, of any goods, services, or technology to North Korea is prohibited.
(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part or pursuant to the export control authorities implemented by the U.S. Department of Commerce, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

§ 510.207   Prohibited vessel transactions related to North Korean registration and flagging.

(a) U.S. persons may not register a vessel in North Korea, obtain authorization for a vessel to fly the North Korean flag, or own, lease, operate, or insure any vessel flagged by North Korea.
(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

§ 510.208   Prohibited aircraft landing or vessel calling in the United States.

(a) No aircraft in which a foreign person has an interest that has landed at a place in North Korea may land at a place in the United States within 180 days after departure from North Korea.
(b) No vessel in which a foreign person has an interest that has called at a port in North Korea within the previous 180 days, and no vessel in which a foreign person has an interest that has engaged in a ship-to-ship transfer with such a vessel within the previous 180 days, may call at a port in the United States.
(c) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

§ 510.209   Prohibited new investment in North Korea.

(a) New investment, as defined in § 510.318, in North Korea by a U.S. person, wherever located, is prohibited.
(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part or pursuant to the export control authorities implemented by the U.S. Department of Commerce, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

§ 510.210   Prohibitions or strict conditions with respect to correspondent or payable-through accounts or blocking of certain foreign financial institutions identified by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(a) Prohibited activities. A U.S. financial institution shall not:
Prohibited activities.
A U.S. financial institution shall not:
(1) Open or maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening or maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to this section; or
(2) Maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to this section.
(b) Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions prohibited by Executive Order 13810. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution has, on or after September 21, 2017, knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant transaction:
Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions prohibited by Executive Order 13810.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution has, on or after September 21, 2017, knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant transaction:
(1) On behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13551, Executive Order 13687, Executive Order 13722, or Executive Order 13810, or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13382 in connection with North Korea-related activities; or
(2) In connection with trade with North Korea.
(c) Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions prohibited by NKSPEA, as amended. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution has, on or after April 18, 2020, knowingly provided significant financial services to any person designated for the imposition of sanctions with respect to North Korea described in § 510.201(a)(3)(vii) through (ix) and under an applicable Executive order (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended) or an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended).
Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions prohibited by NKSPEA, as amended.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution has, on or after April 18, 2020, knowingly provided significant financial services to any person designated for the imposition of sanctions with respect to North Korea described in § 510.201(a)(3)(vii) through (ix) and under an applicable Executive order (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended) or an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended).
(d) Imposition of sanctions on foreign financial institutions. Upon determining that a foreign financial institution has engaged in sanctionable activity described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may:
Imposition of sanctions on foreign financial institutions.
Upon determining that a foreign financial institution has engaged in sanctionable activity described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may:
(1) Prohibit the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution; or
(2) Impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution. Such conditions may include the following:
(i) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(ii) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(iii) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(iv) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(v) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.
(e) Applicability of prohibitions. The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
Applicability of prohibitions.
The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
Note 1 to § 510.210:
For information regarding persons blocked pursuant to this part, or another part of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with North Korea-related activities, including identifier information for entries on the SDN List, see Note 4 to § 510.201(a).
see
Note 4 to § 510.201(a).
Note 2 to § 510.210:
The names of foreign financial institutions for which the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited or for which the maintenance of a correspondent account or payable-through account is subject to one or more strict conditions pursuant to this section will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on OFAC's website (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register along with the applicable prohibition or strict condition(s).
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
along with the applicable prohibition or strict condition(s).
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 30870, June 28, 2019; 85 FR 20161, Apr. 10, 2020]]

§ 510.211   Prohibited facilitation.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, U.S. persons, wherever located, are prohibited from approving, financing, facilitating, or guaranteeing a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by § 510.201(d), § 510.206, or § 510.209 if performed by a U.S. person or within the United States.
(b)(1) The prohibitions in this section with respect to § 510.201(d) apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(2) The prohibitions in this section with respect to §§ 510.206 and 510.209 apply except to the extent provided in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part or pursuant to the export control authorities implemented by the U.S. Department of Commerce, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

§ 510.212   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 510.213   Exempt transactions.

(a) United Nations Participation Act. The exemptions described in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions described in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on both OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (see https://www.un.org) as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, such persons.
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (see
https://www.un.org)
as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, such persons.
(b) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(c) Information or informational materials. (1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 510.312, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 510.312, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) are prohibited.
(d) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Note 2 to paragraph (
d
):
As of September 1, 2017, the U.S. Department of State has restricted the use of U.S. passports to travel into, in, or through North Korea. See 22 CFR 51.63. U.S. nationals who wish to travel to or within North Korea for the extremely limited purposes that are set forth in federal regulations must apply for a passport with a special validation from the Department of State. See travel.state.gov for additional details.
travel.state.gov
for additional details.
(e) Official business. The prohibitions contained in §§ 510.201(a)(1), 510.201(a)(3)(iv) through (vi) and (d), 510.206, and 510.208 through 510.211 do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, Programmes, Funds, and Related Organizations by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in §§ 510.201(a)(1), 510.201(a)(3)(iv) through (vi) and (d), 510.206, and 510.208 through 510.211 do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies, Programmes, Funds, and Related Organizations by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
(f) Exemptions under the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, as amended by the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020. The prohibitions contained in §§ 510.201(a)(3)(vii) through (x), 510.210(c), and 510.214 do not apply to the following activities:
Exemptions under the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, as amended by the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
The prohibitions contained in §§ 510.201(a)(3)(vii) through (x), 510.210(c), and 510.214 do not apply to the following activities:
(1) Activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.), or to any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
et seq.
), or to any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
(2) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, or under the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or under other international agreements.
(3) Any activities incidental to the POW/MIA accounting mission in North Korea, including activities by the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency and other governmental or nongovernmental organizations tasked with identifying or recovering the remains of members of the United States Armed Forces in North Korea.
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 20161, Apr. 10, 2020; 87 FR 78471, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 510.214   Prohibitions on persons owned or controlled by U.S. financial institutions.

Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, any person that is owned or controlled by a U.S. financial institution and established or maintained outside the United States is prohibited from knowingly engaging in any transaction directly or indirectly with the Government of North Korea or any person designated for the imposition of sanctions with respect to North Korea described in § 510.201(a)(3)(vii) through (ix) and under an applicable Executive order (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended) or an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined in NKSPEA, as amended).
Note 1 to § 510.214:
For information regarding persons blocked pursuant to this part, or another part of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with North Korea-related activities, including identifier information for entries on the SDN List, see Note 4 to § 510.201(a).
see
Note 4 to § 510.201(a).
Note 2 to § 510.214:
A U.S. financial institution is subject to the civil penalties provided for in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) if any entity that it owns or controls violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of the prohibitions set forth in this section. See § 510.701.
et seq.
) if any entity that it owns or controls violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of the prohibitions set forth in this section.
See
§ 510.701.
[[85 FR 20161, Apr. 10, 2020]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 510.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 510.301   Arms or related materiel.

The term arms or related materiel means arms or related materiel of all types, including any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, or related materiel including spare parts.
arms or related materiel
means arms or related materiel of all types, including any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, or related materiel including spare parts.
Note 1 to § 510.301:
For additional guidance as to items that constitute arms or related materiel, please see determinations by the United Nations Security Council or its committee created pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1718, as well as designations by the Secretary of State of defense articles and defense services pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act and listed on the United States Munitions List (USML). In addition, items on the Commerce Control List as well as certain uncontrolled items that are subject to the Export Administration Act may be considered related materiel.
arms or related materiel,
please see determinations by the United Nations Security Council or its committee created pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1718, as well as designations by the Secretary of State of defense articles and defense services pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act and listed on the United States Munitions List (USML). In addition, items on the Commerce Control List as well as certain uncontrolled items that are subject to the Export Administration Act may be considered
related materiel.

§ 510.302   Blocked account; blocked property.

For the purposes of this part, the terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean:
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean:
(a) Any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 510.201(a) held in the name of the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action; and
(b) Any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 510.201(d), and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 510.302:
See § 510.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a).
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 20161, Apr. 10, 2020]]

§ 510.303   Correspondent account.

The term correspondent account means an account established by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution.
correspondent account
means an account established by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution.

§ 510.304   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to transfers or other dealings in blocked property and interests in property of the Government of North Korea, as defined in § 510.311, or the Workers' Party of Korea prohibited by § 510.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, March 16, 2016;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a)(3)(i), 12:01 p.m. eastern daylight time, August 30, 2010;
(3) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked;
(4) With respect to funds subject to blocking pursuant to § 510.201(d), the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that funds are blocked or that a foreign bank account that the funds originate from, are destined for, or pass through has been determined to meet the criteria contained in § 510.201(d);
(5) With respect to the prohibition set forth in § 510.207, June 26, 2008;
(6) With respect to the prohibition set forth in § 510.205, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, April 19, 2011;
(7) With respect to the prohibitions set forth in §§ 510.206 and 510.209, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, March 16, 2016;
(8) With respect to the prohibitions set forth in § 510.208, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, September 21, 2017;
(9) With respect to the prohibition set forth in § 510.210(b), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, September 21, 2017. The effective date of a prohibition or strict condition imposed pursuant to § 510.210(b) on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition; and
(10) With respect to the prohibition set forth in § 510.210(c), April 18, 2020. The effective date of a prohibition or strict condition imposed pursuant to § 510.210(c) on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property, or a notice of the imposition of a prohibition or strict condition pursuant to § 510.210, is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property, or a notice of the imposition of a prohibition or strict condition pursuant to § 510.210, is published in the
Federal Register
.
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 20162, Apr. 10, 2020]]

§ 510.305   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 510.306   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in § 510.201(a), means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in § 510.201(a), means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 20162, Apr. 10, 2020]]

§ 510.307   Financial services.

The term financial services includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.
financial services
includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.

§ 510.308   Financial transaction.

The term financial transaction means any transfer of value involving a financial institution.
financial transaction
means any transfer of value involving a financial institution.

§ 510.309   Foreign financial institution.

The term foreign financial institution means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by OFAC.
foreign financial institution
means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by OFAC.

§ 510.310   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any person that is not a U.S. person.
foreign person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.

§ 510.311   Government of North Korea.

The term Government of North Korea includes:
Government of North Korea
includes:
(a) The state and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof;
(b) Any entity owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the foregoing, including any corporation, partnership, association, or other entity in which the Government of North Korea owns a 50 percent or greater interest or a controlling interest, and any entity which is otherwise controlled by that government;
(c) Any person that is, or has been, acting or purporting to act, directly or indirectly, for or on behalf of any of the foregoing; and
(d) Any other person determined by OFAC to be included within paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
Note 1 to § 510.311:
The names of persons that OFAC has determined fall within this definition are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[DPRK].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. However, the property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term Government of North Korea are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the Federal Register or incorporated into the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[DPRK].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
However, the property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term Government of North Korea are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.
Note 2 to § 510.311:
Section 501.807 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of OFAC's determination that they fall within the definition of the term Government of North Korea.

§ 510.312   Information or informational materials.

(a)(1) The term information or informational materials includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(2) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 510.313   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 510.314   Knowingly.

The term knowingly, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

§ 510.315   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 510.315:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 510.316   Loans or other extensions of credit.

The term loans or other extensions of credit means any transfer or extension of funds or credit on the basis of an obligation to repay, or any assumption or guarantee of the obligation of another to repay an extension of funds or credit, including: Overdrafts; currency swaps; purchases of securities or debt securities, including securities from or issued by the Government of North Korea; purchases of a loan made by another person; sales of financial assets subject to an agreement to repurchase; renewals or refinancings whereby funds or credits are transferred or extended to a prohibited borrower or prohibited recipient; the issuance of standby letters of credit; and drawdowns on existing lines of credit.
loans or other extensions of credit
means any transfer or extension of funds or credit on the basis of an obligation to repay, or any assumption or guarantee of the obligation of another to repay an extension of funds or credit, including: Overdrafts; currency swaps; purchases of securities or debt securities, including securities from or issued by the Government of North Korea; purchases of a loan made by another person; sales of financial assets subject to an agreement to repurchase; renewals or refinancings whereby funds or credits are transferred or extended to a prohibited borrower or prohibited recipient; the issuance of standby letters of credit; and drawdowns on existing lines of credit.

§ 510.317   Luxury goods.

The term luxury goods, as used in § 510.201(a) includes those items listed in 15 CFR 746.4(b)(1) and supplement no. 1 to part 746, similar items, and items so designated under an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined by the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, as amended by the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020), except as specifically approved by the United Nations Security Council for import, export, or reexport to or into North Korea.
luxury goods,
as used in § 510.201(a) includes those items listed in 15 CFR 746.4(b)(1) and supplement no. 1 to part 746, similar items, and items so designated under an applicable United Nations Security Council resolution (as defined by the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, as amended by the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act and the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020), except as specifically approved by the United Nations Security Council for import, export, or reexport to or into North Korea.
[[85 FR 20162, Apr. 10, 2020]]

§ 510.318   New investment.

The term new investment means a transaction after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight March 16, 2016 that constitutes:
new investment
means a transaction after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight March 16, 2016 that constitutes:
(a) A commitment or contribution of funds or other assets; or
(b) A loan or other extension of credit as defined in § 510.316.

§ 510.319   North Korean person.

(a) The term North Korean person means any North Korean citizen, North Korean permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of North Korea or any jurisdiction within North Korea (including foreign branches).
North Korean person
means any North Korean citizen, North Korean permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of North Korea or any jurisdiction within North Korea (including foreign branches).
(b) For the purposes of § 510.201(a), the term North Korean person shall not include any United States citizen, any permanent resident alien of the United States, any alien lawfully admitted to the United States, or any alien holding a valid United States visa.
North Korean person
shall not include any United States citizen, any permanent resident alien of the United States, any alien lawfully admitted to the United States, or any alien holding a valid United States visa.
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 20162, Apr. 10, 2020]]

§ 510.320   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 510.321   Payable-through account.

The term payable-through account means a correspondent account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
payable-through account
means a correspondent account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.

§ 510.322   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 510.323   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 510.324   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 510.325   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 510.326   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 510.327   U.S. depository institution.

The term U.S. depository institution means any entity (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, or any agency, office, or branch located in the United States of a foreign entity, that is engaged primarily in the business of banking (for example, banks, savings banks, savings associations, credit unions, trust companies, and United States bank holding companies) and is subject to regulation by federal or state banking authorities.
U.S. depository institution
means any entity (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, or any agency, office, or branch located in the United States of a foreign entity, that is engaged primarily in the business of banking (for example, banks, savings banks, savings associations, credit unions, trust companies, and United States bank holding companies) and is subject to regulation by federal or state banking authorities.

§ 510.328   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 510.329   U.S.-registered money transmitter.

The term U.S.-registered money transmitter means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including its foreign branches, or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that is a money transmitter, as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(ff)(5), and that is registered pursuant to 31 CFR 1022.380.
U.S.-registered money transmitter
means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including its foreign branches, or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that is a money transmitter, as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(ff)(5), and that is registered pursuant to 31 CFR 1022.380.

§ 510.330   U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities.

The term U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches), or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that:
U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities
means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches), or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that:
(a) Is a “broker” or “dealer” in securities within the meanings set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(b) Holds or clears customer accounts; and
(c) Is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 510.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 510.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 510.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 510.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a);
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property; or
(3) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, with a foreign financial institution that is subject to sanctions pursuant to § 510.210 when the transaction is one that is prohibited by § 510.210.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a).

§ 510.405   Exportation and reexportation of goods, services, or technology.

(a) The prohibition on the exportation and reexportation of goods, services, or technology contained in § 510.206 applies to services performed on behalf of a person in North Korea or the Government of North Korea or where the benefit of such services is otherwise received in North Korea, if such services are performed:
(1) In the United States; or
(2) Outside the United States by a U.S. person, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States.
(b) The benefit of services performed anywhere in the world on behalf of the Government of North Korea is presumed to be received in North Korea.
(c) The prohibitions contained in § 510.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests of the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a).
(d)(1) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person in North Korea or to the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a).
(2) For example, a U.S. person is engaged in a prohibited exportation of services to North Korea when it extends credit to a third-country firm specifically to enable that firm to manufacture goods for sale to North Korea or the Government of North Korea.
Note 1 to § 510.405:
See §§ 510.507 and 510.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 510.507 and 510.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 510.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 510.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property (including a blocked account) apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) or any property blocked by § 510.201(d).

§ 510.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 510.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 510.407:
See also § 510.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 510.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 510.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a). For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
Note 1 to § 510.408:
Separate authorization by the Department of Commerce under the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), 15 CFR part 730 through 774, may be required if the charitable contributions are subject to the EAR.

§ 510.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 510.201 on dealing in property subject to that section and the prohibition in § 510.206 on exporting services to North Korea prohibit U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a).

§ 510.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 510.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 510.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

(a) Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
(b) This section, which deals with the consequences of ownership of entities, in no way limits the definition of the Government of North Korea in § 510.311, which includes within its definition other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked but who are not on the SDN List.

§ 510.412   Facilitation; change of policies and procedures; referral of business opportunities offshore.

With respect to § 510.211, a prohibited facilitation or approval of a transaction by a foreign person occurs, among other instances, when a U.S. person:
(a) Alters its operating policies or procedures, or those of a foreign affiliate, to permit a foreign affiliate to accept or perform a specific contract, engagement, or transaction involving North Korea or the Government of North Korea without the approval of the U.S. person, where such transaction previously required approval by the U.S. person and such transaction by the foreign affiliate would be prohibited by this part if performed directly by a U.S. person or from the United States;
(b) Refers to a foreign person purchase orders, requests for bids, or similar business opportunities involving North Korea or the Government of North Korea to which the United States person could not directly respond as a result of the prohibitions contained in this part; or
(c) Changes the operating policies and procedures of a particular affiliate with the specific purpose of facilitating transactions that would be prohibited by this part if performed by a U.S. person or from the United States.

§ 510.413   Significant activity or activities; significant transaction(s); significant financial service(s).

In determining, for purposes of §§ 510.201(a) and 510.210, whether an activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) are significant, the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Department of the Treasury may consider some or all of the following factors:
(a) Size, number, and frequency. The size, number, and frequency of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) conducted or performed over a period of time, including whether the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) conducted or performed over a period of time, including whether the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b) Nature. The nature of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s).
Nature.
The nature of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s).
(c) Level of awareness; pattern of conduct. (1) Whether the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) are performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
Level of awareness; pattern of conduct.
(1) Whether the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) are performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
(2) Whether the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) are part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d) Nexus. The proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) and North Korea or a person blocked pursuant to § 510.201, a person sanctioned pursuant to § 510.210, or trade with North Korea.
Nexus.
The proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) and North Korea or a person blocked pursuant to § 510.201, a person sanctioned pursuant to § 510.210, or trade with North Korea.
(e) Impact. The impact of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) on the relevant U.S. sanctions program objectives including:
Impact.
The impact of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) on the relevant U.S. sanctions program objectives including:
(1) The economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on North Korea or a person blocked pursuant to § 510.201, or sanctioned pursuant to § 510.210; and
(2) Whether and how the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) contribute(s) to North Korea's nuclear and ballistic missile programs, commission of serious human rights abuses, use of funds generated through international trade to support its nuclear and missile programs and weapons proliferation, money laundering and other illicit activities, procurement of luxury goods, human rights violations, and violations of United Nations Security Council Resolutions.
(f) Deceptive practices. Whether the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) involve(s) an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) or to evade sanctions.
Deceptive practices.
Whether the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) involve(s) an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s) or to evade sanctions.
(g) Other relevant factors. Such other factors that the Department of the Treasury deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of an activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s).
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Department of the Treasury deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of an activity or activities, transaction(s), or financial service(s).
[[85 FR 20162, Apr. 10, 2020]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 510.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the North Korea sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 510.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 510.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 510.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution, or any payment of funds or transfer of credit, subject to § 510.201(d) must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 510.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 510.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 510.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 510.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 510.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 510.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 510.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to the Government of North Korea or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a).
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to the Government of North Korea or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a).

§ 510.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 of June 26, 2008, or any person in North Korea, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in North Korea, is authorized, provided that receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized: Pursuant to § 510.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons or North Korea; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 of June 26, 2008, or any person in North Korea, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in North Korea, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Consistent with § 510.404, U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 510.201, or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 of June 26, 2008, is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 510.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings, which is available on OFAC's website at: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's website at:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 510.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 510.507(a) to or on behalf of the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 of June 26, 2008, or any person in North Korea, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in North Korea, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds received by U.S. persons as payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 510.507(a) do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 510.507(a) to or on behalf of the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 of June 26, 2008, or any person in North Korea, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in North Korea, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds received by U.S. persons as payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 510.507(a) do not originate from:
(1) A source within the United States;
(2) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(3) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 510.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 103642, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 510.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 of June 26, 2008 are authorized.

§ 510.510   North Korean mission to the United Nations and employees of the United Nations.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the provision of goods or services in the United States to the official mission of the Government of North Korea to the United Nations (the mission) and payment for such goods or services are authorized, provided that:
(1) The goods or services are for the conduct of the official business of the mission, or for personal use of the employees of the mission, their families, or persons forming part of their household, and are not for resale;
(2) The transaction does not involve the purchase, sale, financing, or refinancing of real property;
(3) The transaction does not involve the purchase, sale, financing, or refinancing of luxury goods;
(4) The transaction is not otherwise prohibited by law; and
(5) Funds transfers to or from the mission or the employees of the mission, their families, or persons forming part of their household are conducted through an account at a U.S. financial institution specifically licensed by OFAC.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the provision of goods or services in the United States to the employees of the mission or of the United Nations, their families, or persons forming part of their household, and payment for such goods or services, are authorized, provided that:
(1) The goods or services are for personal use of the employees of the mission or of the United Nations, their families, or persons forming part of their household, and are not for resale;
(2) The transaction does not involve the purchase, sale, financing, or refinancing of luxury goods;
(3) The transaction is not otherwise prohibited by law; and
(4) Funds transfers to or from employees of the mission, their families, or persons forming part of their household are conducted through an account at a U.S. financial institution specifically licensed by OFAC.
(c) This section does not authorize U.S. financial institutions to open and operate accounts for, or extend credit to, the mission of the Government of North Korea or to the employees of the mission, their families, or persons forming part of their household. U.S. financial institutions are required to obtain specific licenses to operate accounts for, or extend credit to, the mission or to the employees of the mission, their families, or persons forming part of their household.
Note 1 to § 510.510:
Nothing in this section authorizes the transfer of any property to the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a) other than the mission, nor does this section authorize any debit to a blocked account.

§ 510.511   Noncommercial, personal remittances.

(a)(1) U.S. persons are authorized to send and receive and U.S. depository institutions, U.S.-registered brokers or dealers in securities, and U.S.-registered money transmitters are authorized to process transfers of funds to or from North Korea or for or on behalf of an individual ordinarily resident in North Korea, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), in cases in which the transfers involve noncommercial, personal remittances, up to a maximum of $5,000 per year.
(2) Noncommercial, personal remittances do not include charitable donations of funds to or for the benefit of an entity or funds transfers for use in supporting or operating a business, including a family-owned business.
(b) The transferring institutions identified in paragraph (a) of this section may rely on the originator of a funds transfer with regard to compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, provided that the transferring institution does not know or have reason to know that the funds transfer is not in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) An individual who is a U.S. person is authorized to carry funds as a noncommercial, personal remittance, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, to an individual in North Korea or ordinarily resident in North Korea, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201(a), provided that the individual who is a U.S. person is carrying the funds on his or her behalf, not on behalf of another person.

§ 510.512   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, and subject to the reporting requirements set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, all transactions, including the payment of reasonable and customary taxes, fees, and import duties to, and purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services from, the Government of North Korea that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization (NGO) are authorized, provided that the NGO is not a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
).
The authorization in paragraph (a) of this section includes the exportation or reexportation of items (commodities, software, or technology) not subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) (EAR) that are ordinarily incident and necessary to activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, except for items described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Pursuant to 15 CFR 746.4(a), a license from the Department of Commerce is required to export or reexport any item subject to the EAR to North Korea, except food and medicine designated as EAR99, unless a license exception applies.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education at or below a secondary school level, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education at the primary or secondary school level, and assisting education reform projects, provided that such education excludes the subjects of math, sciences, technology, engineering, and computer programming;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) U.S. depository institutions, U.S.-registered brokers or dealers in securities, and U.S.-registered money transmitters are authorized to process transfers of funds on behalf of U.S. or third-country NGOs, including transfers of funds to or from North Korea, in support of the activities authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) This section does not authorize the following transactions:
(1) The exportation or reexportation of services to, charitable donations to or for the benefit of, or any other transactions involving the Government of North Korea, the Workers' Party of Korea, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201, except as ordinarily incident and necessary to an activity authorized in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Partnerships or partnership agreements with any military, intelligence, or law enforcement entity owned or controlled by the Government of North Korea, except as necessary to export or import items to or from North Korea that are licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part or pursuant to the EAR; or
(3) Exportation or reexportation of any item that would not be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States, unless exempt or authorized.
(e) NGOs relying on the authorization in paragraph (a) of this section must submit a report to the U.S. Department of State via email at DPRK-NGO-GL-Notification-DL@state.gov no fewer than 30 days before commencement of the authorized activity with the following:
DPRK-NGO-GL-Notification-DL@state.gov
no fewer than 30 days before commencement of the authorized activity with the following:
(1) UN Security Council 1718 Committee (“1718 Committee”) report. (i) If the NGO has received 1718 Committee approval with respect to its activities to be conducted pursuant to this section, a copy of such approval along with the exemption request submitted to the 1718 Committee; or
UN Security Council 1718 Committee (“1718 Committee”) report.
(i) If the NGO has received 1718 Committee approval with respect to its activities to be conducted pursuant to this section, a copy of such approval along with the exemption request submitted to the 1718 Committee; or
(ii) If the NGO has not received 1718 Committee approval with respect to its activities to be conducted pursuant to this section, either:
(A) A copy of any 1718 Committee exemption request or notification that has been or will be submitted to the 1718 Committee with respect to the NGO's activities; or
(B) A detailed explanation of why the NGO's proposed activities do not require such an exemption or notification, including:
(1) Items the NGO plans to transport to North Korea related to activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, including items for personal use by persons regularly employed by the NGO;
1
) Items the NGO plans to transport to North Korea related to activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, including items for personal use by persons regularly employed by the NGO;
(2) Estimated or actual dollar value of the transaction(s), as determined by the value of goods, services, or contracts;
2
) Estimated or actual dollar value of the transaction(s), as determined by the value of goods, services, or contracts;
(3) The parties involved, including any persons owned, controlled, or acting on behalf of the Government of North Korea or the Workers Party of Korea, as well as financial institutions that may be involved in processing such transactions;
3
) The parties involved, including any persons owned, controlled, or acting on behalf of the Government of North Korea or the Workers Party of Korea, as well as financial institutions that may be involved in processing such transactions;
(4) The type and scope of activities conducted; and
4
) The type and scope of activities conducted; and
(5) The dates or duration of the activities.
5
) The dates or duration of the activities.
(2) U.S. Department of State confirmation. The U.S. Department of State may notify an NGO within the 2-week period following submission of the report described in this paragraph (e) to inform the NGO that it may not rely upon this section.
U.S. Department of State confirmation.
The U.S. Department of State may notify an NGO within the 2-week period following submission of the report described in this paragraph (e) to inform the NGO that it may not rely upon this section.
(f) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize NGOs or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects to directly benefit the civilian population of North Korea.
Note 2 to § 510.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[89 FR 12234, Feb. 16, 2024]]

§ 510.513   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
Note 1 to § 510.513.
Section 510.213(e) exempts transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof to the extent such transactions are subject to the prohibitions contained in §§ 510.201(a)(1), (a)(3)(iv) through (vi), and (d), 510.206, and 510.208 through 510.211.
[[87 FR 78471, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 510.514   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
Note 1 to § 510.514.
Section 510.213(e) exempts transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United Nations by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof to the extent such transactions are subject to the prohibitions contained in §§ 510.201(a)(1), (a)(3)(iv) through (vi), and (d), 510.206, and 510.208 through 510.211.
Note 2 to § 510.514.
Separate authorization from the Department of Commerce may be required for the export or reexport of items related to such transactions, if the items are subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.
[[87 FR 78471, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 510.515   Third-country diplomatic and consular funds transfers.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, U.S. depository institutions, U.S.-registered brokers or dealers in securities, and U.S.-registered money transmitters are authorized to process funds transfers necessary for the operating expenses or other official business of third-country diplomatic or consular missions in North Korea.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers involving accounts blocked pursuant to § 510.201(d).

§ 510.516   Transactions related to telecommunications and mail.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, all transactions necessary for the receipt and transmission of telecommunications involving North Korea are authorized.
(2) This section does not authorize:
(i) The provision, sale, or lease of telecommunications equipment or technology; or
(ii) The provision, sale, or lease of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity).
(b) All transactions of common carriers incident to the receipt or transmission of mail and packages between the United States and North Korea are authorized provided that the importation or exportation of such mail and packages is exempt from or authorized pursuant to this part.

§ 510.517   Certain transactions related to patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual property.

(a) All of the following transactions in connection with a patent, trademark, copyright, or other form of intellectual property protection in the United States or North Korea are authorized, including exportation of services to North Korea, payment for such services, and payment to persons in North Korea directly connected to such intellectual property protection:
(1) The filing and prosecution of any application to obtain a patent, trademark, copyright, or other form of intellectual property protection;
(2) The receipt of a patent, trademark, copyright, or other form of intellectual property protection;
(3) The renewal or maintenance of a patent, trademark, copyright, or other form of intellectual property protection; and
(4) The filing and prosecution of any opposition or infringement proceeding with respect to a patent, trademark, copyright, or other form of intellectual property protection, or the entrance of a defense to any such proceeding.
(b) This section authorizes the payment of fees to the U.S. Government or the Government of North Korea, and of the reasonable and customary fees and charges to attorneys or representatives within the United States or North Korea, in connection with the transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section, except that payment effected pursuant to the terms of this paragraph (b) may not be made from a blocked account.

§ 510.518   Calling of certain vessels and landing of certain aircraft.

(a) Vessels and aircraft in which a foreign person has an interest that have called or landed at a port or place in North Korea within the previous 180 days, and vessels in which a foreign person has an interest that have engaged in a ship-to-ship transfer with such a vessel within the previous 180 days, are authorized to call or land at a port or place in the United States in the following circumstances only:
(1) The vessel is in distress and seeks refuge in the United States;
(2) The vessel's call at a port in North Korea was due solely to its distress and the resulting need to seek refuge;
(3) The aircraft is engaging in a nontraffic stop or an emergency landing in the United States; or
(4) The aircraft's landing in North Korea was due solely to an emergency landing.
(b) For purposes of this section, a nontraffic stop includes a stop for any purpose other than taking on or discharging cargo, passengers, or mail.
nontraffic stop
includes a stop for any purpose other than taking on or discharging cargo, passengers, or mail.

§ 510.519   Transactions related to closing a correspondent or payable-through account.

(a) During the 10-day period beginning on the effective date of the prohibition in § 510.210 on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution listed on the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:
(1) Process only those transactions through the account, or permit the foreign financial institution to execute only those transactions through the account, that are for the purpose of, and necessary for, closing the account; and
(2) Transfer the funds remaining in the correspondent account or the payable-through account to an account of the foreign financial institution located outside of the United States and close the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
(b) A report must be filed with OFAC within 30 days of the closure of an account, providing full details on the closing of each correspondent account or payable-through account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List. Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. The reports, which must reference this section, are to be submitted to OFAC using one of the following methods:
(1) Email (preferred method): OFACReport@treasury.gov; or
Email (preferred method): OFACReport@treasury.gov;
or
(2) U.S. mail: Attention: Compliance Division, 

 Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220.
U.S. mail:
Attention: Compliance Division, 

 Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions outside the scope or time period authorized in paragraph (a) of this section by a U.S. financial institution with respect to a correspondent account or a payable-through account maintained by the U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List. License applications should be filed in conformance with § 501.801 of the Reporting, Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List.
Note 1 to § 510.519:
This section does not authorize a U.S. financial institution to unblock property or interests in property, or to engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property, blocked pursuant to any other part of this chapter in the process of closing a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name has been added to the CAPTA List. See § 510.101.
See
§ 510.101.
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 30870, June 28, 2019; 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 510.520   Transactions ordinarily incident to the exportation or reexportation to North Korea of items licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce, and related services.

All transactions ordinarily incident to the exportation or reexportation of items (commodities, software, or technology) to North Korea, including transactions with the Government of North Korea or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 510.201, and services provided outside North Korea to install, repair, or replace such items, are authorized, provided that the exportation or reexportation of such items to North Korea is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce.
[[89 FR 12234, Feb. 16, 2024]]

§ 510.521   Exportation or reexportation to North Korea of certain agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, and replacement parts and components.

(a) All transactions prohibited by § 510.206 that are related to the exportation or reexportation to North Korea of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, or replacement parts or components for medical devices, in each case that are not subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) (EAR), are authorized, provided that the agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, or replacement parts or components:
(1) Would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States;
(2) Are not luxury goods as set forth in 15 CFR 746.4(b)(1), including identified as examples of luxury goods in 17 CFR part 746, supplement no. 1;
(3) Are approved for exportation or reexportation to North Korea by the Security Council Committee established pursuant to United Nations Security Council resolution 1718 (2006), to the extent such approval is required;
(4) Are not exported or reexported to any military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchaser or importer; and
(5) Replacement parts are limited to a one-for-one export or reexport basis (i.e., only one replacement part can be exported or reexported to replace a broken or non-operational part).
i.e.,
only one replacement part can be exported or reexported to replace a broken or non-operational part).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
).
Separate authorization from OFAC is required for export or reexport by a U.S. person to North Korea of items that are not subject to the EAR, other than agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, or replacement parts or components for medical devices as described in this paragraph. See § 510.512 for a general license authorizing certain transactions by nongovernmental organizations, including exports and reexports of certain items that are not subject to the EAR.
See
§ 510.512 for a general license authorizing certain transactions by nongovernmental organizations, including exports and reexports of certain items that are not subject to the EAR.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. The term agricultural commodities means products:
Agricultural commodities.
The term
agricultural commodities
means products:
(i) That fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers for the purposes of food production; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. The term medicine means an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
The term
medicine
means an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical device. The term medical device means an item that:
Medical device.
The term
medical device
means an item that:
(i) Falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321); and
(ii) Is not on the List of Medical Devices Requiring Specific Authorization, which is maintained on OFAC's website (www.treasury.gov/ofac) on the North Korea Sanctions page.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
) on the North Korea Sanctions page.
Note 2 to § 510.521.
Pursuant to 17 CFR 746.4(a), a license from the Department of Commerce is required to export or reexport any item subject to the EAR to North Korea, except food and medicine designated as EAR99, unless a license exception applies.
[[89 FR 12235, Feb. 16, 2024]]

§ 510.522   Journalistic activities and establishment of news bureaus in North Korea.

(a) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, news reporting organizations that are United States persons, and individuals who are United States persons regularly employed by news reporting organizations either as journalists (including photojournalists) or as supporting broadcast or technical personnel, are authorized to engage in the following transactions in North Korea, provided that such transactions are ordinarily incident and necessary to their journalistic activities or the establishment or operation of a news bureau in North Korea:
(1) Hiring and compensating support staff in North Korea (e.g., stringers, translators, interpreters, camera operators, technical experts, freelance producers, or drivers), persons to handle logistics, or other office personnel as needed;
(2) Leasing or renting office space;
(3) Purchasing, leasing, or renting North Korean-origin goods and services (e.g., mobile phones and related airtime), selling such goods when no longer needed to persons other than the Government of North Korea or Worker's Party of Korea, or importing them into the United States;
(4) Renting and using telecommunications facilities in North Korea and paying fees or taxes related to the dissemination of information and transmission of news feeds (e.g., fees for satellite uplink facilities, or live news feeds);
(5) Exporting and reexporting to North Korea, and subsequently reexporting from North Korea, equipment that is not subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) (EAR), and that is ordinarily incident and necessary to journalistic activities, provided that:
(i) Such equipment would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States;
(ii) The exportation or reexportation is approved by the Security Council Committee established pursuant to United Nations Security Council resolution 1718 (2006), to the extent such approval is required; and
(iii) Such equipment remains under the effective control and in the physical possession of the news reporting organization or journalist exporting such equipment while it is in North Korea and is reexported from North Korea to the United States or a third country when no longer needed for journalistic activities in North Korea; and
(6) Paying for all expenses ordinarily incident and necessary to journalistic activities, including sales or employment taxes to the Government of North Korea.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
).
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations. Pursuant to 15 CFR 746.4(a), a license from the Department of Commerce is required to export or reexport any item (commodities, software, or technology) subject to the EAR to North Korea, except food and medicine designated as EAR99, unless a license exception applies.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
).
See § 510.520 for a general license authorizing transactions ordinarily incident to the exportation or reexportation to North Korea of items that are licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce.
See
§ 510.520 for a general license authorizing transactions ordinarily incident to the exportation or reexportation to North Korea of items that are licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce.
(b) For the purposes of this section, the term “news reporting organization” means an entity whose primary purpose is the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public.
Note 3 to § 510.522.
As of September 1, 2017, the U.S. Department of State has restricted the use of U.S. passports to travel into, in, or through North Korea. See 22 CFR 51.63. U.S. nationals who wish to travel to or within North Korea for the extremely limited purposes that are set forth in Federal regulations must apply for a passport with a special validation from the Department of State. See travel.state.gov for additional details.
See
22 CFR 51.63. U.S. nationals who wish to travel to or within North Korea for the extremely limited purposes that are set forth in Federal regulations must apply for a passport with a special validation from the Department of State.
See travel.state.gov
for additional details.
[[89 FR 12235, Feb. 16, 2024]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 510.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Finding of Violation


§ 510.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to the authority granted in that section, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $10,000 and, if a natural person, may also be imprisoned for not more than 10 years; and the officer, director, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation or evasion shall be punished by a like fine, imprisonment, or both and any property, funds, securities, papers, or other articles or documents, or any vessel, together with her tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, or vehicle, or aircraft, concerned in such violation shall be forfeited to the United States.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[83 FR 9187, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 27716, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19886, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14536, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7371, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2231, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2141, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3690, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 510.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 510.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 510.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 510.705   Finding of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act;
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 510.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 510.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13466 of June 26, 2008, Executive Order 13551 of August 30, 2010, Executive Order 13570 of April 18, 2011, Executive Order 13687 of January 2, 2015, Executive Order 13722 of March 15, 2016, Executive Order 13810 of September 20, 2017, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 of June 26, 2008, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Presidential Memorandum of May 18, 2016: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the North Korea Policy Enhancement Act of 2016, Presidential Memorandum of September 29, 2017: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, and the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, and Presidential Memorandum of February 21, 2020: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[85 FR 20162, Apr. 10, 2020]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 510.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 515—CUBAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS

[Authority:22 U.S.C. 2370(a), 6001-6010, 7201-7211; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 4301-4341; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); 22 U.S.C. 6021-6091; Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681; Pub. L. 111-8, 123 Stat. 524; Pub. L. 111-117, 123 Stat. 3034; E.O. 9989, 13 FR 4891, 3 CFR, 1943-1948 Comp., p. 748; Proc. 3447, 27 FR 1085, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 157; E.O. 12854, 58 FR 36587, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 614.]
Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2370(a), 6001-6010, 7201-7211; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 4301-4341; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); 22 U.S.C. 6021-6091; Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681; Pub. L. 111-8, 123 Stat. 524; Pub. L. 111-117, 123 Stat. 3034; E.O. 9989, 13 FR 4891, 3 CFR, 1943-1948 Comp., p. 748; Proc. 3447, 27 FR 1085, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 157; E.O. 12854, 58 FR 36587, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 614.
[Source:28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 515.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to one of those parts, or any other provision of law, authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.
(b) No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any law other than the Trading With the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C. 4301-4341, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 22 U.S.C. 2370, or any proclamation, order, regulation or license issued pursuant thereto.
[[50 FR 27437, July 3, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 45106, Aug. 25, 1997; 85 FR 60070, Sept. 24, 2020]]

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 515.201   Transactions involving designated foreign countries or their nationals; effective date.

(a) All of the following transactions are prohibited, except as specifically authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury (or any person, agency, or instrumentality designated by him) by means of regulations, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, if either such transactions are by, or on behalf of, or pursuant to the direction of a foreign country designated under this part, or any national thereof, or such transactions involve property in which a foreign country designated under this part, or any national thereof, has at any time on or since the effective date of this section had any interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect:
(1) All transfers of credit and all payments between, by, through, or to any banking institution or banking institutions wheresoever located, with respect to any property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or by any person (including a banking institution) subject to the jurisdiction of the United States;
(2) All transactions in foreign exchange by any person within the United States; and
(3) The exportation or withdrawal from the United States of gold or silver coin or bullion, currency or securities, or the earmarking of any such property, by any person within the United States.
(b) All of the following transactions are prohibited, except as specifically authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury (or any person, agency, or instrumentality designated by him) by means of regulations, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, if such transactions involve property in which any foreign country designated under this part, or any national thereof, has at any time on or since the effective date of this section had any interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect:
(1) All dealings in, including, without limitation, transfers, withdrawals, or exportations of, any property or evidences of indebtedness or evidences of ownership of property by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; and
(2) All transfers outside the United States with regard to any property or property interest subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(c) Any transaction for the purpose or which has the effect of evading or avoiding any of the prohibitions set forth in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is hereby prohibited.
(d) For the purposes of this part, the term foreign country designated under this part and the term designated foreign country mean Cuba and the term effective date and the term effective date of this section mean with respect to Cuba, or any national thereof, 12:01 a.m., e.s.t., July 8, 1963.
foreign country designated under this part
and the term
designated foreign country
mean Cuba and the term
effective date
and the term
effective date of this section
mean with respect to Cuba, or any national thereof, 12:01 a.m., e.s.t., July 8, 1963.
(e) When a transaction results in the blocking of funds at a banking institution pursuant to this section and a party to the transaction believes the funds have been blocked due to mistaken identity, that party may seek to have such funds unblocked pursuant to the administrative procedures set forth in § 501.806 of this chapter.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 62 FR 45106, Aug. 25, 1997]]

§ 515.202   Transactions with respect to securities registered or inscribed in the name of a designated national.

Unless authorized by a license expressly referring to this section, the acquisition, transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on or otherwise dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) registered or inscribed in the name of any designated national is prohibited irrespective of the fact that at any time (either prior to, on, or subsequent to the “effective date”) the registered or inscribed owner thereof may have, or appears to have, assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of any such security.

§ 515.203   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the “effective date” which is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization thereunder and involves any property in which a designated national has or has had an interest since such “effective date” is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power or privilege with respect to such property.
(b) No transfer before the “effective date” shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or interest in, any property in which a designated national has or has had an interest since the “effective date” unless the person with whom such property is held or maintained had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer prior to such “effective date.”
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury before, during or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or render it enforceable to the same extent as it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of section 5(b) of the Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended, and this part and any ruling, order, regulation, direction or instruction issued hereunder.
(d) Transfers of property which otherwise would be null and void, or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void, or unenforceable pursuant to such provisions, as to any person with whom such property was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property was held or maintained;
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization by or pursuant to the provisions of this part and was not so licensed or authorized or if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) Promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license or other direction or authorization thereunder, or
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury, or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained;
the person with whom such property was held or maintained filed with the Treasury Department, Washington, D.C., a report in triplicate setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer. The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph shall not be deemed to be compliance or evidence of compliance with paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section.
(e) Unless licensed or authorized by § 515.504 or otherwise licensed or authorized pursuant to this chapter any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which on or since the “effective date” there existed the interest of a designated foreign country or national thereof.
(f) For the purpose of this section the term property includes gold, silver, bullion, currency, coin, credit, securities (as that term is defined in section 2(1) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), bills of exchange, notes, drafts, acceptances, checks, letters of credit, book credits, debts, claims, contracts, negotiable documents of title, mortgages, liens, annuities, insurance policies, options and futures in commodities, and evidences of any of the foregoing. The term property shall not, except to the extent indicated, be deemed to include chattels or real property.
property
includes gold, silver, bullion, currency, coin, credit, securities (as that term is defined in section 2(1) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), bills of exchange, notes, drafts, acceptances, checks, letters of credit, book credits, debts, claims, contracts, negotiable documents of title, mortgages, liens, annuities, insurance policies, options and futures in commodities, and evidences of any of the foregoing. The term
property
shall not, except to the extent indicated, be deemed to include chattels or real property.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 28 FR 7941, Aug. 3, 1963]]

§ 515.204   Importation of and dealings in certain merchandise.

(a) Except as specifically authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury (or any person, agency, or instrumentality designated by him) by means of regulations, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, no person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States may purchase, transport, import, or otherwise deal in or engage in any transaction with respect to any merchandise outside the United States if such merchandise:
(1) Is of Cuban origin; or
(2) Is or has been located in or transported from or through Cuba; or
(3) Is made or derived in whole or in part of any article which is the growth, produce or manufacture of Cuba.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 515.205   Holding of certain types of blocked property in interest-bearing accounts.

(a) Except as provided by paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section, or as authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate by specific license, any person holding any property included in paragraph (h) of this section is prohibited from holding, withholding, using, transferring, engaging in any transactions involving, or exercising any right, power, or privilege with respect to any such property, unless it is held in an interest-bearing account in a domestic bank.
(b) Any person presently holding property subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section which, as of the effective date of this section, is not being held in accordance with the provisions of that paragraph shall transfer such property to or hold such property or cause such property to be held in an interest-bearing account in any domestic bank within 30 days of the effective date of this section.
(c) Any person holding any checks or drafts subject to the provisions of § 515.201 is authorized and directed, wherever possible consistent with state law (except as otherwise specifically provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section), to negotiate or present for collection or payment such instruments and credit the proceeds to interest-bearing accounts. Any transaction by any person incident to the negotiation, processing. presentment, collection or payment of such instruments and deposit of the proceeds into an interest-bearing account is hereby authorized: Provided that:
Provided that:
(1) The transaction does not represent, directly or indirectly, a transfer of the interest of a designated national to any other country or person;
(2) The proceeds are held in a blocked account indicating the designated national who is the payee or owner of the instrument; and,
(3) In the case of a blocked check or draft which has been purchased by the maker/drawer from the drawee bank (e.g., cashier's check, money order, or traveler's check) or which is drawn against a presently existing account, such bank, on presentment of the instrument in accordance with the provisions of this section, shall either:
(i) Pay the instrument (subject to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section) or
(ii) Credit a blocked account on its books with the amount payable on the instrument.
In either event, the blocked account shall be identified as resulting from the proceeds of a blocked check or draft, and the identification shall include a reference to the names of both the maker and payee of the instrument.
(d) Property subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, held by a person claiming a set-off against such property, is exempt from the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section to the extent of the set-off: Provided however, That interest shall be due from 30 days after the effective date of this section if it should ultimately be determined that the claim to a set-off is without merit.
Provided however,
That interest shall be due from 30 days after the effective date of this section if it should ultimately be determined that the claim to a set-off is without merit.
(e) Property subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, held in a customer's account by a registered broker/dealer in securities, may continue to be held for the customer by the broker/dealer provided interest is credited to the account on any balance not invested in securities in accordance with § 515.513. The interest paid on such accounts by a broker/dealer who does not elect to hold such property for a customer's account in a domestic bank shall not be less than the maximum rate payable on the shortest time deposit available in any domestic bank in the jurisdiction in which the broker/dealer holds the account.
(f) Property subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, held by a state agency charged with the custody of abandoned or unclaimed property under § 515.554 may continue to be held by the agency provided interest is credited to the blocked account in which the property is held by the agency, or the property is held by the agency in a blocked account in a domestic bank. The interest credited to such accounts by an agency which does not elect to hold such property in a domestic bank shall not be less than the maximum rate payable on the shortest time deposit available in any domestic bank in the state.
(g) For purposes of this section, the term interest-bearing account means a blocked account earning interest at no less than the maximum rate payable on the shortest time deposit in the domestic bank where the account is held: Provided however, That such an account may include six-month Treasury bills or insured certificates, with a maturity not exceeding six-months, appropriate to the amounts involved.
interest-bearing account
means a blocked account earning interest at no less than the maximum rate payable on the shortest time deposit in the domestic bank where the account is held:
Provided however,
That such an account may include six-month Treasury bills or insured certificates, with a maturity not exceeding six-months, appropriate to the amounts involved.
(h) The following types of property are subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(1) Any currency, bank deposit and bank accounts subject to the provisions of § 515.201;
(2) Any property subject to the provisions of § 515.201 which consists, in whole or in part, of undisputed and either liquidated or matured debts, claims, obligations or other evidence of indebtedness, to the extent of any amount that is undisputed and liquidated or matured; and
(3) Any proceeds resulting from the payment of an obligation under paragraph (c) of this section.
(i) For purposes of this section, the term domestic bank includes any FSLIC-insured institution (as defined in 12 CFR 561.1).
domestic bank
includes any FSLIC-insured institution (as defined in 12 CFR 561.1).
(j) For the purposes of this section the term person includes the United States Government or any agency or instrumentality thereof, except where the agency or instrumentality submits to the Office of Foreign Assets Control an opinion of its General Counsel that either:
person
includes the United States Government or any agency or instrumentality thereof, except where the agency or instrumentality submits to the Office of Foreign Assets Control an opinion of its General Counsel that either:
(1) It lacks statutory authority to comply with this section, or
(2) The requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are inconsistent with the statutory program under which it operates.
[[44 FR 11770, Mar. 2, 1979]]

§ 515.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) Information and informational materials. (1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of information or informational materials as defined in § 515.332, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions and regulations of this part except for payments owed to Cuba for telecommunications services between Cuba and the United States, which are subject to the provisions of § 515.542.
Information and informational materials.
(1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of information or informational materials as defined in § 515.332, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions and regulations of this part except for payments owed to Cuba for telecommunications services between Cuba and the United States, which are subject to the provisions of § 515.542.
(2) This section does not authorize transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transaction, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services by a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Such prohibited transactions include, without limitation, payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed, provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create or assist in the creation of information or informational materials, and payment of royalties to a designated national with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to information or informational materials imported from a designated national.
(3) This section does not authorize transactions incident to the transmission of restricted technical data as defined in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730-774, or to the exportation of goods for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such goods to designated foreign countries is prohibited, as provided in § 515.201 of this part and § 785.1 of the Export Administration Regulations.
(4) This section does not authorize transactions related to travel to Cuba when such travel is not otherwise authorized under § 515.545.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
See § 515.545 for general licenses authorizing certain travel-related and other transactions that are directly incident to the export, import, or transmission of informational materials and certain transactions related to the creation, dissemination, or artistic or other substantive alteration or enhancement of informational materials.
(b) Donation of food. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions incident to the donation of food to nongovernmental organizations or individuals in Cuba.
Donation of food.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions incident to the donation of food to nongovernmental organizations or individuals in Cuba.
[[54 FR 5233, Feb. 2, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 39256, Aug. 2, 1995; 64 FR 25812, May 13, 1999; 81 FR 4584, Jan. 27, 2016]]

§ 515.207   Entry of vessels engaged in trade with Cuba.

Except as specifically authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury (or any person, agency or instrumentality designated by him), by means of regulations, rulings, instructions, licenses or otherwise,
(a) No vessel that enters a port or place in Cuba to engage in the trade of goods or the purchase or provision of services, may enter a U.S. port for the purpose of loading or unloading freight for a period of 180 days from the date the vessel departed from a port or place in Cuba; and
(b) No vessel carrying goods or passengers to or from Cuba or carrying goods in which Cuba or a Cuban national has an interest may enter a U.S. port with such goods or passengers on board.
Note to § 515.207:
For the waiver of the prohibitions contained in this section for vessels engaged in certain trade and travel with Cuba, see § 515.550.
[[58 FR 34710, June 29, 1993, as amended at 66 FR 36687, July 12, 2001; 80 FR 2292, Jan. 16, 2015; 80 FR 56918, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.208   Restrictions on loans, credits and other financing.

No United States national, permanent resident alien, or United States agency may knowingly make a loan, extend credit or provide other financing for the purpose of financing transactions involving confiscated property the claim to which is owned by a United States national, except for financing by a United States national owning such a claim for a transaction permitted under United States law.
[[61 FR 37386, July 18, 1996]]

§ 515.209   Restrictions on direct financial transactions with certain entities and subentities.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, no person subject to U.S. jurisdiction may engage in a direct financial transaction with any person that the Secretary of State has identified as an entity or subentity that is under the control of, or acts for or on behalf of, the Cuban military, intelligence, or security services or personnel and with which direct financial transactions would disproportionately benefit such services or personnel at the expense of the Cuban people or private enterprise in Cuba. For purposes of this prohibition, a person engages in a direct financial transaction by acting as the originator on a transfer of funds whose ultimate beneficiary is an entity or subentity on the State Department's List of Restricted Entities and Subentities Associated with Cuba (“Cuba Restricted List”) or as the ultimate beneficiary on a transfer of funds whose originator is an entity or subentity on the Cuba Restricted List, including a transaction by wire transfer, credit card, check, or payment of cash. This prohibition does not apply to certain transactions set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
The names of entities and subentities that the Secretary of State has identified as meeting the criteria set forth in this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Cuba Restricted List. Entities or subentities that are owned or controlled by another entity or subentity on this list are not treated as restricted unless also specified by name on the Cuba Restricted List. The Cuba Restricted List is maintained by the State Department and will be published in the Federal Register. It is also accessible through the following page on the State Department's website: https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/”.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Cuba Restricted List. Entities or subentities that are owned or controlled by another entity or subentity on this list are not treated as restricted unless also specified by name on the Cuba Restricted List. The Cuba Restricted List is maintained by the State Department and will be published in the
Federal Register.
It is also accessible through the following page on the State Department's website:
https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/”.
(b) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any travel-related transactions, including those that involve direct financial transactions with an entity or subentity on the Cuba Restricted List, provided those travel-related transactions were initiated prior to the date that entity or subentity was added to the Cuba Restricted List as published in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.
(c) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any transactions related to commercial engagements that involve direct financial transactions with an entity or subentity on the Cuba Restricted List, provided those commercial engagements were in place prior to the date that entity or subentity was added to the Cuba Restricted List as published in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.
Note 1 to § 515.209:
This section does not prohibit a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction from participating in an indirect financial transaction, such as those authorized pursuant to § 515.584(d) relating to funds transfers or § 515.584(g) relating to U.S. dollar monetary instruments, where the person does not act as the originator or beneficiary on a transfer of funds.
Note 2 to § 515.209:
A transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving an entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List is not authorized as a transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude any such transactions. See §§ 515.570, 515.572(a)(3), and 515.587.
See
§§ 515.570, 515.572(a)(3), and 515.587.
[[82 FR 51999, Nov. 9, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 47122, Sept. 9, 2019; 85 FR 60070, Sept. 24, 2020; 85 FR 67989, Oct. 27, 2020; 89 FR 46324, May 29, 2024]]

§ 515.210   Restrictions on lodging, paying for lodging, or making reservations at certain properties in Cuba.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, no person subject to U.S. jurisdiction may lodge, pay for lodging, or otherwise make any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property in Cuba that the Secretary of State has identified as a property that is owned or controlled by the Cuban government, a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, a close relative, as defined in § 515.339, of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, or a close relative of a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party. Such properties are identified on the State Department's Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List (CPA List). This prohibition does not apply to certain transactions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
The names, addresses, or other identifying details, as relevant, of properties that the Secretary of State has identified as meeting the criteria set forth in this section are incorporated in the CPA List as published in the Federal Register. The CPA List is also accessible through the following page on the State Department's website: www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-prohibited-accommodations.
Federal Register.
The CPA List is also accessible through the following page on the State Department's website:
www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-prohibited-accommodations.
(b) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to lodging-related transactions initiated prior to the date that the property was added to the CPA List as published in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.
[[85 FR 60070, Sept. 24, 2020]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 515.301   Foreign country.

The term foreign country also includes, but not by way of limitation:
foreign country
also includes, but not by way of limitation:
(a) The state and the government of any such territory on or after the “effective date” as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof or any territory, dependency, colony, protectorate, mandate, dominion, possession or place subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
(b) Any other government (including any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof) to the extent and only to the extent that such government exercises or claims to exercise control, authority, jurisdiction or sovereignty over territory which on the “effective date” constituted such foreign country,
(c) Any person to the extent that such person is, or has been, or to the extent that there is reasonable cause to believe that such person is, or has been, since the “effective date,” acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly for the benefit or on behalf of any of the foregoing, and
(d) Any territory which on or since the “effective date” is controlled or occupied by the military, naval or police forces or other authority of such foreign country.

§ 515.302   National.

(a) The term national when used with respect to a country shall include:
(1) A subject or citizen of that country or any person who has been domiciled in or a permanent resident of that country at any time on or since the “effective date,” except persons who were permanent residents of or domiciled in that country in the service of the U.S. Government and persons whose transactions in that country were authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(2) Any partnership, association, corporation, or other organization that, on or since the effective date:
(i) Was or has been organized under the laws of that country;
(ii) Had or has had its principal place of business in that country; or
(iii) Was or has been controlled by, or a substantial part of the stocks, share, bonds, debentures, notes, drafts, or other securities or obligations of which was or has been controlled by, directly or indirectly, that country and/or one or more nationals thereof.
(3) Any organization's office or other sub-unit that is located within that country.
(4) Any person to the extent that such person, on or since the “effective date” was or has been acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly for the benefit or on behalf of any national of that country.
(5) Any other person who there is reasonable cause to believe is a “national” as defined in this section.
(b) Persons who travel in Cuba do not become nationals of Cuba solely because of such travel.
(c) The Secretary of the Treasury retains full power to determine that any person is or shall be deemed to be a “national” within the meaning of this section, and to specify the foreign country of which such person is or shall be deemed to be a national.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 50 FR 27437, July 3, 1985; 64 FR 25812, May 13, 1999; 68 FR 14144, Mar. 24, 2003]]

§ 515.303   Nationals of more than one foreign country.

(a) Any person who by virtue of any provision in this chapter is a national of more than one foreign country shall be deemed to be a national of each of such foreign countries.
(b) In any case in which a person is a national of two or more designated foreign countries, as defined in this chapter, a license or authorization with respect to nationals of one of such designated foreign countries shall not be deemed to apply to such person unless a license or authorization of equal or greater scope is outstanding with respect to nationals of each other designated foreign country of which such person is a national.
(c) In any case in which the combined interests of two or more designated foreign countries, as defined in this chapter, and/or nationals thereof are sufficient in the aggregate to constitute control or ownership of 25 per centum or more of the stock, shares, bonds, debentures, notes, drafts, or other securities or obligations of a partnership, association, corporation or other organization, but such control or a substantial part of such stock, shares, bonds, debentures, notes, drafts, or other securities or obligations is not held by any one such foreign country and/or national thereof, such partnership, association, corporation or other organization shall be deemed to be a national of each of such foreign countries.

§ 515.305   Designated national.

For the purposes of this part, the term designated national shall mean Cuba and any national thereof including any person who is a specially designated national.
designated national
shall mean Cuba and any national thereof including any person who is a specially designated national.

§ 515.306   Specially designated national.

(a) The term specially designated national shall mean:
specially designated national
shall mean:
(1) Any person who is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be a specially designated national,
(2) Any person who on or since the “effective date” has acted for or on behalf of the Government or authorities exercising control over a designated foreign country, or
(3) Any partnership, association, corporation or other organization which on or since the “effective date” has been owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Government or authorities exercising control over a designated foreign country or by any specially designated national.
(b) [Reserved]
Note to § 515.306:
Please refer to the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) for a non-exhaustive listing of persons determined to fall within this definition, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this part. The SDN List entries for such persons include the identifier “[CUBA].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Section 501.807 of this chapter sets forth the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of their designation or that of a vessel as blocked, or who wish to assert that the circumstances resulting in the designation are no longer applicable.
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Section 501.807 of this chapter sets forth the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of their designation or that of a vessel as blocked, or who wish to assert that the circumstances resulting in the designation are no longer applicable.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 61 FR 32938, June 26, 1996; 62 FR 45106, Aug. 25, 1997; 76 FR 38585, June 30, 2011]]

§ 515.307   Unblocked national.

Any person licensed pursuant to § 515.505 as an unblocked national shall, while so licensed, be regarded as a person who is not a national of any designated foreign country.
unblocked national
shall, while so licensed, be regarded as a person who is not a national of any designated foreign country.
[[80 FR 2292, Jan. 16, 2015]]

§ 515.308   Person.

The term person means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other organization.
person
means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other organization.

§ 515.309   Transactions.

The phrase transactions which involve property in which a designated foreign country, or any national thereof, has any interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect, includes, but not by way of limitation:
transactions which involve property in which a designated foreign country, or any national thereof, has any interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect,
includes, but not by way of limitation:
(a) Any payment or transfer to such designated foreign country or national thereof,
(b) Any export or withdrawal from the United States to such designated foreign country, and
(c) Any transfer of credit, or payment of an obligation, expressed in terms of the currency of such designated foreign country.

§ 515.310   Transfer.

The term transfer shall mean any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or preformed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and without limitation upon the foregoing shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or other fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or the levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition, or the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power.
transfer
shall mean any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or preformed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and without limitation upon the foregoing shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or other fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or the levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition, or the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power.

§ 515.311   Property; property interests.

(a) Except as defined in § 515.203(f) for the purposes of that section the terms property and property interest or property interests shall include, but not by way of limitation, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness obligations, notes, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, and other financial securities, bankers' acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, real estate and any interest therein, leaseholds, ground rents, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks, copyrights, contracts or licenses affecting or involving patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, contracts of any nature whatsoever, services, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
property
and
property interest
or
property interests
shall include, but not by way of limitation, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness obligations, notes, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, and other financial securities, bankers' acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, real estate and any interest therein, leaseholds, ground rents, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks, copyrights, contracts or licenses affecting or involving patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, contracts of any nature whatsoever, services, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
(b) As used in § 515.208, the term property means any property (including patents, copyrights, trademarks, and any other form of intellectual property), whether real, personal, or mixed, and any present, future, or contingent right, security, or other interest therein, including any leasehold interest.
property
means any property (including patents, copyrights, trademarks, and any other form of intellectual property), whether real, personal, or mixed, and any present, future, or contingent right, security, or other interest therein, including any leasehold interest.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 50 FR 27437, July 3, 1985; 56 FR 49847, Oct. 2, 1991; 61 FR 37386, July 18, 1996]]

§ 515.312   Interest.

The term interest when used with respect to property shall mean an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
when used with respect to property shall mean an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 515.313   Property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(a) The phrase property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States includes, without limitation, securities, whether registered or bearer, issued by:
property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States
includes, without limitation, securities, whether registered or bearer, issued by:
(1) The United States or any State, district, territory, possession, county, municipality, or any other subdivision or agency or instrumentality of any thereof; or
(2) Any person with the United States whether the certificate which evidences such property or interest is physically located within or outside the United States.
(b) The phrase property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States also includes, without limitation, securities, whether registered or bearer, by whomsoever issued, if the instrument evidencing such property or interest is physically located within the United States.
property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States
also includes, without limitation, securities, whether registered or bearer, by whomsoever issued, if the instrument evidencing such property or interest is physically located within the United States.

§ 515.314   Banking institution.

The term banking institution shall include any person engaged primarily or incidentally in the business of banking, of granting or transferring credits, or of purchasing or selling foreign exchange or procuring purchases and sellers thereof, as principal or agent, or any person holding credits for others as a direct or incidental part of his business, or any broker; and, each principal, agent, home office, branch or correspondent of any person so engaged shall be regarded as a separate “banking institution.”
banking institution
shall include any person engaged primarily or incidentally in the business of banking, of granting or transferring credits, or of purchasing or selling foreign exchange or procuring purchases and sellers thereof, as principal or agent, or any person holding credits for others as a direct or incidental part of his business, or any broker; and, each principal, agent, home office, branch or correspondent of any person so engaged shall be regarded as a separate “banking institution.”

§ 515.316   License.

Except as otherwise specified, the term license shall mean any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
shall mean any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.

§ 515.317   General license.

A general license is any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in this part.

§ 515.318   Specific license.

A specific license is any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in this part.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963; 28 FR 7427, July 20, 1963]]

§ 515.319   Blocked account.

The term blocked account shall mean an account in which any designated national has an interest, with respect to which account payments, transfers or withdrawals or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license authorizing such action. The term blocked account shall not be deemed to include accounts of unblocked nationals.
blocked account
shall mean an account in which any designated national has an interest, with respect to which account payments, transfers or withdrawals or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license authorizing such action. The term
blocked account
shall not be deemed to include accounts of unblocked nationals.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963; 28 FR 7427, July 20, 1963]]

§ 515.320   Domestic bank.

The term domestic bank shall mean any branch or office within the United States of any of the following which is not a national of a designated foreign country; any bank or trust company incorporated under the banking laws of the United States or any State, territory, or district of the United States, or any private bank or banker subject to supervision and examination under the banking laws of the United States or of any State, territory or district of the United States. The Secretary of the Treasury may also authorize any other banking institution to be treated as a “domestic bank” for the purpose of this definition or for the purpose of any or all sections of this part.
domestic bank
shall mean any branch or office within the United States of any of the following which is not a national of a designated foreign country; any bank or trust company incorporated under the banking laws of the United States or any State, territory, or district of the United States, or any private bank or banker subject to supervision and examination under the banking laws of the United States or of any State, territory or district of the United States. The Secretary of the Treasury may also authorize any other banking institution to be treated as a “domestic bank” for the purpose of this definition or for the purpose of any or all sections of this part.

§ 515.321   United States; continental United States.

The term United States means the United States and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof, including the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. The term continental United States means the States of the United States and the District of Columbia.
United States
means the United States and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof, including the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. The term
continental United States
means the States of the United States and the District of Columbia.
[[49 FR 27144, July 2, 1984]]

§ 515.322   Authorized trade territory; member of the authorized trade territory.

(a) The term authorized trade territory includes all countries, including any colony, territory, possession, or protectorate, except those countries subject to sanctions pursuant to this chapter. The term does not include the United States.
authorized trade territory
includes all countries, including any colony, territory, possession, or protectorate, except those countries subject to sanctions pursuant to this chapter. The term does not include the United States.
(b) The term member of the authorized trade territory shall mean any of the foreign countries or political subdivisions comprising the authorized trade territory.
member of the authorized trade territory
shall mean any of the foreign countries or political subdivisions comprising the authorized trade territory.
[[43 FR 51762, Nov. 7, 1978, as amended at 60 FR 54195, Oct. 20, 1995]]

§ 515.323   Occupied area.

The term occupied area shall mean any territory occupied by a designated foreign country which was not occupied by such country prior to the “effective date” of this part.
occupied area
shall mean any territory occupied by a designated foreign country which was not occupied by such country prior to the “effective date” of this part.

§ 515.325   National securities exchange.

The term national securities exchange shall mean an exchange registered as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 885, 15 U.S.C. 78f).
national securities exchange
shall mean an exchange registered as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 885, 15 U.S.C. 78f).

§ 515.326   Custody of safe deposit boxes.

Safe deposit boxes shall be deemed to be in the custody not only of all persons having access thereto but also of the lessors of such boxes whether or not such lessors have access to such boxes. The foregoing shall not in any way be regarded as a limitation upon the meaning of the term custody.
custody
not only of all persons having access thereto but also of the lessors of such boxes whether or not such lessors have access to such boxes. The foregoing shall not in any way be regarded as a limitation upon the meaning of the term
custody.

§ 515.327   Blocked estate of a decedent.

The term blocked estate of a decedent shall mean any decedent's estate in which a designated national has an interest. A person shall be deemed to have an interest in a decedent's estate if he:
blocked estate of a decedent
shall mean any decedent's estate in which a designated national has an interest. A person shall be deemed to have an interest in a decedent's estate if he:
(a) Was the decedent;
(b) Is a personal representative; or
(c) Is a creditor, heir, legatee, devisee, distributee, or beneficiary.

§ 515.329   Person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.

The terms person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and person subject to U.S. jurisdiction include:
person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States
and
person subject to U.S. jurisdiction
include:
(a) Any individual, wherever located, who is a citizen or resident of the United States;
(b) Any person within the United States as defined in § 515.330;
(c) Any corporation, partnership, association, or other organization organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, territory, possession, or district of the United States; and
(d) Any corporation, partnership, association, or other organization, wherever organized or doing business, that is owned or controlled by persons specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of this section.
[[50 FR 27437, July 3, 1985, as amended at 68 FR 14145, Mar. 24, 2003; 80 FR 2292, Jan. 16, 2015; 81 FR 13991, Mar. 16, 2016]]

§ 515.330   Person within the United States.

(a) The term person within the United States, includes:
person within the United States,
includes:
(1) Any person, wheresoever located, who is a resident of the United States;
(2) Any person actually within the United States;
(3) Any corporation, partnership, association, or other organization organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, territory, possession, or district of the United States; and
(4) Any corporation, partnership, association, or other organization, wherever organized or doing business, which is owned or controlled by any person or persons specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section.
(b) [Reserved]
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 68 FR 14145, Mar. 24, 2003]]

§ 515.331   Merchandise.

The term merchandise means all goods, wares and chattels of every description without limitation of any kind.
merchandise
means all goods, wares and chattels of every description without limitation of any kind.

§ 515.332   Information and informational materials.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term information and informational materials means:
information and informational materials
means:
(1) Publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, news wire feeds, and other information and informational articles.
(2) To be considered informational materials, artworks must be classified under Chapter subheading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information and informational materials does not include items:
information and informational materials
does not include items:
(1) That would be controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1993) (the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote nonproliferation of antiterrorism policies of the United States, including “software” that is not “publicly available” as these terms are defined in 15 CFR parts 779 and 799.1 (1994); or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
[[60 FR 39256, Aug. 2, 1995]]

§ 515.333   Depository institution.

The term depository institution means any of the following:
depository institution
means any of the following:
(a) An insured bank as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
(b) An insured institution as defined in section 408(a) of the National Housing Act;
(c) An insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act; or
(d) Any other institution that is carrying on banking activities pursuant to a charter from a Federal or state banking authority.
[[57 FR 53997, Nov. 16, 1992]]

§ 515.334   United States national.

As used in § 515.208, the term United States national means:
United States national
means:
(a) Any United States citizen; or
(b) Any other legal entity which is organized under the laws of the United States, or of any State, the District of Columbia, or any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and which has its principal place of business in the United States.
[[61 FR 37386, July 18, 1996]]

§ 515.335   Permanent resident alien.

As used in § 515.208, the term permanent resident alien means an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence into the United States.
permanent resident alien
means an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence into the United States.
[[61 FR 37386, July 18, 1996]]

§ 515.336   Confiscated.

As used in § 515.208, the term confiscated refers to:
confiscated
refers to:
(a) The nationalization, expropriation, or other seizure by the Cuban Government of ownership or control of property, on or after January 1, 1959:
(1) Without the property having been returned or adequate and effective compensation provided; or
(2) Without the claim to the property having been settled pursuant to an international claims settlement agreement or other mutually accepted settlement procedure; and
(b) The repudiation by the Cuban Government of, the default by the Cuban Government on, or the failure of the Cuban Government to pay, on or after January 1, 1959:
(1) A debt of any enterprise which has been nationalized, expropriated, or otherwise taken by the Cuban Government;
(2) A debt which is a charge on property nationalized, expropriated, or otherwise taken by the Cuban Government; or
(3) A debt which was incurred by the Cuban Government in satisfaction or settlement of a confiscated property claim.
[[61 FR 37386, July 18, 1996]]

§ 515.337   Prohibited officials of the Government of Cuba.

For purposes of this part, the term prohibited officials of the Government of Cuba means Ministers and Vice-Ministers; members of the Council of State and the Council of Ministers; members and employees of the National Assembly of People's Power; members of any provincial assembly; local sector chiefs of the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution; Director Generals and sub-Director Generals and higher of all Cuban ministries and state agencies; employees of the Ministry of the Interior (MININT); employees of the Ministry of Defense (MINFAR); secretaries and first secretaries of the Confederation of Labor of Cuba (CTC) and its component unions; chief editors, editors, and deputy editors of Cuban state-run media organizations and programs, including newspapers, television, and radio; and members and employees of the Supreme Court (Tribuno Supremo Nacional).
prohibited officials of the Government of Cuba
means Ministers and Vice-Ministers; members of the Council of State and the Council of Ministers; members and employees of the National Assembly of People's Power; members of any provincial assembly; local sector chiefs of the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution; Director Generals and sub-Director Generals and higher of all Cuban ministries and state agencies; employees of the Ministry of the Interior (MININT); employees of the Ministry of Defense (MINFAR); secretaries and first secretaries of the Confederation of Labor of Cuba (CTC) and its component unions; chief editors, editors, and deputy editors of Cuban state-run media organizations and programs, including newspapers, television, and radio; and members and employees of the Supreme Court (Tribuno Supremo Nacional).
[[82 FR 51999, Nov. 9, 2017]]

§ 515.338   Prohibited members of the Cuban Communist Party.

For purposes of this part, the term prohibited members of the Cuban Communist Party means members of the Politburo.
prohibited members of the Cuban Communist Party
means members of the Politburo.
[[81 FR 71374, Oct. 17, 2016]]

§ 515.339   Close relative.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term close relative used with respect to any person means any individual related to that person by blood, marriage, or adoption who is no more than three generations removed from that person or from a common ancestor with that person.
close relative
used with respect to any person means any individual related to that person by blood, marriage, or adoption who is no more than three generations removed from that person or from a common ancestor with that person.
(b) Example. Your mother's first cousin is your close relative for purposes of this part, because you are both no more than three generations removed from your great-grandparents, who are the ancestors you have in common. Similarly, your husband's great-grandson is your close relative for purposes of this part, because he is no more than three generations removed from your husband. Your daughter's father-in-law is not your close relative for purposes of this part, because you have no common ancestor.
Example.
Your mother's first cousin is your close relative for purposes of this part, because you are both no more than three generations removed from your great-grandparents, who are the ancestors you have in common. Similarly, your husband's great-grandson is your close relative for purposes of this part, because he is no more than three generations removed from your husband. Your daughter's father-in-law is not your close relative for purposes of this part, because you have no common ancestor.
[[74 FR 46003, Sept. 8, 2009]]

§ 515.340   Independent private sector entrepreneur.

The term independent private sector entrepreneur means a Cuban national who is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, and is one or more of the following:
independent private sector entrepreneur
means a Cuban national who is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, and is one or more of the following:
(a) An owner, including a self-employed individual (cuentapropista), or employee of a small private business entity, private cooperative, or a sole proprietorship located in Cuba, in each case of up to 100 employees;
cuentapropista
), or employee of a small private business entity, private cooperative, or a sole proprietorship located in Cuba, in each case of up to 100 employees;
(b) An independent contractor or consultant;
(c) A small farmer who owns his or her own land;
(d) A small usufruct farmer who cultivates state-owned land to sell products on the open market; or
(e) A private cooperative or small private business entity located in Cuba of up to 100 employees that is owned only by individuals described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
[[84 FR 47122, Sept. 9, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 46324, May 29, 2024]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 515.401   Reference to amended sections.

Reference to any section of this part or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction or license issued pursuant to this part shall be deemed to refer to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 515.402   Effect of amendment of sections of this part or of other orders, etc.

Any amendment, modification, or revocation of any section of this part or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 3(a) or 5(b) of the Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended, or pursuant to Proclamation 3447, shall not unless otherwise specifically provided be deemed to affect any act done or omitted to be done, or any suit or proceeding had or commenced in any civil or criminal case, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation, and all penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such section, order, regulation, ruling, instruction or license shall continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 515.403   Termination and acquisition of the interest of a designated national.

(a) Except as provided in § 515.525, whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a designated national, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property in which a designated national has or has had an interest unless there exists in such property an interest of a designated national, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred to a designated national such property shall be deemed to be property in which there exists the interest of a designated national.

§ 515.404   Transactions between principal and agent.

A transaction between any person within the United States and any principal, agent, home office, branch, or correspondent, outside the United States of such person is a transaction prohibited by § 515.201 to the same extent as if the parties to the transaction were in no way affiliated or associated with each other.

§ 515.405   Exportation of securities, currency, checks, drafts and promissory notes.

Section 515.201 prohibits the exportation of securities, currency, checks, drafts and promissory notes to a designated foreign country.

§ 515.406   Drafts under irrevocable letters of credit; documentary drafts.

Section 515.201 prohibits the presentation, acceptance or payment of:
(a) Drafts or other orders for payment drawn under irrevocable letters of credit issued in favor or on behalf of any designated national;
(b) Drafts or other orders for payment, in which any designated national has on or since the “effective date” had any interest, drawn under any irrevocable letter of credit; and
(c) Documentary drafts in which any designated national has on or since the “effective date” had any interest.

§ 515.407   Administration of blocked estates of decedents.

With respect to transactions incident to the administration of the blocked estate of a decedent, including the appointment and qualification of personal representatives, the collection and liquidation of assets, the payment of claims, and distribution to beneficiaries, attention is directed to § 515.523, which authorizes all transactions incident to the administration and distribution of the assets of blocked estates of decedents.
[[80 FR 56919, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.408   Access to certain safe deposit boxes prohibited.

Section 515.201 prohibits access to any safe deposit box within the United States in the custody of any designated national or containing any property in which any designated national has any interest or which there is reasonable cause to believe contains property in which any such designated national has any interest. Attention is directed to § 515.517 which authorizes access to such safe deposit boxes under certain conditions.

§ 515.409   Certain payments to a designated foreign country and nationals through third countries.

Section 515.201 prohibits any request or authorization made by or on behalf of a bank or other person within the United States to a bank or other person outside of the United States as a result of which request or authorization such latter bank or person makes a payment or transfer of credit either directly or indirectly to a designated national.

§ 515.410   Dealing abroad in Cuban-origin commodities.

Section 515.204 prohibits, unless licensed, the importation of commodities of Cuban origin. It also prohibits, unless licensed, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States from purchasing, transporting or otherwise dealing in commodities of Cuban origin which are outside the United States. Attention is directed to § 515.585, which authorizes certain dealings in commodities of Cuban origin outside the United States.
[[81 FR 13991, Mar. 16, 2016]]

§§ 515.411-515.413   [Reserved]


§ 515.415   Travel to Cuba; transportation of certain Cuban nationals.

(a) The following transactions are prohibited by § 515.201 when in connection with the transportation of any Cuban national, except a Cuban national holding an unexpired immigrant or non-immigrant visa or a returning resident of the United States, from Cuba to the United States, unless otherwise licensed:
(1) Transactions incident to travel to, from, or within Cuba;
(2) The transportation to Cuba of a vessel or aircraft;
(3) The transportation into the United States of any vessel or aircraft which has been in Cuba since the effective date, regardless of registry;
(4) The provision of any services to a Cuban national, regardless of whether any consideration for such services is furnished by the Cuban national;
(5) The transportation or importation of baggage or other property of a Cuban national;
(6) The transfer of funds or other property to any person where such transfer involves the provision of services to a Cuban national or the transportation or importation of, or any transactions involving, property in which Cuba or any Cuban national has any interest, including baggage or other such property;
(7) Any other transaction such as payment of port fees and charges in Cuba and payment for fuel, meals, lodging; and
(8) The receipt or acceptance of any gratuity, grant, or support in the form of meals, lodging, fuel, payments of travel or maintenance expenses, or otherwise, in connection with travel to or from Cuba or travel or maintenance within Cuba.
(b) Transactions incident to the travel to the United States of Cuban nationals who are traveling other than in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government are not authorized under the provisions of § 515.571.
(c) Transactions described in paragraph (a) of this section are not “transactions ordinarily incident to travel to and from Cuba” as set forth in § 515.560(c).
[[45 FR 32671, May 19, 1980, as amended at 64 FR 25812, May 13, 1999; 80 FR 56919, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§§ 515.416-515.419   [Reserved]


§ 515.420   Travel to Cuba.

The prohibition on dealing in property in which Cuba or a Cuban national has an interest set forth in § 515.201(b)(1) includes a prohibition on the receipt of goods or services in Cuba, even if provided free-of-charge by the Government of Cuba or a national of Cuba or paid for by a third-country national who is not subject to U.S. jurisdiction. The prohibition set forth in § 515.201(b)(1) also prohibits payment for air travel by a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction to Cuba on a third-country carrier unless the travel is pursuant to an OFAC general or specific license.
[[69 FR 33771, June 16, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 71374, Oct. 17, 2016]]

§ 515.421   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) A transaction by or with a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude transactions with such persons;
(2) A transaction involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property that is not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license;
(3) A transaction prohibited by § 515.208;
(4) In the case of export or reexport-related transactions authorized by § 515.533(a), payment or financing that is not authorized by § 515.533 or § 515.584(f);
Note to paragraph (
a
)(4):
See § 515.533(a)(4) for payment and financing terms for exportations or reexportations authorized pursuant to § 515.533.
(5) A direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude such a transaction;
(6) Lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210, where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude such a transaction; or
(7) A transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving any entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List, as published in the Federal Register and maintained by the State Department and available at https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/, where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude any such transactions.
Federal Register
and maintained by the State Department and available at
https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/,
where the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude any such transactions.
(b) Examples. (1) A specific license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Cuban Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks.
Examples.
(1) A specific license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Cuban Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks.
(2) A general license authorizing a person to import certain goods from independent private sector entrepreneurs also authorizes funds transfers or payments that are ordinarily incident to the importation, including payments made using online payment platforms.
[[80 FR 56919, Sept. 21, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 4584, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 71374, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60070, Sept. 24, 2020; 85 FR 67989, Oct. 27, 2020; 89 FR 46324, May 29, 2024]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 515.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[[68 FR 53657, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 515.502   Effect of subsequent license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 3(a) or 5(b) of the Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended, or section 620(a), Pub. L. 87-195, or Proclamation 3447, shall be deemed to authorize or validate any transaction effected prior to the issuance thereof, unless such license or other authorization specifically so provides.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes a transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Treasury Department and specifically refers to this part.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 80 FR 56919, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.503   Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to exclude from the operation of any license or from the privileges therein conferred or to restrict the applicability thereof with respect to particular persons, transactions or property or classes thereof. Such action shall be binding upon all persons receiving actual notice or constructive notice thereof.

§ 515.504   Certain judicial proceedings with respect to property of designated nationals.

(a) Subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section judicial proceedings are authorized with respect to property in which on or since the “effective date” there has existed the interest of a designated national.
(b) A judicial proceeding is authorized by this section only if it is based upon a cause of action which accrued prior to the “effective date”.
(c) This section does not authorize or license:
(1) The entry of any judgment or of any decree or order of similar or analogous effect upon any judgment book, minute book, journal or otherwise, or the docketing of any judgment in any docket book, or the filing of any judgment roll or the taking of any other similar or analogous action.
(2) Any payment or delivery out of a blocked account based upon a judicial proceeding nor does it authorize the enforcement or carrying out of any judgment or decree or order of similar or analogous effect with regard to any property in which a designated national has an interest.
(d) If a judicial proceeding relates to property in which there exists the interest of any designated national other than a person who would not have been a designated national except for his relationship to an occupied area, such proceeding is authorized only if it is based upon a claim in which no person other than any of the following has had an interest since the “effective date”:
(1) A citizen of the United States;
(2) A corporation organized under the laws of the United States or any State, territory or possession thereof, or the District of Columbia;
(3) A natural person who is and has been since the “effective date” a resident of the United States and who has not been a specially designated national;
(4) A legal representative (whether or not appointed by a court of the United States) or successor in interest by inheritance, device, bequest, or operation of law, who falls within any of the categories specified in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section but only to the same extent that their principals or predecessors would be qualified by such paragraphs.

§ 515.505   Certain Cuban nationals unblocked.

(a) General license unblocking certain persons. The following persons are licensed as unblocked nationals, as that term is defined in § 515.307 of this part:
General license unblocking certain persons.
The following persons are licensed as unblocked nationals, as that term is defined in § 515.307 of this part:
(1) Any individual national of Cuba who:
(i) Has taken up residence in the United States; and
(ii) Is a United States citizen; is a lawful permanent resident alien of the United States; has applied to become a lawful permanent resident alien of the United States and has an adjustment of status application pending; or is lawfully present and intending to lawfully remain in the United States on a permanent basis; and
(iii) Is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337 of this part, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338 of this part.
(2) Any individual national of Cuba who has taken up permanent residence outside of Cuba, provided that the required documentation specified in paragraph (c) of this section is obtained and the individual is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338;
(3) Any entity that otherwise would be a national of Cuba solely because of the interest therein of one or more persons licensed in this paragraph (a) as an unblocked national;
(4) Any entity, office, or other sub-unit authorized pursuant to § 515.573; and
(5) Any individual authorized to establish domicile in Cuba pursuant to § 515.573(a)(4).
Note to § 515.505(
a
):
An individual unblocked pursuant to this paragraph does not become blocked again merely by leaving the United States or the country in which he or she has taken up permanent residence. An individual unblocked national remains unblocked unless and until the individual thereafter becomes domiciled in or a permanent resident of Cuba.
(b) General license unblocking blocked accounts. Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, including U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities and U.S. registered money transmitters, are authorized to unblock any blocked account, as defined in § 515.319, that had been previously blocked solely because of the interest therein of one or more persons licensed in paragraph (a) of this section as unblocked nationals.
General license unblocking blocked accounts.
Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, including U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities and U.S. registered money transmitters, are authorized to unblock any blocked account, as defined in § 515.319, that had been previously blocked solely because of the interest therein of one or more persons licensed in paragraph (a) of this section as unblocked nationals.
(c) Required documentation. In determining whether an individual national of Cuba qualifies as an unblocked national under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction must obtain evidence demonstrating that the individual satisfies the requirements of that paragraph. Such evidence may include copies of documents issued by government authorities demonstrating citizenship or lawful permanent residence in a third country. These could include, depending on the information provided in the document in question, a passport, voter registration card, permanent resident alien card, national identity card, or other similar documents. Where such documents are unavailable, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may also rely on evidence that the individual has been resident for the past two years without interruption in a single country outside of Cuba, or a sworn statement or other evidence that the individual does not intend to, or would not be welcome to, return to Cuba.
Required documentation.
In determining whether an individual national of Cuba qualifies as an unblocked national under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction must obtain evidence demonstrating that the individual satisfies the requirements of that paragraph. Such evidence may include copies of documents issued by government authorities demonstrating citizenship or lawful permanent residence in a third country. These could include, depending on the information provided in the document in question, a passport, voter registration card, permanent resident alien card, national identity card, or other similar documents. Where such documents are unavailable, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may also rely on evidence that the individual has been resident for the past two years without interruption in a single country outside of Cuba, or a sworn statement or other evidence that the individual does not intend to, or would not be welcome to, return to Cuba.
(d) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the term “lawfully present and intending to lawfully remain in the United States on a permanent basis” includes an individual with a pending application for asylum or who has been paroled into the United States under Cuban Parole or Cuban Medical designations. It does not include anyone present in the United States in a non-immigrant status.
Note to § 515.505:
See § 515.571 for the authorization of certain limited transactions incident to travel to, from, and within the United States by Cuban nationals who are present in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government.
[[80 FR 2292, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56919, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 13991, Mar. 16, 2016]]

§§ 515.506-515.507   [Reserved]


§ 515.508   Payments to blocked accounts in domestic banks.

(a) Any payment or transfer of credit to a blocked account in a domestic bank in the name of any designated national is hereby authorized providing such payment or transfer shall not be made from any blocked account if such payment or transfer represents, directly or indirectly, a transfer of the interest of a designated national to any other country or person.
(b) This section does not authorize:
(1) Any payment or transfer to any blocked account held in a name other than that of the designated national who is the ultimate beneficiary of such payment or transfer; or
(2) Any foreign exchange transaction including, but not by way of limitation, any transfer of credit, or payment of an obligation, expressed in terms of the currency of any foreign country.
(c) This section does not authorize any payment or transfer of credit comprising an integral part of a transaction which cannot be effected without the subsequent issuance of a further license.
(d) This section does not authorize the crediting of the proceeds of the sale of securities held in a blocked account or a subaccount thereof, or the income derived from such securities to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such securities were held.
(e) This section does not authorize any payment or transfer from a blocked account in a domestic bank to a blocked account held under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the blocked account from which the payment or transfer is made.
Note to § 515.508:
Please refer to § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
[[32 FR 10846, July 25, 1967, as amended at 58 FR 47645, Sept. 10, 1993; 62 FR 45106, Aug. 25, 1997]]

§ 515.509   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) Any banking institution within the United States is hereby authorized to:
(1) Debit any blocked account with such banking institution (or with another office within the United States of such banking institution) in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed to such banking institution by the owner of such blocked account.
(2) Make book entries against any foreign currency account maintained by it with a banking institution in a designated foreign country for the purpose of responding to debits to such account for normal service charges in connection therewith.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charge shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, account carrying charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photostats, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail insurance, stationery and supplies, check books, and other similar items.
normal service charge
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, account carrying charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photostats, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail insurance, stationery and supplies, check books, and other similar items.

§ 515.510   Payments to the United States, States and political subdivisions.

(a) The payment from any blocked account to the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof or to any State, territory, district, county, municipality or other political subdivision in the United States, of customs duties, taxes, and fees payable thereto by the owner of such blocked account is hereby authorized.
(b) This section also authorizes transactions incident to the payment of customs duties, taxes, and fees from blocked accounts, such as the levying of assessments, the creation and enforcement of liens, and the sale of blocked property in satisfaction of liens for customs duties, taxes, and fees.

§ 515.511   Transactions by certain business enterprises.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section any partnership, association, corporation or other organization which on the “effective date” was actually engaged in a commercial, banking or financial business within the United States and which is a national of a designated foreign country, is hereby authorized to engage in all transactions ordinarily incidental to the normal conduct of its business activities within the United States.
(b) This section does not authorize any transaction which would require a license if such organization were not a national of a designated foreign country.
(c) This section does not authorize any transaction by a specially designated national.
(d) Any organization engaging in business pursuant to this section shall not engage in any transaction, pursuant to this section or any other license or authorization contained in this part, which, directly or indirectly, substantially diminishes or imperils the assets of such organization or otherwise prejudicially affects the financial position of such organization.
(e) No dealings with regard to any account shall be evidence that any person having an interest therein is actually engaged in commercial, banking or financial business within the United States.

§ 515.512   Provision of certain legal services authorized.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of Cuba or a Cuban national is authorized, provided that receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized by or pursuant to paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to Cuba or a Cuban national, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property in which Cuba or a Cuban national has had an interest at any time on or since 12:01 a.m., Eastern Standard Time, July 8, 1963, is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
(d) Receipts of payment—(1) Legal services to or on behalf of certain blocked persons. All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, must be specifically licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to § 515.512(e), which authorizes certain payments from funds originating outside the United States.
Receipts of payment
—(1)
Legal services to or on behalf of certain blocked persons.
All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, must be specifically licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to § 515.512(e), which authorizes certain payments from funds originating outside the United States.
(2) Legal services to or on behalf of all others. All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of Cuba or a Cuban national, other than those described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, are authorized, except that nothing in this section authorizes the debiting of any blocked account or the transfer of any blocked property.
Legal services to or on behalf of all others.
All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of Cuba or a Cuban national, other than those described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, are authorized, except that nothing in this section authorizes the debiting of any blocked account or the transfer of any blocked property.
(e) Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States authorized. Receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 515.512(a) to or on behalf of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that:
Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States authorized.
Receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 515.512(a) to or on behalf of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that:
(1) The funds received by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction as payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction; or
(iii) Any person, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter other than part 515.
(2) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who receive payments in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who receive payments in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(i) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(ii) If applicable:
(A) The names of any persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services to or on behalf of Cuba or a Cuban national, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(B) A general description of the services provided; and
(C) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
Note 1 to § 515.512:
Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who receive payments in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to § 515.512(a) do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. This does not authorize the hiring of Cuban nationals. Additionally, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 515.512(a).
Note 2 to § 515.512:
See §§ 515.527 and 515.528 for general licenses authorizing fees due to attorneys in connection with certain intellectual property-related transactions. See § 515.588 for a general license authorizing the receipt of, and payment for, certain legal services from Cuba or a Cuban national.
[[80 FR 56919, Sept. 21, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 103642, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 515.513   Purchase and sale of certain securities.

(a) The bona fide purchase and sale of securities on a national securities exchange by banking institutions within the United States for the account, and pursuant to the authorization, of nationals of a designated foreign country and the making and receipt of payments, transfers of credit, and transfers of such securities which are necessary incidents of any such purchase or sale are hereby authorized provided the following terms and conditions are complied with:
(1) In the case of the purchase of securities, the securities purchased shall be held in an account in a banking institution within the United States in the name of the national whose account was debited to purchase such securities; and
(2) In the case of the sale of securities, the proceeds of the sale shall be credited to an account in the name of the national for whose account the sale was made and in the banking institution within the United States which held the securities for such national.
(b) This section does not authorize the crediting of the proceeds of the sale of securities held in a blocked account or a subaccount thereof, to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such securities were held.
(c) Securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of the United States or any State, territory, district, county, municipality, or other political subdivision thereof (including agencies and instrumentalities of the foregoing) need not be purchased or sold on a national securities exchange, but purchases or sales of such securities shall be made at market value and pursuant to all other terms and conditions prescribed in this section.

§ 515.514   Payment of dividends and interest on and redemption and collection of securities.

(a) The payment to, and receipt by, a banking institution within the United States of funds or other property representing dividends or interest on securities held by such banking institution in a blocked account is hereby authorized provided the funds or other property are credited to or deposited in a blocked account in such banking institution in the name of the national for whose account the securities were held. Notwithstanding § 515.202, this paragraph authorizes the foregoing transactions although such securities are registered or inscribed in the name of any designated national and although the national in whose name the securities are registered or inscribed may not be the owner of such blocked account.
(b) The payment to, and receipt by, a banking institution within the United States of funds payable in respect of securities (including coupons) presented by such banking institution to the proper paying agents within the United States for redemption or collection for the account and pursuant to the authorization of nationals of a designated country is hereby authorized provided the proceeds of the redemption or collection are credited to a blocked account in such banking institution in the name of the national for whose account the redemption or collection was made.
(c) The performance of such other acts, and the effecting of such other transactions, as may be necessarily incident to any of the foregoing, are also hereby authorized.
(d) This section does not authorize the crediting of the proceeds of the redemption or collection of securities (including coupons) held in a blocked account or a subaccount thereof, or the income derived from such securities to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such securities were held.
(e) This section does not authorize any issuer or other obligor, with respect to a security, who is a designated national, to make any payment, transfer or withdrawal.

§ 515.515   Transfers of securities to blocked accounts in domestic banks.

(a) Transactions ordinarily incident to the transfer of securities from a blocked account in the name of any person to a blocked account in the same name in a domestic bank are hereby authorized provided such securities shall not be transferred from any blocked account if such transfer represents, directly or indirectly, a transfer of the interest of a designated national to any other country or person.
(b) This section does not authorize the transfer of securities held in a blocked account or subaccount thereof to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such securities were held.
[[32 FR 10847, July 25, 1967]]

§ 515.516   Voting and soliciting of proxies on securities.

Notwithstanding § 515.202, the voting and the soliciting of proxies or other authorizations is authorized with respect to the voting of securities issued by a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, territory, or district thereof, in which a designated national has any interest.

§ 515.517   Access to safe deposit boxes under certain conditions.

(a) Access to any safe deposit box leased to a designated national or containing property in which any designated national has an interest, and the deposit therein or removal therefrom of any property is hereby authorized, provided the following terms and conditions are complied with:
(1) Access shall be permitted only in the presence of an authorized representative of the lessor of such box; and
(2) In the event that any property in which any designated national has any interest is to be removed from such box, access shall be permitted only in the presence of an authorized representative of a banking institution within the United States, which may be the lessor of such box, which shall receive such property into its custody immediately upon removal from such box and which shall hold the same in a blocked account under an appropriate designation indicating the interest therein of designated nationals.
(b) The terms and conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to access granted to a representative of the Office of Alien Property pursuant to any rule, regulation or order of such Office.

§ 515.518   [Reserved]


§ 515.519   Limited payments from accounts of United States citizens abroad.

(a) Payments and transfers of credit from blocked accounts for expenditures within the United States or the authorized trade territory of any citizens of the United States who are within any foreign country are hereby authorized provided the following terms and conditions are complied with:
(1) Such payments and transfers shall be made only from blocked accounts in the name, or in which the beneficial interest is held by, such citizen or his family; and
(2) The total of all such payments and transfers made under this section shall not exceed $1,000 in any one calendar month for any such citizen or his family.
(b) This section does not authorize any remittance to a designated foreign country or, any payment, transfer, or withdrawal which could not be effected without a license by a person within the United States who is not a national of a designated foreign country.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 49 FR 27144, July 2, 1984]]

§ 515.520   Payments from accounts of United States citizens in employ of United States in foreign countries and certain other persons.

(a) Banking institutions within the United States are hereby authorized to make all payments, transfers and withdrawals from accounts in the name of citizens of the United States while such citizens are within any foreign country in the course of their employment by the Government of the United States.
(b) Banking institutions within the United States are also hereby authorized to make all payments, transfers and withdrawals from accounts in the name of members of the armed forces of the United States and of citizens of the United States accompanying such armed forces in the course of their employment by any organization acting on behalf of the Government of the United States while such persons are within any foreign country.
(c) This section is deemed to apply to the accounts of members of the armed forces of the United States and of citizens of the United States accompanying such armed forces in the course of their employment by the Government of the United States or by any organization acting on its behalf even though they are captured or reported missing.

§ 515.521   U.S. assets of certain Cuban corporations.

(a) Specific licenses may be issued unblocking the net pro rata shares of individuals who are permanent residents of the United States or the authorized trade territory, and who are not specially designated nationals, in U.S.-located assets of corporations formed under the laws of Cuba, after deducting the total debt due creditors for claims that accrued prior to the effective date, in cases where all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The assets were owned by, or accrued to, the corporation before the effective date of the regulations;
(2) The corporation did not carry on substantial business in Cuba under the management or control of the applicant(s) after the effective date;
(3) In cases where the blocked assets purportedly have been nationalized by Cuba, compensation has not been paid to the applicant(s).
(b) Applications for specific licenses under this section must include all of the following information:
(1) A detailed description of the corporation, its by-laws, activities, distribution of shares, and its current status;
(2) Proof of the permanent residence of the applicant(s) in the United States or the authorized trade territory;
(3) A list of all officers, directors and shareholders of the corporation, giving the citizenship and the residence of each person as of the date of the application;
(4) A detailed description of all of the assets of the corporation, wherever located, including a statement of all known encumbrances or claims against them; and
(5) Detailed information regarding the status of all debts and other obligations of the corporation, specifying the citizenship and residence of each creditor on the effective date and on the date of the application.
[[50 FR 33720, Aug. 21, 1985. Redesignated at 64 FR 25813, May 13, 1999]]

§ 515.522   [Reserved]


§ 515.523   Transactions incident to the administration of decedents' estates.

All transactions incident to the administration and distribution of the assets of a blocked estate of a decedent are authorized. Such transactions include the appointment and qualification of a personal representative in the United States or Cuba, collection and preservation of assets by a personal representative and associated fees, payment of funeral expenses and expenses of the last illness, transfer of title, and distribution of assets pursuant to a valid testamentary disposition or intestate succession. All property distributed pursuant to this section is unblocked, provided that neither Cuba nor a Cuban national (other than the decedent or a person unblocked pursuant to § 515.505) has an interest in the property.
Note to § 515.523:
See § 515.570(f)(1) for a general license authorizing funds deposited in a blocked bank account in a banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, as a result of certain administration of decedents' estates to be remitted to a national of Cuba.
[[80 FR 56920, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.524   Payment from, and transactions in the administration of certain trusts and estates.

(a) Any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of the United States, or of any State, territory, possession, or district of the United States, or any private bank subject to supervision and examination under the banking laws of any State of the United States, acting as trustee of a trust created by gift, donation, or bequest and administered in the United States, in which one or more persons who are designated nationals have an interest, beneficial or otherwise, or are co-trustees, is hereby authorized to engage in the following transactions:
(1) Payments of distributive shares of principal or income to all persons legally entitled thereto.
(2) Other transactions arising in the administration of such trust which might be engaged in if no Cuban national were a beneficiary or co-trustee of such trust.
(b) This section does not authorize a trustee to engage in any other transaction at the request, or upon the instructions, of any beneficiary or co-trustee of such trust or other person who is a Cuban national.
Note to paragraph (
b
):
See § 515.523 for a general license authorizing transactions incident to the administration of decedents' estates. See § 515.570(f)(1) for a general license authorizing funds deposited in a blocked bank account in a banking institution as a result of certain administration of decedents' estates to be remitted to a national of Cuba.
(c) The application of this section to trusts is limited to trusts established by gift, donation, or bequest from individuals or entities to benefit specific heirs, charitable causes, and similar beneficiaries. This section does not apply to trusts established for business or commercial purposes, such as sinking funds established by an issuer of securities in order to secure payment of interest or principal due on such securities.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 49 FR 27144, July 2, 1984; 54 FR 5234, Feb. 2, 1989; 80 FR 56920, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.525   Certain transfers as a consequence of the existence or change of marital status authorized.

Any transfer of any dower, curtesy, community property, or other interest of any nature whatsoever, provided that such transfer arises solely as a consequence of the existence or change of marital status, is authorized.
[[80 FR 56920, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.526   Transactions involving blocked life insurance policies.

(a) The following transactions are hereby authorized:
(1) The payment of premiums and interest on policy loans with respect to any blocked life insurance policy;
(2) The issuance, servicing or transfer of any blocked life insurance policy in which the only blocked interest is that of one or more of the following:
(i) A member of the armed forces of the United States or a person accompanying such forces (including personnel of the American Red Cross, and similar organizations);
(ii) An officer or employee of the United States; or
(iii) A citizen of the United States resident in a designated foreign country; and
(3) The issuance, servicing or transfer of any blocked life insurance policy in which the only blocked interest (other than that of a person specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section) is that of a beneficiary.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize:
(1) Any payment to the insurer from any blocked account except a blocked account of the insured or beneficiary, or
(2) Any payment by the insurer to a national of a designated foreign country unless payment is made by deposit in a blocked account in a domestic bank in the name of the national who is the ultimate beneficiary thereof.
(c) The application, in accordance with the provisions of the policy or the established practice of the insurer of the dividends, cash surrender value, or loan value, of any blocked life insurance policy is also hereby authorized for the purpose of:
(1) Paying premiums;
(2) Paying policy loans and interest thereon;
(3) Establishing paid-up insurance; or
(4) Accumulating such dividends or values to the credit of the policy on the books of the insurer.
(d) As used in this section:
(1) The term blocked life insurance policy shall mean any life insurance policy or annuity contract, or contract supplementary thereto, in which there is a blocked interest.
blocked life insurance policy
shall mean any life insurance policy or annuity contract, or contract supplementary thereto, in which there is a blocked interest.
(2) Any interest of a national of a designated foreign country shall be deemed to be a “blocked interest.”
(3) The term servicing shall mean the following transactions with respect to any blocked life insurance policy:
servicing
shall mean the following transactions with respect to any blocked life insurance policy:
(i) The payment of premiums, the payment of loan interest, and the repayment of policy loans;
(ii) The effecting by a life insurance company or other insurer of loans to an insured;
(iii) The effecting on behalf of an insured or surrenders, conversions, modifications, and reinstatements; and
(iv) The exercise or election by an insured of nonforfeiture options, optional modes of settlement, optional disposition of dividends, and other policy options and privileges not involving payment by the insurer.
(4) The term transfer shall mean the change of beneficiary, or the assignment or pledge of the interest of an insured in any blocked life insurance policy subsequent to the issuance thereof.
transfer
shall mean the change of beneficiary, or the assignment or pledge of the interest of an insured in any blocked life insurance policy subsequent to the issuance thereof.
(e) This section does not authorize any transaction with respect to any blocked life insurance policy issued by a life insurance company or other insurer which is a national of a designated foreign country or which is not doing business or effecting insurance in the United States.

§ 515.527   Certain transactions with respect to United States intellectual property.

(a)(1) Transactions related to the registration and renewal in the United States Patent and Trademark Office or the United States Copyright Office of patents, trademarks, and copyrights in which the Government of Cuba or a Cuban national has an interest are authorized.
(2) No transaction or payment is authorized or approved pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to a mark, trade name, or commercial name that is the same as or substantially similar to a mark, trade name, or commercial name that was used in connection with a business or assets that were confiscated, as that term is defined in § 515.336, unless the original owner of the mark, trade name, or commercial name, or the bona fide successor-in-interest has expressly consented.
(b) This section authorizes the payment from blocked accounts or otherwise of fees currently due to the United States Government in connection with any transaction authorized in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) This section further authorizes the payment from blocked accounts or otherwise of the reasonable and customary fees and charges currently due to attorneys or representatives within the United States in connection with the transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section.
[[60 FR 54196, Oct. 20, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 25813, May 13, 1999]]

§ 515.528   Certain transactions with respect to blocked foreign intellectual property.

(a) The following transactions by any person who is not a designated national are hereby authorized:
(1) The filing and prosecution of any application for a blocked foreign patent, trademark or copyright, or for the renewal thereof;
(2) The receipt of any blocked foreign patent, trademark or copyright;
(3) The filing and prosecution of opposition or infringement proceedings with respect to any blocked foreign patent, trademark, or copyright, and the prosecution of a defense to any such proceedings;
(4) The payment of fees currently due to the government of any foreign country, either directly or through an attorney or representative, in connection with any of the transactions authorized by paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section or for the maintenance of any blocked foreign patent, trademark or copyright; and
(5) The payment of reasonable and customary fees currently due to attorneys or representatives in any foreign country incurred in connection with any of the transactions authorized by paragraphs (a) (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section.
(b) Payments effected pursuant to the terms of paragraphs (a) (4) and (5) of this section may not be made from any blocked account.
(c) As used in this section the term blocked foreign patent, trademark, or copyright shall mean any patent, petty patent, design patent, trademark or copyright issued by any foreign country in which a designated foreign country or national thereof has an interest, including any patent, petty patent, design patent, trademark, or copyright issued by a designated foreign country.
blocked foreign patent, trademark, or copyright
shall mean any patent, petty patent, design patent, trademark or copyright issued by any foreign country in which a designated foreign country or national thereof has an interest, including any patent, petty patent, design patent, trademark, or copyright issued by a designated foreign country.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 60 FR 54196, Oct. 20, 1995]]

§ 515.529   Powers of attorney.

(a) No power of attorney, whether granted before or after the “effective date” shall be invalid by reason of any of the provisions of this part with respect to any transaction licensed by or pursuant to the provisions of this part.
(b) This section does not authorize any transaction pursuant to a power of attorney if such transaction is prohibited by § 515.201 and is not otherwise licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part.
(c) This section does not authorize the creation of any power of attorney in favor of any person outside of the United States or the exportation from the United States of any power of attorney.

§ 515.530   Exportation of powers of attorney or instructions relating to certain types of transactions.

(a) The exportation to any foreign country of powers of attorney or other instruments executed or issued by any person within the United States who is not a national of a designated foreign country, which are limited to authorizations or instructions to effect transactions incident to the following, are hereby authorized upon the condition prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The representation of the interest of such person in a decedent's estate which is being administered in a designated foreign country and the collection of the distributive share of such person in such estate;
(2) The maintenance, preservation, supervision or management of any property located in a designated foreign country in which such person has an interest; and
(3) The conveyance, transfer, release, sale or other disposition of any property specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or any real estate or tangible personal property if the value thereof does not exceed the sum of $5,000 or its equivalent in foreign currency.
(b) No instrument which authorizes the conveyance, transfer, release, sale or other disposition of any property may be exported under this section unless it contains an express stipulation that such authority may not be exercised if the value of such property exceeds the sum of $5,000 or the equivalent thereof in foreign currency.
(c) As used in this section, the term tangible personal property shall not include cash, bullion, deposits, credits, securities, patents, trademarks, or copyrights.
tangible personal property
shall not include cash, bullion, deposits, credits, securities, patents, trademarks, or copyrights.
(d) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963, as amended at 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017]]

§ 515.532   Completion of certain securities transactions.

(a) Banking institutions within the United States are hereby authorized to complete, on or before July 12, 1963 purchases and sales made prior to the “effective date” of securities purchased or sold for the account of a designated foreign country or any designated national thereof provided the following terms and conditions are complied with, respectively:
(1) The proceeds of such sale are credited to a blocked account in a banking institution in the name of the person for whose account the sale was made; and
(2) The securities so purchased are held in a blocked account in a banking institution in the name of the person for whose account the purchase was made.
(b) This section does not authorize the crediting of the proceeds of the sale of securities held in a blocked account or a subaccount thereof, to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such securities were held.

§ 515.533   Exportations from the United States to Cuba; reexportations to Cuba; importation and servicing or repair of certain items previously exported or reexported to Cuba.

(a) All transactions ordinarily incident to the exportation of items from the United States, or the reexportation of items from a third country, to any person within Cuba are authorized, provided that:
(1) The exportation or reexportation is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce under the provisions of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4601-4623) (see the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774);
(2) The transaction is not a transaction between a U.S.-owned or -controlled firm in a third country and Cuba for the exportation to Cuba of commodities produced in a country other than the United States or Cuba;
(3) The transaction is not financed from any blocked account; and
(4) In the case of agricultural commodities, as that term is defined in 15 CFR part 772, only the following payment and financing terms are used:
(i) Payment of cash in advance. For the purposes of this section, the term “payment of cash in advance” shall mean payment before the transfer of title to, and control of, the exported items to the Cuban purchaser; or
(ii) Financing by a banking institution located in a third country provided the banking institution is not a designated national, a U.S. citizen, a U.S. permanent resident alien, or an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including any foreign branch of such an entity). Such financing may be confirmed or advised by a U.S. banking institution.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
The transactions authorized by this paragraph include all transactions that are directly incident to the shipping of specific exports or reexports (e.g., insurance and transportation of the exports to Cuba). Transactions that are not tied to specific exports or reexports, such as transactions involving future (non-specific) shipments, must be separately licensed by OFAC. For the waiver of the prohibitions on entry into U.S. ports contained in § 515.207 for vessels transporting shipments of items between the United States and Cuba pursuant to this section, see § 515.550.
e.g.,
insurance and transportation of the exports to Cuba). Transactions that are not tied to specific exports or reexports, such as transactions involving future (non-specific) shipments, must be separately licensed by OFAC. For the waiver of the prohibitions on entry into U.S. ports contained in § 515.207 for vessels transporting shipments of items between the United States and Cuba pursuant to this section, see § 515.550.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
The limitation in paragraph (a)(4) applies only to payment and financing terms for exports or reexports of agricultural commodities and is required by the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000, 22 U.S.C. 7207(b)(1). For other authorized exports and reexports, paragraph (a) does not restrict payment and financing terms. See § 515.584 for an authorization for banking institutions to provide financing for authorized exports and reexports of items other than agricultural commodities.
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
Transactions ordinarily incident to exportation from the United States authorized by this paragraph include the importation into the United States of items from a third country for exportation to Cuba pursuant to a license or other authorization by the Department of Commerce.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 515.534 for a general license authorizing certain contingent contracts, including contingent contracts for the sale of items that may be exported from the United States to Cuba or reexported from a third country to Cuba consistent with the export licensing policy of the Department of Commerce, where performance of such contingent contracts is expressly made contingent on prior authorization by the Department of Commerce.
(b) Importation of certain items previously exported to Cuba; servicing and repair of such items. All transactions ordinarily incident to the importation into the United States or a third country of items previously exported from the United States to Cuba or exported or reexported from a third country to Cuba, and the servicing and repair of such items, are authorized, provided that:
Importation of certain items previously exported to Cuba; servicing and repair of such items.
All transactions ordinarily incident to the importation into the United States or a third country of items previously exported from the United States to Cuba or exported or reexported from a third country to Cuba, and the servicing and repair of such items, are authorized, provided that:
(1) The items previously were exported or reexported to Cuba pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or § 515.559; and
(2) The items are being imported into the United States or a third country either:
(i) In order to service or repair them before they are exported or reexported back to Cuba, or
(ii) To return them to the United States or a third country.
Note to paragraph (
b
):
This paragraph does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of any item to Cuba. The exportation or reexportation of serviced, repaired, or replacement items to Cuba must be separately authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or § 515.559, in addition to any Department of Commerce authorization that may be required.
(c) General license for travel-related transactions incident to exportation or reexportation of certain items. (1) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to the conduct of market research, commercial marketing, sales or contract negotiation, accompanied delivery, installation, leasing, servicing, or repair in Cuba of items consistent with the export or reexport licensing policy of the Department of Commerce are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
General license for travel-related transactions incident to exportation or reexportation of certain items.
(1) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to the conduct of market research, commercial marketing, sales or contract negotiation, accompanied delivery, installation, leasing, servicing, or repair in Cuba of items consistent with the export or reexport licensing policy of the Department of Commerce are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
(2) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to the facilitation of the temporary sojourn of aircraft and vessels as authorized by 15 CFR 740.15 (License Exception Aircraft, Vessels and Spacecraft) or pursuant to other authorization by the Department of Commerce for authorized travel between the United States and Cuba, including travel-related transactions by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who are required for normal operation and service aboard a vessel or aircraft, as well as persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who are required to provide services to a vessel in port or aircraft on the ground, are authorized, provided that:
(i) Such travel-related transactions are limited to the duration and scope of their duties in relation to the particular authorized temporary sojourn; and
(ii) The aircraft or vessel must be transporting individuals whose travel between the United States and Cuba is authorized pursuant to any section of this part other than paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (c) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (c) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(e) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to the exportation and reexportation of items to Cuba when such transactions do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (c) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to the exportation and reexportation of items to Cuba when such transactions do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (c) of this section.
[[81 FR 71374, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60070, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.534   Negotiation of, and entry into, contingent contracts relating to transactions prohibited by this part.

(a) Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to enter into, and to engage in all transactions ordinarily incident to the negotiation of and entry into, contingent contracts for transactions that are prohibited by this part, provided that:
(1) The performance of any such contingent contract is made expressly contingent on the prior authorization of the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part or authorization no longer being required; and
(2) The performance of any such contingent contract that is subject to licensing requirements of another Federal agency is expressly made contingent upon the prior authorization of that agency or the removal of those licensing requirements.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term “contingent contracts” includes executory contracts, executory pro forma invoices, agreements in principle, executory offers capable of acceptance such as bids or proposals in response to public tenders, binding memoranda of understanding, or any other similar agreement.
Note to § 515.534:
This section does not authorize transactions related to travel to, from, or within Cuba. See § 515.533(c) for a general license authorizing travel-related and other transactions incident to the negotiation of contracts for the exportation or reexportation of certain items to Cuba, and § 515.564(a)(2) for a general license authorizing travel-related and other transactions incident to attending or organizing professional meetings in Cuba, which include professional meetings relating to the negotiation of contingent contracts authorized by this section.
(c) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
[[81 FR 71375, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60070, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35089, June 9, 2022]]

§ 515.535   Exchange of certain securities.

(a) Subject to the limitations and conditions of paragraph (b) of this section and notwithstanding § 515.202, any banking institution within the United States is authorized to engage in the following transactions with respect to securities listed on a national securities exchange, including the withdrawal of such securities from blocked accounts:
(1) Exchange of certificates necessitated by reason of changes in corporate name, par value or capitalization,
(2) Exchanges of temporary for permanent certificates,
(3) Exchanges or deposits under plans of reorganization,
(4) Exchanges under refunding plans, or
(5) Exchanges pursuant to conversion privileges accruing to securities held.
(b) This section does not authorize the following transactions:
(1) Any exchange of securities unless the new securities and other proceeds, if any, received are deposited in the blocked account in which the original securities were held immediately prior to the exchange.
(2) Any exchange of securities registered in the name of any designated national, unless the new securities received are registered in the same name in which the securities exchanged were registered prior to the exchange.
(3) Any exchange of securities issued by a person engaged in the business of offering, buying, selling, or otherwise dealing, or trading in securities, or evidences thereof, issued by another person.
(4) Any transaction with respect to any security by an issuer or other obligor who is a designated national.

§ 515.536   Certain transactions with respect to merchandise affected by § 515.204.

(a) The purchase outside the United States for importation into the United States of nickel-bearing materials presumptively subject to § 515.204 and the importation of such merchandise into the United States are authorized if there is presented to the collector of customs in connection with such importation the original of an appropriate certificate of origin as defined in paragraph (b) of this section and provided that the merchandise was shipped to the United States directly, or on a through bill of lading, from the country issuing the appropriate certificate of origin.
(b) A certificate of origin is appropriate for the purposes of this section only if
(1) It is a certificate of origin the availability of which for Cuban Assets Control purposes has been announced in the Federal Register by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; and
Federal Register
by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; and
(2) It bears a statement by the issuing agency referring to the Cuban Assets Control Regulations or stating that the certificate has been issued under procedures agreed upon with the U.S. Government.
[[30 FR 15371, Dec. 14, 1965, as amended at 47 FR 4254, Jan. 29, 1982; 50 FR 5753, Feb. 12, 1985; 54 FR 5234, Feb. 2, 1989; 81 FR 71375, Oct. 17, 2016]]

§ 515.540   [Reserved]


§ 515.542   Mail and telecommunications-related transactions.

(a) All transactions, including payments, incident to the receipt or transmission of mail and parcels between the United States and Cuba are authorized, provided that the importation or exportation of such mail and parcels is exempt from or authorized pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions, including payments, incident to the provision of telecommunications services related to the transmission or the receipt of telecommunications involving Cuba, including the entry into and performance under roaming service agreements with telecommunications services providers in Cuba, by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized. This paragraph does not authorize any transactions addressed in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, nor does it authorize the entry into or performance of a contract with or for the benefit of any particular individual in Cuba.
(c) All persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to enter into, and make payments under, contracts with telecommunications service providers, or particular individuals in Cuba, for telecommunications services provided to particular individuals in Cuba, provided that such individuals in Cuba are not prohibited officials of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337 of this part, or prohibited members of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338 of this part. The authorization in this paragraph includes payment for activation, installation, usage (monthly, pre-paid, intermittent, or other), roaming, maintenance, and termination fees.
(d) General license for telecommunications facilities. Transactions, including payments, incident to the establishment of facilities, including fiber-optic cable and satellite facilities, to provide telecommunications services linking the United States or third countries and Cuba, including facilities to provide telecommunications services in Cuba, are authorized.
General license for telecommunications facilities.
Transactions, including payments, incident to the establishment of facilities, including fiber-optic cable and satellite facilities, to provide telecommunications services linking the United States or third countries and Cuba, including facilities to provide telecommunications services in Cuba, are authorized.
(e) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to enter into licensing agreements related to services authorized by paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, and to market such services.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) Any entity subject to U.S. jurisdiction relying on paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section shall notify OFAC in writing within 30 days after commencing or ceasing to offer such services, as applicable, and shall furnish by January 15 and July 15 of each year semiannual reports providing the total amount of all payments made to Cuba or a third country related to any of the services authorized by this section during the prior six months. These notifications and reports must be captioned “Section 515.542 Notification” or “Section 515.542 Report” and emailed to OFACReport@treasury.gov. The reporting requirement in this paragraph (g) applies only to the non-banking institution entity subject to U.S. jurisdiction relying upon paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section to provide telecommunications services.
OFACReport@treasury.gov
. The reporting requirement in this paragraph (g) applies only to the non-banking institution entity subject to U.S. jurisdiction relying upon paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section to provide telecommunications services.
(h) For purposes of this section, the term “telecommunications services” includes data, telephone, telegraph, internet connectivity, radio, television, news wire feeds, and similar services, regardless of the medium of transmission, including transmissions by satellite.
(i) Nothing in this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any items to Cuba. For the rules related to authorization of exports and reexports to Cuba, see §§ 515.533 and 515.559.
(j) Nothing in this section authorizes transactions related to travel to, from, or within Cuba.
Note 1 to § 515.542:
For an authorization of travel-related transactions that are directly incident to the conduct of market research, commercial marketing, sales or contract negotiation, accompanied delivery, installation, leasing, servicing, or repair in Cuba of items consistent with the export or reexport policy of the Department of Commerce, see § 515.533(c). For an authorization of travel-related transactions that are directly incident to participation in professional meetings, including where such meetings relate to telecommunications services or other activities authorized by paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, see § 515.564(a).
Note 2 to § 515.542:
For general licenses authorizing physical and business presence in Cuba for certain persons, see § 515.573. An authorization related to business presence was previously included in this section. For an authorization of certain internet-related services, see § 515.578.
[[80 FR 2293, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56921, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 13991, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71376, Oct. 17, 2016; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35089, June 9, 2022; 89 FR 46324, May 29, 2024]]

§ 515.543   Proof of origin.

Specific licenses for importation of goods of Cuban origin are generally not issued unless the applicant submits satisfactory documentary proof of the location of the goods outside Cuba prior to July 8, 1963 and of the absence of any Cuban interest in the goods at all times on or since that date. Since the type of document which would constitute satisfactory proof varies depending upon the facts of the particular case, it is not possible to state in advance the type of documents required. However, it has been found that affidavits, statements, invoices, and other documents prepared by manufacturers, processors, sellers or shippers cannot be relied on and are therefore not by themselves accepted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control as satisfactory proof of origin. Independent corroborating documentary evidence, such as insurance documents, bills of lading, etc., may be accepted as satisfactory proof.
[[39 FR 25317, July 10, 1974]]

§ 515.544   Certain gifts sent to the United States.

The importation into the United States of merchandise from Cuba or Cuban-origin merchandise from a third country intended as gifts is authorized, provided that the value of the merchandise is not more than $100; the merchandise is of a type and in quantities normally given as gifts between individuals; the merchandise is sent and not carried by a traveler (including as accompanied or unaccompanied baggage); and the merchandise is not alcohol or tobacco products.
Note to § 515.544:
See § 515.533 for a general license authorizing transactions ordinarily incident to exports of items from the United States that are licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce, which may include gifts sent to Cuba.
[[80 FR 56921, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.545   Transactions related to information and informational materials.

(a) Transactions relating to the creation, dissemination, artistic or other substantive alteration, or enhancement of informational materials are authorized, including employment of Cuban nationals and remittance of royalties or other payments in connection with such transactions. This section authorizes marketing related to the dissemination of such informational materials but does not authorize other marketing or business consulting services.
(b) General license. (1) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to the exportation, importation, or transmission of information or informational materials as defined in § 515.332 are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
General license.
(1) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to the exportation, importation, or transmission of information or informational materials as defined in § 515.332 are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
(2) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to professional media or artistic productions of information or informational materials for exportation, importation, or transmission, including the filming or production of media programs (such as movies and television programs), the recording of music, and the creation of artworks in Cuba, are authorized, provided that the traveler is regularly employed in or has demonstrated professional experience in a field relevant to such professional media or artistic productions, and that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
(c) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
(d) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (b) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (b) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(e) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to information and informational materials that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (b) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to information and informational materials that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (b) of this section.
Note 1 to § 515.545.
With respect to transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of manuscripts, books, journals and newspapers, see § 515.577.
Note 2 to § 515.545:
See § 515.332(a)(2) for clarification as to the types of artworks that are considered to be informational materials.
[[54 FR 5234, Feb. 2, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 39257, Aug. 2, 1995; 64 FR 25813, May 13, 1999; 69 FR 75469, Dec. 17, 2004; 74 FR 46006, Sept. 8, 2009; 80 FR 2294, Jan. 16, 2015; 81 FR 4585, Jan. 27, 2016; 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.546   Accounts of Cuban sole proprietorships.

Specific licenses are issued unblocking sole proprietorships established under the laws of Cuba if the proprietor has emigrated from Cuba and established residence in the United States or a country in the authorized trade territory.
[[39 FR 25319, July 10, 1974. Redesignated at 64 FR 25813, May 13, 1999]]

§ 515.547   Certain transactions related to medical research and Cuban-origin pharmaceuticals; research samples.

(a) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to engage in all transactions incident to joint medical research projects with Cuban nationals.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
The export or reexport to Cuba of goods (including software) or technology subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) may require separate authorization from the Department of Commerce.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
This paragraph does not authorize transactions related to travel to, from, or within Cuba, nor does it authorize transactions related to travel to, from, or within the United States by Cuban nationals. See § 515.564(a) for a general license authorizing travel-related and other transactions incident to professional research and professional meetings in Cuba. See § 515.571 for a general license authorizing transactions incident to travel to, from, and within the United States by certain Cuban nationals.
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
This paragraph also does not authorize persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction to establish a business or physical presence in Cuba, to hire Cuban nationals, or to engage in any transactions prohibited by § 515.208.
(b) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to engage in all transactions incident to obtaining approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of Cuban-origin pharmaceuticals, including discovery and development, pre-clinical research, clinical research, regulatory review, regulatory approval and licensing, regulatory post-market activities, and the importation into the United States of Cuban-origin pharmaceuticals.
(c) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to engage in all transactions incident to the marketing, sale, or other distribution in the United States of FDA-approved Cuban-origin pharmaceuticals, including the importation into the United States of Cuban-origin pharmaceuticals.
(d)(1) Opening and maintaining bank accounts at Cuban financial institutions to engage in authorized transactions. The opening and maintenance of accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, at a financial institution in Cuba, is authorized provided that such accounts are used only for transactions authorized pursuant to this section.
Opening and maintaining bank accounts at Cuban financial institutions to engage in authorized transactions.
The opening and maintenance of accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, at a financial institution in Cuba, is authorized provided that such accounts are used only for transactions authorized pursuant to this section.
(2) Closing bank accounts. The closing of an account opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is authorized, provided that any transfer of funds may only be effected by wire transfer to an account maintained at a depository institution, as defined in § 515.333, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Closing bank accounts.
The closing of an account opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is authorized, provided that any transfer of funds may only be effected by wire transfer to an account maintained at a depository institution, as defined in § 515.333, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
(e) Specific licenses. (1) To the extent not authorized by paragraph (b) of this section, specific licenses may be issued for the importation of Cuban-origin commodities for bona-fide research purposes in sample quantities only.
Specific licenses.
(1) To the extent not authorized by paragraph (b) of this section, specific licenses may be issued for the importation of Cuban-origin commodities for bona-fide research purposes in sample quantities only.
(2) Specific licenses may be issued for transactions related to medical research or pharmaceutical products not authorized by paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
Note to § 515.547:
Transactions authorized by this section may require separate authorizations or approvals by the FDA or other Federal agencies.
[[81 FR 71376, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35089, June 9, 2022]]

§ 515.548   Overflight payments, emergency landings, and air ambulance services authorized.

(a) The receipt of, and payment of charges for, services rendered by Cuba or a Cuban national in connection with overflights of Cuba or emergency landings in Cuba by aircraft registered in the United States or owned or controlled by, or chartered to, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized.
(b) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to provide air ambulance and related medical services, including medical evacuation from Cuba, for individual travelers in Cuba, regardless of nationality or the purpose of the individual's travel to Cuba.
Note to paragraph (
b
):
Persons providing air ambulance services authorized by paragraph (b) are authorized to carry persons who are close relatives, as defined in § 515.539, of the subject of the evacuation.
[[80 FR 56921, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.549   Bank accounts and other property of non-Cuban decedents in Cuba on or after July 8, 1963.

Specific licenses may be issued authorizing the administration of the estates of non-Cuban decedents who died in Cuba on or after July 8, 1963, provided that any distribution to a blocked national of Cuba is made by deposit in a blocked account in a domestic bank in the name of the blocked national.
[[80 FR 2294, Jan. 16, 2015]]

§ 515.550   Certain vessel transactions authorized.

(a) Unless a vessel is otherwise engaging or has otherwise engaged in transactions that would prohibit entry pursuant to § 515.207, § 515.207 shall not apply to a vessel that is:
(1) Engaging or has engaged in trade with Cuba authorized pursuant to this part;
Note to paragraph (
a
)(1):
The authorization in this paragraph includes, for example, trade with Cuba authorized pursuant to § 515.533, § 515.559, or § 515.582, or by specific license.
(2) Engaging or has engaged in trade with Cuba that is exempt from the prohibitions of this part (see § 515.206);
(3) Engaging or has engaged in the exportation or reexportation to Cuba from a third country of agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices that, were they subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) (EAR), would be designated as EAR99;
(4) A foreign vessel that has entered a port or place in Cuba while carrying students, faculty, and staff that are authorized to travel to Cuba pursuant to § 515.565(a); or
(5) Carrying or has carried persons between the United States and Cuba or within Cuba pursuant to the authorization in § 515.572(a)(2) or, in the case of a vessel used solely for personal travel (and not transporting passengers), pursuant to a license or other authorization issued by the Department of Commerce for the exportation or reexportation of the vessel to Cuba.
(b) Unless a vessel is otherwise engaging or has otherwise engaged in transactions that would prohibit entry pursuant to § 515.207, § 515.207(a) shall not apply to a foreign vessel that has engaged in the exportation to Cuba from a third country only of items that, were they subject to the EAR, would be designated as EAR99 or would be controlled on the Commerce Control List only for anti-terrorism reasons.
[[81 FR 71376, Oct. 17, 2016]]

§ 515.551   Joint bank accounts.

(a) Specific licenses are issued unblocking a portion of or all of a joint bank account blocked by reason of the fact that one or more of the persons in whose names the account is held is a blocked national, where a non-blocked applicant claims beneficial ownership, as follows:
(1) Joint bank account, without survivorship provisions. Specific licenses are issued unblocking only that amount with respect to which the applicant is able to prove beneficial ownership by documentary evidence independent of his assertions of interest.
Joint bank account, without survivorship provisions.
Specific licenses are issued unblocking only that amount with respect to which the applicant is able to prove beneficial ownership by documentary evidence independent of his assertions of interest.
(2) Joint bank account, with survivorship provisions. Specific licenses are issued unblocking an amount equivalent to that portion of the total amount to which the applicant would be entitled if the total were divided evenly among the persons in whose names the account is held (e.g. 50 percent where there are two names; 33
1/3 percent where there are three names). Such licenses generally are issued on the basis of applicant's assertions of beneficial ownership interest without the requirement of independent evidence.
Joint bank account, with survivorship provisions.
Specific licenses are issued unblocking an amount equivalent to that portion of the total amount to which the applicant would be entitled if the total were divided evenly among the persons in whose names the account is held (e.g. 50 percent where there are two names; 33
1/3
percent where there are three names). Such licenses generally are issued on the basis of applicant's assertions of beneficial ownership interest without the requirement of independent evidence.
(3) Joint bank account in the names of a husband and wife, with survivorship provision. Specific licenses are issued unblocking portions of such accounts blocked by reason of the residence of one spouse in Cuba in favor of the non-blocked spouse under the policy stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. However, if 50 percent of the account has been unblocked under that policy, and the spouse who is the blocked Cuban national subsequently dies, the surviving spouse may be entitled to a license unblocking the remainder of the assets under § 515.522.
Joint bank account in the names of a husband and wife, with survivorship provision.
Specific licenses are issued unblocking portions of such accounts blocked by reason of the residence of one spouse in Cuba in favor of the non-blocked spouse under the policy stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. However, if 50 percent of the account has been unblocked under that policy, and the spouse who is the blocked Cuban national subsequently dies, the surviving spouse may be entitled to a license unblocking the remainder of the assets under § 515.522.
(b) [Reserved]
[[39 FR 25318, July 10, 1974, as amended at 49 FR 27145, July 2, 1984; 54 FR 5234, Feb. 2, 1989; 64 FR 25813, May 13, 1999]]

§ 515.552   Proceeds of insurance policies.

(a) Specific licenses are issued authorizing payment of the proceeds of blocked life insurance policies issued on the life of a Cuban national who died in Cuba after July 8, 1963, to certain beneficiaries licensed as unblocked nationals pursuant to § 515.505, as follows:
(1) The applicant is a permanent resident of the United States or the authorized trade territory and is not a specially designated national; and
(2) No interest on the part of a designated national not licensed as an unblocked national exists in that portion of the funds to which the applicant is entitled.
(b) Applications for specific licenses under this section must include all of the following information:
(1) Proof of permanent residence in the United States or the authorized trade territory, to be established by the submission of documentation issued by relevant government authorities that must include at least two of the following documents:
(i) Passport;
(ii) Voter registration card;
(iii) Permanent resident alien card; or
(iv) National identity card.
Other documents tending to show residency, such as income tax returns, may also be submitted in support of government documentation, but will not suffice in and of themselves;
(2) Proof of entitlement under the insurance policy to be established by a copy of the policy and an affidavit from an appropriate officer of a recognized insurance company acknowledging the legitimacy of the beneficiary's claim and the amount of the payment; and
(c) Any document provided pursuant to this section that is not written in the English language must be accompanied by a translation into English, as well as a certification by the translator that he is not an interested party to the proceeding, is qualified to make the translation, and has made an accurate translation of the document in question.
[[54 FR 5234, Feb. 2, 1989]]

§ 515.553   Bank accounts of official representatives in Cuba of foreign governments.

Specific licenses are issued authorizing payments from accounts of official representatives in Cuba of foreign governments for transactions which are not inconsistent with the purposes of any of the regulations in this chapter.
[[39 FR 25319, July 10, 1974]]

§ 515.554   Transfers of abandoned property under State laws.

(a) Except as stated in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, specific licenses are not issued authorizing the transfer of blocked property to State agencies under State laws governing abandoned property.
(b) Specific licenses are issued authorizing the transfer of blocked property, pursuant to the laws of the State governing abandoned property, to the appropriate State agency: Provided, That the State's laws are custodial in nature, i.e., there is no permanent transfer of beneficial interest to the State. Licenses require the property to be held by the State in accounts which are identified as blocked under the regulations. A separate index of these blocked assets is required to be maintained by the State agency. The requirements of this section for identification and separate indexing of blocked assets apply to all blocked assets held by State agencies and any licenses issued prior to the effective date of this section hereby are amended by the incorporation of such requirements.
Provided,
That the State's laws are custodial in nature, i.e., there is no permanent transfer of beneficial interest to the State. Licenses require the property to be held by the State in accounts which are identified as blocked under the regulations. A separate index of these blocked assets is required to be maintained by the State agency. The requirements of this section for identification and separate indexing of blocked assets apply to all blocked assets held by State agencies and any licenses issued prior to the effective date of this section hereby are amended by the incorporation of such requirements.
(c) To be eligible for a specific license under this section, the state agency must demonstrate that it has the statutory authority under appropriate state law to comply with the requirements of § 515.205. Such a showing shall include an opinion of the State Attorney General that such statutory authority exists.
[[44 FR 11771, Mar. 2, 1979]]

§ 515.555   Assets of Cuban firms wholly or substantially owned by U.S. citizens.

(a) Specific licenses are issued to applicants requesting the unblocking of their stock in Cuban corporations if:
(1) The corporation was wholly or substantially owned by United States citizens on July 8, 1963;
(2) The assets are in the United States and either;
(3) The applicant is a stockholder who was a United States citizen on July 8, 1963 and owned the stock interests on that date; or,
(4) The applicant is a non-blocked person who acquired such stock interest after July 8, 1963 from a person specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(b) The issuance of licenses is conditioned on the applicant's furnishing the following information:
(1) Detailed information as to the status of all debts and other obligations of the Cuban corporation, specifying the citizenship and residence of each creditor as of July 8, 1963, and as of the date of filing of the application;
(2) Current status of the Cuban corporation, e.g., liquidated, nationalized, inoperative, etc.;
(3) A detailed description of all the corporation's assets, wherever located;
(4) A list of all officers, directors, and stockholders giving the citizenship and the residence of each such person as of July 8, 1963; and,
(5) Satisfactory proof that such stock was owned by U.S. citizens as of July 8, 1963. Such proof may consist of sworn statements by the persons in question attesting to their citizenship. The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to require additional proof of citizenship.
[[39 FR 25319, July 10, 1974]]

§ 515.556   [Reserved]


§ 515.557   Accounts of Cuban partnerships.

Specific licenses are issued unblocking partnerships established under the laws of Cuba as follows:
(a) Where all of the general partners and limited partners, if any, have emigrated from Cuba and have established residence in the United States or in a country in the authorized trade territory, specific licenses are issued unblocking the assets of the partnership after deducting the total debt due creditors wherever located.
(b) Where one or more partners, whether general or limited, is still in Cuba (or elsewhere but still blocked), specific licenses are issued unblocking only the net pro-rata shares of those partners who are resident in the United States or in a country in the authorized trade territory after deducting the total debt due creditors wherever located.
(c) The issuance of licenses is conditioned on the applicant's furnishing the following information:
(1) Detailed information as to the status of all debts and other obligations of the blocked partnership, specifying the citizenship and residence of each creditor as of July 8, 1963, and as of the date of the application;
(2) Current status of the Cuban partnership, e.g., liquidated, nationalized, inoperative, etc.;
(3) A detailed description of all the partnership's assets, wherever located; and,
(4) A list of all partners, indicating whether they are general, limited, etc. and giving their citizenship and residence as of July 8, 1963, and as of the date of filing of the application.
[[39 FR 25319, July 10, 1974]]

§ 515.558   Bunkering of Cuban vessels and fueling of Cuban aircraft by American-owned or controlled foreign firms.

Foreign firms owned or controlled by United States persons are authorized to engage in transactions ordinarily incident to the bunkering of vessels and to the fueling of aircraft owned or controlled by, or chartered to, Cuba or nationals thereof.
(50 U.S.C. App. 5(b); 22 U.S.C. 2370(a); E. O. 9193, 3 CFR 1943 Cum. Supp.; Treas. Dept. Order No. 128, 32 FR 3472)
[[42 FR 58518, Nov. 10, 1977; 43 FR 19852, May 9, 1978. Redesignated at 64 FR 25813, May 13, 1999]]

§ 515.559   Certain export and import transactions by U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign firms.

(a) Effective October 23, 1992, no specific licenses will be issued pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section for transactions between U.S.-owned or controlled firms in third countries and Cuba for the exportation to Cuba of commodities produced in the authorized trade zone or for the importation of goods of Cuban origin into countries in the authorized trade zone, unless, in addition to meeting all requirements of paragraph (b), one or more of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The contract underlying the proposed transaction was entered into prior to October 23, 1992;
(2) The transaction is for the exportation of medicine or medical supplies from a third country to Cuba, which shall not be restricted:
(i) Except to the extent such restrictions would be permitted under section 5(m) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 or section 203(b)(2) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act if the exportation were subject to these provisions;
(ii) Except in a case in which there is a reasonable likelihood that the item to be exported will be used for purposes of torture or other human rights abuses;
(iii) Except in a case in which there is a reasonable likelihood that the item to be exported will be reexported; or
(iv) Except in a case in which the item to be exported could be used in the production of any biotechnological product; and
(v) Except in a case where it is determined that the United States Government is unable to verify, by on-site inspection or other means, that the item to be exported will be used for the purpose for which it was intended and only for the use and benefit of the Cuban people, but this exception shall not apply to donations for humanitarian purposes to a nongovernmental organization in Cuba.
(3) The transaction is for the exportation of telecommunications equipment from a third country, when the equipment is determined to be necessary for efficient and adequate telecommunications service between the United States and Cuba.
(b) Specific licenses will be issued in appropriate cases for certain categories of transactions between U.S.-owned or controlled firms in third countries and Cuba, where local law requires, or policy in the third country favors, trade with Cuba. The categories include:
(1) Exportation to Cuba of commodities produced in the authorized trade territory, provided:
(i) The commodities to be exported are non-strategic;
(ii) United States-origin technical data (other than maintenance, repair and operations data) will not be transferred;
(iii) If any U.S.-origin parts and components are included therein, such inclusion has been authorized by the Department of Commerce;
(iv) If any U.S.-origin spares are to be reexported to Cuba in connection with a licensed transaction, such reexport has been authorized by the Department of Commerce;
(v) No U.S. dollar accounts are involved; and
(vi) Any financing or other extension of credit by a U.S.-owned or controlled firm is granted on normal short-term conditions which are appropriate for the commodity to be exported.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Importation of goods of Cuban origin into countries in the authorized trade territory.
Note to paragraph (
b
):
On October 23, 1992, sections 1705 and 1706 of the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992, Pub. L. 102-484 (Oct. 23, 1992) (codified at 22 U.S.C. 6004 and 6005, respectively), prohibited OFAC from issuing licenses for any transaction described in this paragraph other than those transactions currently set forth in paragraph (a).
(c) The term strategic goods means any item, regardless of origin, of a type included in the Commodity Control List of the U.S. Department of Commerce (15 CFR part 399) and identified by the code letter “A” following the Export Control Commodity Numbers, or of a type the unauthorized exportation of which from the United States is prohibited by regulations issued under the Arms Export Control Act of 1976, 22 U.S.C. 2778, or under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. 2011, et seq., or successor acts restricting the export of strategic goods.
strategic goods
means any item, regardless of origin, of a type included in the Commodity Control List of the U.S. Department of Commerce (15 CFR part 399) and identified by the code letter “A” following the Export Control Commodity Numbers, or of a type the unauthorized exportation of which from the United States is prohibited by regulations issued under the Arms Export Control Act of 1976, 22 U.S.C. 2778, or under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. 2011,
et seq.,
or successor acts restricting the export of strategic goods.
(d) General license. Travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are directly incident to market research, commercial marketing, sales or contract negotiation, accompanied delivery, installation, leasing, servicing, or repair in Cuba of exports that are consistent with the licensing policy under paragraph (a) of this section are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
General license.
Travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are directly incident to market research, commercial marketing, sales or contract negotiation, accompanied delivery, installation, leasing, servicing, or repair in Cuba of exports that are consistent with the licensing policy under paragraph (a) of this section are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
(e) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (d) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (d) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(f) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to certain transactions by U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign firms with Cuba that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (d) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to certain transactions by U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign firms with Cuba that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (d) of this section.
Note 1 to § 515.559:
For authorization of the reexportation of U.S.-origin items, see § 515.533. Transactions by U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign firms directly incident to the exportation of information or informational materials or the donation of food to nongovernmental entities or individuals in Cuba are exempt from the prohibitions of this part. See § 515.206. For the waiver of the prohibitions contained in § 515.207 with respect to vessels transporting shipments of items pursuant to this section, see § 515.550.
Note 2 to § 515.559:
See § 515.585 for provisions related to certain transactions by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction with certain Cuban nationals in third countries.
[[40 FR 47108, Oct. 8, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 1472, Jan. 7, 1977; 42 FR 16621, Mar. 29, 1977; 50 FR 27438, July 3, 1985; 53 FR 47527, Nov. 23, 1988; 58 FR 34710, June 29, 1993; 64 FR 25814, May 13, 1999; 66 FR 36687, July 12, 2001; 68 FR 14146, Mar. 24, 2003; 80 FR 2294, Jan. 16, 2015; 80 FR 56921, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 13991, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71376, Oct. 17, 2016; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.560   Travel-related transactions to, from, and within Cuba by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction.

(a) The travel-related transactions listed in paragraph (c) of this section may be authorized either by a general license or on a case-by-case basis by a specific license for travel related to the following activities (see the referenced sections for the applicable general and specific licensing criteria):
(1) Family visits (see § 515.561);
(2) Official business of the U.S. government, foreign governments, and certain intergovernmental organizations (see § 515.562);
(3) Journalistic activity (see § 515.563);
(4) Professional research and professional meetings (see § 515.564);
(5) Educational activities (see § 515.565);
(6) Religious activities (see § 515.566);
(7) Public performances, clinics, workshops, athletic and other competitions, and exhibitions (see § 515.567);
(8) Support for the Cuban people (see § 515.574);
(9) Humanitarian projects (see § 515.575);
(10) Activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes (see § 515.576);
(11) Exportation, importation, or transmission of information or informational materials (see § 515.545); and
(12) Certain export transactions that may be considered for authorization under existing Department of Commerce regulations and guidelines with respect to Cuba or engaged in by U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign firms (see §§ 515.533 and 515.559).
(b) Effective October 28, 2000, no specific licenses will be issued authorizing the travel-related transactions in paragraph (c) of this section in connection with activities other than those referenced in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, persons generally or specifically licensed under this part to engage in transactions in connection with travel to, from, and within Cuba may engage in the following transactions:
(1) Transportation to, from, and within Cuba; Cuban visas. All transportation-related transactions ordinarily incident to travel to, from, and within Cuba, including the acquisition of Cuban visas, are authorized.
Transportation to, from, and within Cuba; Cuban visas.
All transportation-related transactions ordinarily incident to travel to, from, and within Cuba, including the acquisition of Cuban visas, are authorized.
(2) Living expenses in Cuba. All transactions ordinarily incident to travel within Cuba, including payment of living expenses and the acquisition in Cuba of goods for personal consumption there, are authorized.
Living expenses in Cuba.
All transactions ordinarily incident to travel within Cuba, including payment of living expenses and the acquisition in Cuba of goods for personal consumption there, are authorized.
(3) Importation of Cuban merchandise. The purchase or other acquisition in Cuba and importation as accompanied baggage into the United States of merchandise is authorized, provided that the merchandise is imported for personal use only. This paragraph does not apply to the importation into the United States of Cuban-origin alcohol or tobacco products. The importation of Cuban-origin information and informational materials is exempt from the prohibitions of this part, as described in § 515.206. The importation of certain other specified goods and services is authorized in §§ 515.544, 515.547, 515.569, 515.578, 515.582, and 515.585.
Importation of Cuban merchandise.
The purchase or other acquisition in Cuba and importation as accompanied baggage into the United States of merchandise is authorized, provided that the merchandise is imported for personal use only. This paragraph does not apply to the importation into the United States of Cuban-origin alcohol or tobacco products. The importation of Cuban-origin information and informational materials is exempt from the prohibitions of this part, as described in § 515.206. The importation of certain other specified goods and services is authorized in §§ 515.544, 515.547, 515.569, 515.578, 515.582, and 515.585.
(4) Carrying remittances to Cuba. The carrying to Cuba of any remittances that the licensed traveler is authorized to remit pursuant to § 515.570 is authorized, provided that no emigration-related remittances authorized by § 515.570(e) are carried to Cuba unless a U.S. immigration visa has been issued for each payee and the licensed traveler can produce the visa recipients' full names, dates of birth, visa numbers, and visa dates of issuance.
Carrying remittances to Cuba.
The carrying to Cuba of any remittances that the licensed traveler is authorized to remit pursuant to § 515.570 is authorized, provided that no emigration-related remittances authorized by § 515.570(e) are carried to Cuba unless a U.S. immigration visa has been issued for each payee and the licensed traveler can produce the visa recipients' full names, dates of birth, visa numbers, and visa dates of issuance.
(5) Processing certain financial instruments. All transactions incident to the processing and payment of credit cards, debit cards, stored value cards, checks, drafts, travelers' checks, and similar instruments used or negotiated in Cuba by any person authorized pursuant to this part to engage in financial transactions in Cuba are authorized. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may rely on the traveler with regard to compliance with this paragraph, provided that such persons do not know or have reason to know that a transaction is not authorized by this section.
Processing certain financial instruments.
All transactions incident to the processing and payment of credit cards, debit cards, stored value cards, checks, drafts, travelers' checks, and similar instruments used or negotiated in Cuba by any person authorized pursuant to this part to engage in financial transactions in Cuba are authorized. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may rely on the traveler with regard to compliance with this paragraph, provided that such persons do not know or have reason to know that a transaction is not authorized by this section.
Note to § 515.560(
c
)(5):
Please see § 515.584 for additional provisions related to the processing and payment of credit and debit card transactions.
(6)(i) Opening and maintaining bank accounts. All transactions incident to the opening and maintenance of accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, at a financial institution in Cuba are authorized, provided that such accounts are used only while the traveler is located in Cuba and for the purpose of accessing funds in Cuba for transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from, this part.
Opening and maintaining bank accounts.
All transactions incident to the opening and maintenance of accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, at a financial institution in Cuba are authorized, provided that such accounts are used only while the traveler is located in Cuba and for the purpose of accessing funds in Cuba for transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from, this part.
(ii) Closing bank accounts. All transactions incident to the closing of accounts opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section are authorized, provided that any transfer of funds may only be effected by wire transfer to an account maintained at a depository institution, as defined in § 515.333, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Closing bank accounts.
All transactions incident to the closing of accounts opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section are authorized, provided that any transfer of funds may only be effected by wire transfer to an account maintained at a depository institution, as defined in § 515.333, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Note to paragraph (
c
)(6):
Account(s) authorized by this general license may only be accessed while the account holder is located in Cuba for travel authorized pursuant to this part. The account(s) may not be accessed or utilized by the account holder unless the account holder is located in Cuba and is engaging in authorized transactions. The account(s) may be maintained but not accessed while the account holder is located outside of Cuba other than for the purpose of funding or closing the bank account as authorized in paragraph (c)(6).
(d) Nothing in paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(6)(i) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, and nothing in paragraph (c)(2) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or otherwise making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210, in each case if the terms of the applicable general or specific license expressly exclude such a transaction.
(e) A blocked Cuban national permanently resident in Cuba who is departing the United States may carry currency as follows:
(1) The amount of any currency brought into the United States by the Cuban national and registered with U.S. Customs and Border Protection upon entry;
(2) Funds received as remittances pursuant to § 515.570 by the Cuban national during his or her stay in the United States; and
(3) Salaries or other compensation earned by the Cuban national up to any amount that can be substantiated through payment receipts as authorized in § 515.571(a)(5).
(f) Nothing in this section authorizes transactions in connection with tourist travel to Cuba.
Note 1 to § 515.560:
Each person relying on the general authorization in this section must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
Note 2 to § 515.560:
This section authorizes the provision of health insurance-, life insurance-, and travel insurance-related services to authorized travelers, as well as the receipt of emergency medical services and the making of payments related thereto.
Note 3 to § 515.560:
The export or reexport to Cuba of goods (including software) or technology subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) may require separate authorization from the Department of Commerce.
[[64 FR 25814, May 13, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 36688, July 12, 2001; 68 FR 14146, Mar. 24, 2003; 69 FR 33771, 33773, June 16, 2004; 74 FR 46006, Sept. 8, 2009; 76 FR 5074, Jan. 28, 2011; 80 FR 2295, Jan. 16, 2015; 80 FR 56922, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 13992, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71376, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.561   Family visits.

(a) General license. Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and persons traveling with them who share a common dwelling as a family with them are authorized to engage in the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to: visiting a close relative, as defined in § 515.339, who is a national of Cuba or a person ordinarily resident in Cuba; or visiting a close relative located in Cuba or accompanying a close relative traveling to Cuba pursuant to the authorizations in § 515.562 (official government business), § 515.563 (journalistic activity), § 515.564(a)(1) (professional research), § 515.565(a)(1)(1) through (4) and (6) (educational activities), § 515.566 (religious activities), § 515.575 (humanitarian projects), or § 515.576 (activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes). Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, or the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
General license.
Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and persons traveling with them who share a common dwelling as a family with them are authorized to engage in the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to: visiting a close relative, as defined in § 515.339, who is a national of Cuba or a person ordinarily resident in Cuba; or visiting a close relative located in Cuba or accompanying a close relative traveling to Cuba pursuant to the authorizations in § 515.562 (official government business), § 515.563 (journalistic activity), § 515.564(a)(1) (professional research), § 515.565(a)(1)(1) through (4) and (6) (educational activities), § 515.566 (religious activities), § 515.575 (humanitarian projects), or § 515.576 (activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes). Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, or the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
Each person relying on the general authorization in this paragraph must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(b) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to family visits that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to family visits that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.
[[80 FR 2295, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56922, Sept. 21, 2015; 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35089, June 9, 2022]]

§ 515.562   Official business of the U.S. government, foreign governments, and certain intergovernmental organizations.

(a) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to activities in their official capacities by persons who are employees, contractors, or grantees of the United States Government, any foreign government, or any intergovernmental organization of which the United States is a member or holds observer status, and who are traveling on the official business of their government or intergovernmental organization, are authorized.
(b) All transactions otherwise prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or of any intergovernmental organization of which the United States is a member, or holds observer status, by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof, are authorized.
Note to § 515.562(
a
) and (
b
):
Each person relying on the general authorization in this paragraph must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. For example, grantees or contractors relying on the authorization in this section must retain a copy of their grant or contract with the United States Government, foreign government, or intergovernmental organization. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(c) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.
(d) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to official government business that do not qualify for the general licenses under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to official government business that do not qualify for the general licenses under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
[[80 FR 2295, Jan. 16, 2015]]

§ 515.563   Journalistic activities in Cuba.

(a) General license. The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to journalistic activities in Cuba are authorized, provided that:
General license.
The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to journalistic activities in Cuba are authorized, provided that:
(1) The traveler is at least one of the following:
(i) Regularly employed as a journalist by a news reporting organization;
(ii) Regularly employed as supporting broadcast or technical personnel;
(iii) A freelance journalist with a record of previous journalistic experience working on a freelance journalistic project; or
(iv) Broadcast or technical personnel with a record of previous broadcast or technical experience, who are supporting a freelance journalist working on a freelance journalistic project; and
(2) The traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
Note to § 515.563(
a
):
Each person relying on the general authorization in this paragraph must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(b) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.
(c) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(d) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to journalistic activity in Cuba that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to journalistic activity in Cuba that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
[[80 FR 2296, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.564   Professional research and professional meetings in Cuba.

(a) General license for professional research (1) Professional research. The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to professional research are authorized, provided that:
General license for professional research
(1)
Professional research.
The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to professional research are authorized, provided that:
(i) The purpose of the research directly relates to the traveler's profession, professional background, or area of expertise, including area of graduate-level full-time study; and
(ii) The traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule of professional research.
Example to paragraph (a)(1):
The making of a documentary film in Cuba would qualify for the general license in this section if it is a vehicle for presentation of the research conducted pursuant to this section.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
)(1):
A person does not qualify as engaging in professional research merely because that person is a professional who plans to travel to Cuba.
(2) Professional meetings. The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to attendance at, or organization of, professional meetings or conferences in Cuba are authorized, provided that:
Professional meetings.
The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to attendance at, or organization of, professional meetings or conferences in Cuba are authorized, provided that:
(i) For a traveler attending a professional meeting or conference, the purpose of the meeting or conference directly relates to the traveler's profession, professional background, or area of expertise, including area of graduate-level full-time study;
(ii) For a traveler organizing a professional meeting or conference on behalf of an entity, either the traveler's profession must be related to the organization of professional meetings or conferences or the traveler must be an employee or contractor of an entity that is organizing the professional meeting or conference; and
(iii) The traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule of attendance at, or organization of, professional meetings or conferences.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
)(2):
Transactions incident to the organization of professional meetings or conferences include marketing related to such meetings or conferences in Cuba.
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
Each person relying on the general authorization in this paragraph must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(b) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.
Example to paragraph (b):
A musicologist travels to Cuba to research Cuban music pursuant to the general license for professional research set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. Others who are simply interested in music may not engage in travel-related transactions with the musicologist in reliance on this general license. For example, an art historian who plays in the same band with the musicologist would not qualify for the general license.
(c) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
(d) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(e) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to professional research or professional meetings in Cuba that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section .
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to professional research or professional meetings in Cuba that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section .
[[80 FR 2296, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 4585, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35089, June 9, 2022]]

§ 515.565   Educational activities.

(a) General license for educational activities. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction, including U.S. academic institutions and their faculty, staff, and students, are authorized to engage in transactions including the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c), that are related to:
General license for educational activities.
Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction, including U.S. academic institutions and their faculty, staff, and students, are authorized to engage in transactions including the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c), that are related to:
(1) Participation in a structured educational program in Cuba as part of a course offered for credit by a U.S. graduate or undergraduate degree-granting academic institution that is sponsoring the program;
(2) Noncommercial academic research in Cuba specifically related to Cuba and for the purpose of obtaining an undergraduate or graduate degree;
(3) Participation in a formal course of study at a Cuban academic institution, provided the formal course of study in Cuba will be accepted for credit toward the student's graduate or undergraduate degree;
(4) Teaching at a Cuban academic institution related to an academic program at the Cuban institution, provided that the individual is regularly employed by a U.S. or other non-Cuban academic institution;
(5) Sponsorship of a Cuban scholar to teach or engage in other scholarly activity at the sponsoring U.S. academic institution (in addition to those transactions authorized by the general license contained in § 515.571).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
)(5):
See § 515.571(a) for authorizations related to certain banking transactions and receipt of salary or other compensation by Cuban nationals present in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government.
See
§ 515.571(a) for authorizations related to certain banking transactions and receipt of salary or other compensation by Cuban nationals present in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government.
(6) Educational exchanges sponsored by Cuban or U.S. secondary schools involving secondary school students' participation in a formal course of study or in a structured educational program offered by a secondary school or other academic institution and led by a teacher or other secondary school official. This includes participation by a reasonable number of adult chaperones to accompany the secondary school students to Cuba.
(7) Sponsorship or co-sponsorship of noncommercial academic seminars, conferences, symposia, and workshops related to Cuba or global issues involving Cuba and attendance at such events by faculty, staff, and students of a participating U.S. academic institution;
(8) Establishment of academic exchanges and joint non-commercial academic research projects with universities or academic institutions in Cuba;
(9) Provision of standardized testing services, including professional certificate examinations, university entrance examinations, and language examinations, and related preparatory services for such exams, to Cuban nationals, wherever located;
(10) Provision of internet-based courses, including distance learning and Massive Open Online Courses, to Cuban nationals, wherever located, provided that the course content is at the undergraduate level or below;
(11) The organization of, and preparation for, activities described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section by employees or contractors of the sponsoring organization that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction; or
(12) Facilitation by an organization that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction, or a member of the staff of such an organization, of licensed educational activities in Cuba on behalf of U.S. academic institutions or secondary schools, provided that:
(i) The organization is directly affiliated with one or more U.S. academic institutions or secondary schools; and
(ii) The organization facilitates educational activities that meet the requirements of one or more of the general licenses set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) and (6) of this section.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 515.560(c)(6) for an authorization for individuals to open and maintain accounts at Cuban financial institutions; see § 515.573 for an authorization for entities conducting educational activities authorized by this paragraph (a) to establish a physical presence in Cuba, including an authorization to open and maintain accounts at Cuban financial institutions.
See
§ 515.560(c)(6) for an authorization for individuals to open and maintain accounts at Cuban financial institutions; see § 515.573 for an authorization for entities conducting educational activities authorized by this paragraph (a) to establish a physical presence in Cuba, including an authorization to open and maintain accounts at Cuban financial institutions.
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
The authorization in this paragraph extends to adjunct faculty and part-time staff of U.S. academic institutions. A student enrolled in a U.S. academic institution is authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section to participate in the academic activities in Cuba described above through any sponsoring U.S. academic institution.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
The export or reexport to Cuba of items subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) may require separate authorization from the Department of Commerce.
Note 5 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 515.590(a) for an authorization for the provision of educational grants, scholarships, or awards to a Cuban national or in which Cuba or a Cuban national otherwise has an interest.
See
§ 515.590(a) for an authorization for the provision of educational grants, scholarships, or awards to a Cuban national or in which Cuba or a Cuban national otherwise has an interest.
(b) General license for people-to-people travel. The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to educational exchanges not involving academic study pursuant to a degree program are authorized, provided that:
General license for people-to-people travel.
The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to educational exchanges not involving academic study pursuant to a degree program are authorized, provided that:
(1) The exchanges take place under the auspices of an organization that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction and that sponsors such exchanges to promote people-to-people contact;
(2) Travel-related transactions pursuant to this authorization must be for the purpose of engaging, while in Cuba, in a full-time schedule of activities intended to enhance contact with the Cuban people, support civil society in Cuba, or promote the Cuban people's independence from Cuban authorities;
(3) Each traveler has a full-time schedule of educational exchange activities that will result in meaningful interaction between the traveler and individuals in Cuba;
(4) An employee, paid consultant, or agent of the sponsoring organization accompanies each group traveling to Cuba to ensure that each traveler has a full-time schedule of educational exchange activities; and
(5) The predominant portion of the activities engaged in by individual travelers is not with a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338.
(6) In addition to all other information required by § 501.601 of this chapter, entities sponsoring travel pursuant to the authorization in this paragraph (b) must retain records sufficient to demonstrate that each individual traveler has engaged in a full-time schedule of activities that satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. Individuals may rely on the entity sponsoring the travel to satisfy their recordkeeping requirements with respect to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. These records must be furnished to the Office of Foreign Assets Control on demand pursuant to § 501.602 of this chapter.
Example 1 to paragraph (b):
An organization wishes to sponsor and organize educational exchanges not involving academic study pursuant to a degree program for individuals to learn side-by-side with Cuban individuals in areas such as environmental protection or the arts. The travelers will have a full-time schedule of educational exchange activities that will result in meaningful interaction between the travelers and individuals in Cuba. The organization's activities qualify for the general license.
Example 2 to paragraph (b):
An individual plans to travel to Cuba to participate in discussions with Cuban artists on community projects, exchanges with the founders of a youth arts program, and extended dialogue with local city planners and architects to learn about historical restoration projects in Old Havana. The individual traveler will have a full-time schedule of such educational exchange activities that result in meaningful interaction between the traveler and individuals in Cuba. The individual's activities do not qualify for the general license for people-to-people travel because the individual is not traveling under the auspices of an organization that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction and that sponsors such exchanges to promote people-to-people contact. The individual's travel may qualify for the general license in § 515.574 (Support for the Cuban People) provided the individual meets all of its requirements.
Note 6 to paragraph (
b
):
An organization that sponsors and organizes trips to Cuba in which travelers engage in individually selected and/or self-directed activities would not qualify for the general license. Authorized trips are expected to be led by the organization and to have a full-time schedule of activities in which the travelers will participate.
Note 7 to paragraphs (
a
) and (
b
):
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, each person relying on the general authorizations in these paragraphs, including entities sponsoring travel pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (b) of this section, must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
See
§§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(c) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
(d) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(e) Transactions related to activities that are primarily tourist-oriented are not authorized pursuant to this section.
(f) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to educational activities that do not qualify for the general licenses under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to educational activities that do not qualify for the general licenses under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
[[82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 25992, June 5, 2019; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35089, June 9, 2022; 89 FR 46325, May 29, 2024]]

§ 515.566   Religious activities in Cuba.

(a) General license. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction, including religious organizations located in the United States and members and staff of such organizations, are authorized to engage in the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to engaging in religious activities in Cuba, provided that the travel-related transactions pursuant to this authorization must be for the purpose of engaging, while in Cuba, in a full-time schedule of religious activities. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, or the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
General license.
Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction, including religious organizations located in the United States and members and staff of such organizations, are authorized to engage in the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to engaging in religious activities in Cuba, provided that the travel-related transactions pursuant to this authorization must be for the purpose of engaging, while in Cuba, in a full-time schedule of religious activities. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, or the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Note to § 515.566(
a
):
Each person relying on the general authorization in this paragraph must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(b) Financial and material donations to Cuba or Cuban nationals are not authorized by this section.
Note to § 515.566(
b
):
See § 515.570 regarding authorized remittances to religious organizations in Cuba and for other purposes. See § 515.533 regarding the exportation of items from the United States to Cuba.
(c) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to religious activities that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to religious activities that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
Note to § 515.566:
See § 515.573 for an authorization permitting religious organizations engaging in activities authorized pursuant to this section to establish a physical presence in Cuba, including an authorization to open and maintain accounts at Cuban financial institutions.
[[80 FR 2297, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56923, Sept. 21, 2015; 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.567   Public performances, clinics, workshops, athletic and other competitions, and exhibitions.

(a) General license for amateur and semi-professional international sports federation competitions. The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are directly incident to participation in athletic competitions in Cuba by amateur or semi-professional athletes or athletic teams, or organization of such competitions, are authorized, provided that:
General license for amateur and semi-professional international sports federation competitions.
The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are directly incident to participation in athletic competitions in Cuba by amateur or semi-professional athletes or athletic teams, or organization of such competitions, are authorized, provided that:
(1) The athletic competition in Cuba is held under the auspices of the international sports federation for the relevant sport;
(2) The U.S. participants in the athletic competition are selected by the U.S. federation for the relevant sport; and
(3) The competition is open for attendance, and in relevant situations, participation, by the Cuban public.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Each person relying on the general license described in paragraph (a) must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
Transactions incident to the organization of amateur and semi-professional international sports federation competitions described in paragraph (a) include marketing related to such events in Cuba.
(b) Public performances, clinics, workshops, other athletic or non-athletic competitions, and exhibitions. Specific licenses, including for multiple trips to Cuba over an extended period of time, may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are directly incident to participation in or organization of a public performance, clinic, workshop, athletic competition not covered by paragraph (a) of this section, non-athletic competition, or exhibition in Cuba by participants in or organizers of such activities, provided that the event is open for attendance, and in relevant situations, participation, by the Cuban public.
Public performances, clinics, workshops, other athletic or non-athletic competitions, and exhibitions.
Specific licenses, including for multiple trips to Cuba over an extended period of time, may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are directly incident to participation in or organization of a public performance, clinic, workshop, athletic competition not covered by paragraph (a) of this section, non-athletic competition, or exhibition in Cuba by participants in or organizers of such activities, provided that the event is open for attendance, and in relevant situations, participation, by the Cuban public.
(c) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.
(d) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
(e) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
[[80 FR 2298, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 4585, Jan. 27, 2016; 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.568   [Reserved]


§ 515.569   Foreign passengers' baggage.

The importation of merchandise subject to the prohibitions in § 515.204, including Cuban-origin goods, brought into the United States as accompanied baggage by any person arriving in the United States other than a citizen or resident of the United States is hereby authorized, provided that such goods are not in commercial quantities and are not imported for resale. This authorization does not apply to the importation into the United States of Cuban-origin alcohol or tobacco products.
[[81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.570   Remittances.

(a) Family remittances authorized. Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who are 18 years of age or older are authorized to make remittances to nationals of Cuba who are close relatives, as defined in § 515.339 of this part, of the remitter, provided that:
Family remittances authorized.
Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who are 18 years of age or older are authorized to make remittances to nationals of Cuba who are close relatives, as defined in § 515.339 of this part, of the remitter, provided that:
(1) The remittances are not made from a blocked source. Certain remittances from blocked accounts are authorized pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section;
(2) The recipient is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, a close relative, as defined in § 515.339, of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, or a close relative of a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party; and
(3) The remittances are not made for emigration-related purposes. Remittances for emigration-related purposes are addressed by paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) Donative remittances to Cuban nationals authorized. Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to make donative remittances to Cuban nationals, provided that:
Donative remittances to Cuban nationals authorized.
Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to make donative remittances to Cuban nationals, provided that:
(1) The remittances are not made from a blocked source;
(2) The recipient is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, a close relative, as defined in § 515.539, of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, or a close relative of a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party;
(3) The remittances are not made for emigration-related purposes (which are addressed by paragraph (e) of this section); and
(4) The remitter, if an individual, is 18 years of age or older.
(c) Remittances to religious organizations in Cuba authorized. Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to make remittances to religious organizations in Cuba in support of religious activities, provided that the remittances are not made from a blocked source and that the remitter, if an individual, is 18 years of age or older.
Remittances to religious organizations in Cuba authorized.
Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to make remittances to religious organizations in Cuba in support of religious activities, provided that the remittances are not made from a blocked source and that the remitter, if an individual, is 18 years of age or older.
(d) Remittances to students in Cuba pursuant to an educational license authorized. Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who are 18 years of age or older are authorized to make remittances to close relatives, as defined in § 515.339 of this part, who are students in Cuba pursuant to the general license authorizing certain educational activities in § 515.565(a) or a specific license issued pursuant to § 515.565(f), provided that the remittances are not made from a blocked source and are for the purpose of funding transactions authorized by the general licenses in § 515.565(a) or the specific license issued pursuant to § 515.565(f) under which the student is traveling.
Remittances to students in Cuba pursuant to an educational license authorized.
Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who are 18 years of age or older are authorized to make remittances to close relatives, as defined in § 515.339 of this part, who are students in Cuba pursuant to the general license authorizing certain educational activities in § 515.565(a) or a specific license issued pursuant to § 515.565(f), provided that the remittances are not made from a blocked source and are for the purpose of funding transactions authorized by the general licenses in § 515.565(a) or the specific license issued pursuant to § 515.565(f) under which the student is traveling.
(e) Two one-time $1,000 emigration-related remittances authorized. Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to remit the following amounts:
Two one-time $1,000 emigration-related remittances authorized.
Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to remit the following amounts:
(1) Up to $1,000 per payee on a one-time basis to Cuban nationals for the purpose of covering the payees' preliminary expenses associated with emigrating from Cuba to the United States. These remittances may be sent before the payees have received valid visas issued by the State Department or other approved U.S. immigration documents, but may not be carried by a licensed traveler to Cuba until the payees have received valid visas issued by the State Department or other approved U.S. immigration documents. See § 515.560(c)(4) of this part for the rules regarding the carrying of authorized remittances to Cuba. These remittances may not be made from a blocked source unless authorized pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) Up to an additional $1,000 per payee on a one-time basis to Cuban nationals for the purpose of enabling the payees to emigrate from Cuba to the United States, including for the purchase of airline tickets and payment of exit or third-country visa fees or other travel-related fees. These remittances may be sent only once the payees have received valid visas issued by the State Department or other approved U.S. immigration documents. A remitter must be able to provide the visa recipients' full names, dates of birth, visa numbers, and visa dates of issuance. See § 515.560(c)(4) of this part for the rules regarding the carrying of authorized remittances to Cuba. These remittances may not be made from a blocked source unless authorized pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) Certain remittances from blocked sources authorized. Provided the recipient is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, a close relative, as defined in § 515.339, of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, or a close relative of a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, certain remittances from blocked sources are authorized as follows:
Certain remittances from blocked sources authorized.
Provided the recipient is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, a close relative, as defined in § 515.339, of a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, or a close relative of a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, certain remittances from blocked sources are authorized as follows:
(1) Funds deposited in a blocked account in a banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, in the United States held in the name of, or in which the beneficial interest is held by, a national of Cuba as a result of a valid testamentary disposition, intestate succession or payment from a life insurance policy or annuity contract triggered by the death of the policy or contract holder may be remitted to that national of Cuba, provided that the remittances are not made for emigration-related purposes. Remittances for emigration-related purposes are addressed by paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Up to $300 in any consecutive three-month period may be remitted from any blocked account in a banking institution in the United States to a Cuban national in a third country who is an individual in whose name, or for whose beneficial interest, the account is held.
(g) Remittances to certain individuals and independent non-governmental organizations in Cuba. Remittances by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction to individuals and independent non-governmental entities in Cuba, including pro-democracy groups and civil society groups, and to members of such groups or organizations, are authorized for the following purposes, provided that the remittances are not made from a blocked source:
Remittances to certain individuals and independent non-governmental organizations in Cuba.
Remittances by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction to individuals and independent non-governmental entities in Cuba, including pro-democracy groups and civil society groups, and to members of such groups or organizations, are authorized for the following purposes, provided that the remittances are not made from a blocked source:
(1) To support humanitarian projects in or related to Cuba that are designed to directly benefit the Cuban people, as set forth in § 515.575(b);
(2) To support the Cuban people through activities of recognized human rights organizations, independent organizations designed to promote a rapid, peaceful transition to democracy, and activities of individuals and non-governmental organizations that promote independent activity intended to strengthen civil society in Cuba; and
(3) To support the development of private businesses in Cuba, including farms of up to 100 employees, and operation of economic activity in the non-state sector of Cuba by independent private sector entrepreneurs, as defined in § 515.340.
(h) Unblocking of certain previously blocked remittances authorized. Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to unblock and return remittances if they would have qualified as authorized had they been sent under current paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, provided that persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction unblocking remittances originally blocked on or after August 25, 1997 pursuant to this section must submit a report to the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, Attn: Sanctions Compliance & Evaluation Division, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220 within 10 business days from the date such remittances are released. Such reports shall include the following:
Unblocking of certain previously blocked remittances authorized.
Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to unblock and return remittances if they would have qualified as authorized had they been sent under current paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, provided that persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction unblocking remittances originally blocked on or after August 25, 1997 pursuant to this section must submit a report to the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, Attn: Sanctions Compliance & Evaluation Division, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220 within 10 business days from the date such remittances are released. Such reports shall include the following:
(1) Where available, a copy of the original blocking report filed with OFAC pursuant to § 501.603(b)(1) of this chapter;
(2) The date the unblocked remittance was released;
(3) The amount of funds unblocked;
(4) The name of the party to whom the remittance was released; and
(5) A reference to this section as the legal authority under which the remittance was unblocked and returned.
(i) Remittances to third-country nationals for certain travel. Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to make remittances to third-country nationals for travel by third-country nationals to, from, or within Cuba, provided that such travel would be authorized by a general license issued pursuant to this part if the traveler were a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Remittances to third-country nationals for certain travel.
Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to make remittances to third-country nationals for travel by third-country nationals to, from, or within Cuba, provided that such travel would be authorized by a general license issued pursuant to this part if the traveler were a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
(j) Remittance transactions with entities or subentities on the Cuba Restricted List prohibited. Nothing in paragraphs (a) through (i) authorizes a transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving any entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List, as published in the Federal Register and maintained by the State Department and available at https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/.
Remittance transactions with entities or subentities on the Cuba Restricted List prohibited.
Nothing in paragraphs (a) through (i) authorizes a transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving any entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List, as published in the
Federal Register
and maintained by the State Department and available at
https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/.
(k) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the following:
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the following:
(1) Remittances by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction to a person in Cuba, directly or indirectly, for transactions to facilitate non-immigrant travel by an individual in Cuba to the United States under circumstances where humanitarian need is demonstrated, including illness or other medical emergency.
(2) Remittances from a blocked account to a Cuban national in excess of the amount specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
Note 1 to § 515.570:
This section does not authorize investment with respect to Cuba.
Note 2 to § 515.570:
For the rules relating to the carrying of remittances to Cuba, see § 515.560(c)(4). See § 515.572 for an authorization related to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of certain remittances to or from Cuba.
[[76 FR 5076, Jan. 28, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 2298, Jan. 16, 2015; 80 FR 56923, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016; 84 FR 47122, Sept. 9, 2019; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020; 85 FR 67989, Oct. 27, 2020; 87 FR 35091, June 9, 2022; 89 FR 46325, May 29, 2024]]

§ 515.571   Certain transactions incident to travel to, from, and within the United States by Cuban nationals.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the following transactions by or on behalf of a Cuban national who is present in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government are authorized:
(1) All transactions ordinarily incident to travel between the United States and Cuba, including the importation into the United States of accompanied baggage for personal use. This paragraph (a)(1) does not apply to the importation into the United States of Cuban-origin alcohol or tobacco products;
(2) All transactions ordinarily incident to travel and maintenance within the United States, including the payment of living expenses and the acquisition of goods for personal consumption in the United States;
(3) All transactions on behalf of aircraft or vessels incident to flights or voyages between the United States and Cuba, provided that the carrier services are authorized pursuant to § 515.572. This paragraph does not authorize the carriage of any merchandise into the United States except accompanied baggage;
(4) Normal banking transactions involving foreign currency drafts, travelers' checks, or other instruments negotiated incident to travel in the United States by any person under the authority of this section; and
(5) All transactions ordinarily incident to the Cuban national's presence in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government.
(i) This paragraph (a)(5) authorizes the receipt of salary or other compensation by a national of Cuba consistent with the individual's non-immigrant status or non-immigrant travel authorization, provided that national of Cuba is not subject to any special tax assessments by the Cuban government in connection with the receipt of the salary or other compensation.
(ii) Examples of other transactions authorized by this paragraph (a)(5) include: the payment of tuition to a U.S. educational institution by a national of Cuba issued a student (F-1) visa, and the rental of a stage by a group of Cubans issued performance (P-2) visas.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(5):
This paragraph authorizes banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, to open and maintain accounts solely in the name of a Cuban national who is present in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization for use while the Cuban national is located in the United States in such status, and to close such accounts prior to departure. See paragraph (b) of this section for an authorization for banking institutions to maintain accounts opened pursuant to this paragraph while the Cuban national is located outside the United States.
Note to § 515.571(
a
):
This paragraph authorizes the provision or receipt of emergency medical services and making or receipt of payment related thereto.
(b) Maintenance of accounts opened pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section while the Cuban-national account holder is located outside the United States is authorized, provided that the Cuban-national account holder may only access the account pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section when the Cuban-national account holder is lawfully present in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government.
(c) Payments and transfers of credit in the United States from blocked accounts in domestic banking institutions held in the name of a Cuban national who is present in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government to or upon the order of such Cuban national are authorized, provided that such payments and transfers of credit are made only for the living, traveling, and similar personal expenses in the United States of such Cuban national or his or her family, or other transactions ordinarily incident to the Cuban national's presence in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government.
(d) This section does not authorize any transfer of property to Cuba, or, except as otherwise authorized in paragraph (b) of this section, any debit to a blocked account.
Note to § 515.571:
For the authorization of certain transactions by Cuban nationals who become U.S. citizens; are lawful permanent resident aliens of the United States; have applied to become a lawful permanent resident alien of the United States and have an adjustment of status application pending; or are lawfully present and intending to lawfully remain in the United States on a permanent basis, see § 515.505 of this part.
(e) The following transactions by or on behalf of a Cuban national are authorized:
(1) All transactions related to the sponsorship or hiring of a Cuban national to work in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government, except that an employer may not make payments to the Cuban government in connection with the sponsorship or hiring of a Cuban national; and
(2) All transactions in connection with the filing of an application for non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government.
[[64 FR 25819, May 13, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 14148, Mar. 24, 2003; 69 FR 33773, June 16, 2004; 76 FR 5077, Jan. 28, 2011; 80 FR 2299, Jan. 16, 2015; 80 FR 56923, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 13993, Mar. 16, 2016; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.572   Provision of travel, carrier, other transportation-related, and remittance forwarding services.

(a) General licenses—(1) Authorization to provide travel services. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide travel services in connection with travel-related transactions involving Cuba authorized pursuant to this part. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, or the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210, if the terms of the applicable general or specific license authorizing the travel expressly exclude such a transaction.
General licenses
—(1)
Authorization to provide travel services.
Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide travel services in connection with travel-related transactions involving Cuba authorized pursuant to this part. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, or the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210, if the terms of the applicable general or specific license authorizing the travel expressly exclude such a transaction.
(2) Authorization to provide carrier services. (i) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide carrier services to, from, or within Cuba in connection with travel or transportation, directly or indirectly, between the United States and Cuba of persons, baggage, or cargo authorized pursuant to this part.
Authorization to provide carrier services.
(i) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide carrier services to, from, or within Cuba in connection with travel or transportation, directly or indirectly, between the United States and Cuba of persons, baggage, or cargo authorized pursuant to this part.
(ii) The entry into blocked space, code-sharing, or leasing arrangements to facilitate the provision of carrier services by air authorized pursuant to section 515.572(a)(2) is authorized, including the entry into such arrangements with a national of Cuba.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
)(2):
The export or reexport to Cuba of items subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 730 et seq.), including vessels and aircraft used to provide carrier services, requires separate authorization from the Department of Commerce. See § 515.533.
et seq.
), including vessels and aircraft used to provide carrier services, requires separate authorization from the Department of Commerce. See § 515.533.
(3) Authorization to provide remittance forwarding services. Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, including U.S.-registered brokers or dealers in securities and U.S.-registered money transmitters, are authorized to provide services in connection with the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances authorized pursuant to this part. Nothing in this paragraph (a)(3) authorizes a transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving any entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List, as published in the Federal Register and maintained by the State Department and available at https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/.
Authorization to provide remittance forwarding services.
Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, including U.S.-registered brokers or dealers in securities and U.S.-registered money transmitters, are authorized to provide services in connection with the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances authorized pursuant to this part. Nothing in this paragraph (a)(3) authorizes a transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving any entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List, as published in the
Federal Register
and maintained by the State Department and available at
https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/.
(4) Authorization to provide lodging services. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who are providing carrier services by vessel authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section are authorized to provide lodging services onboard such vessels to persons authorized to travel to or from Cuba pursuant to this part during the period of time the vessel is traveling to, from, or within Cuba, including when docked at a port in Cuba.
Authorization to provide lodging services.
Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who are providing carrier services by vessel authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section are authorized to provide lodging services onboard such vessels to persons authorized to travel to or from Cuba pursuant to this part during the period of time the vessel is traveling to, from, or within Cuba, including when docked at a port in Cuba.
(5) Authorization to provide civil aviation safety-related services. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide civil aviation safety-related services to Cuba and Cuban nationals, wherever located, to ensure the safety of civil aviation and the safe operation of commercial aircraft.
Authorization to provide civil aviation safety-related services.
Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide civil aviation safety-related services to Cuba and Cuban nationals, wherever located, to ensure the safety of civil aviation and the safe operation of commercial aircraft.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
)(5):
For provisions related to transactions ordinarily incident to the exportation or reexportation of items to Cuba, see §§ 515.533 and 515.559.
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
Section 515.564 authorizes employees, officials, consultants, or agents of persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction providing travel or carrier services or remittance forwarding services authorized pursuant to this part to engage in the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to travel to Cuba for professional meetings in Cuba, such as those related to safety and security of flights to and from Cuba, or necessary to arrange for travel or carrier services or remittance forwarding to Cuba.
(b) Required reports and recordkeeping. (1) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction providing services authorized pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section must retain for at least 10 years from the date of the transaction a certification from each customer indicating the section of this part that authorizes the person to travel or send remittances to Cuba. In the case of a customer traveling under a specific license, the specific license number or a copy of the license must be maintained on file with the person subject to U.S. jurisdiction providing services authorized pursuant to this section.
Required reports and recordkeeping.
(1) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction providing services authorized pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section must retain for at least 10 years from the date of the transaction a certification from each customer indicating the section of this part that authorizes the person to travel or send remittances to Cuba. In the case of a customer traveling under a specific license, the specific license number or a copy of the license must be maintained on file with the person subject to U.S. jurisdiction providing services authorized pursuant to this section.
(2) The names and addresses of individual travelers or remitters, the number and amount of each remittance, and the name and address of each recipient, as applicable, must be retained on file with all other information required by § 501.601 of this chapter. These records must be furnished to the Office of Foreign Assets Control on demand pursuant to § 501.602 of this chapter.
(c) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the provision of travel, carrier, or remittance-forwarding services other than those authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the provision of travel, carrier, or remittance-forwarding services other than those authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 4 to § 515.572:
The following persons may be transported, directly or indirectly, between the United States and Cuba by a person authorized to provide carrier services:
(1) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who are traveling to or from Cuba pursuant to a general license under one of the 12 categories of travel listed in § 515.560 or under a specific license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control may be transported between the United States and Cuba;
(2) Cuban nationals applying for admission to the United States, as well as third-country nationals, with a valid visa or other travel authorization issued by the U.S. government may be transported to the United States from Cuba;
(3) Cuban nationals present in the United States in a non-immigrant status or pursuant to other non-immigrant travel authorization issued by the U.S. government may be transported from the United States to Cuba;
(4) Cuban nationals who have taken up residence in the United States and are licensed as unblocked nationals pursuant to § 515.505(a)(1) are persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction and may be transported between the United States and Cuba if they meet the criteria set out in (1) above; and
(5) An individual, including a foreign national, who is traveling on official business of the U.S. government, a foreign government, or an intergovernmental organization of which the United States is a member or in which the United States holds observer status—including an employee, contractor, or grantee of such government or intergovernmental organization and any individual traveling on a diplomatic passport, as well as any close relative, as defined in § 515.339, accompanying the traveler—may be transported between the United States and Cuba.
[[80 FR 2299, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56923, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 4586, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 84 FR 25993, June 5, 2019; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020; 85 FR 67989, Oct. 27, 2020; 87 FR 35091, June 9, 2022; 89 FR 74834, Sept. 13, 2024]]

§ 515.573   Physical presence and business presence in Cuba authorized; Cuban news bureaus.

(a) Physical presence: The persons listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to establish and maintain a physical presence in Cuba to engage in transactions authorized pursuant to or exempt from the prohibitions of this part, including the following:
Physical presence:
The persons listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to establish and maintain a physical presence in Cuba to engage in transactions authorized pursuant to or exempt from the prohibitions of this part, including the following:
(1) Leasing physical premises, including office, warehouse, classroom, or retail outlet space, and securing related goods and services, including for use in and to pay fees related to the operation of the physical premises;
(2) Marketing related to the physical presence;
(3) Employment of Cuban nationals in Cuba; and
(4) Employment of individuals who are persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(4):
Individuals who are employed pursuant to § 515.573(a)(4) are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to establish domicile in Cuba, including accessing U.S. assets, for the duration of their employment.
(5)(i) Opening and maintaining bank accounts at Cuban financial institutions to engage in authorized transactions. The opening and maintenance of accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, at a financial institution in Cuba, provided that such accounts are used only for transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from, this part.
Opening and maintaining bank accounts at Cuban financial institutions to engage in authorized transactions.
The opening and maintenance of accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, at a financial institution in Cuba, provided that such accounts are used only for transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from, this part.
(ii) Closing bank accounts. The closing of an account opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, provided that any transfer of funds may only be effected by wire transfer to an account maintained at a depository institution, as defined in § 515.333, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Closing bank accounts.
The closing of an account opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, provided that any transfer of funds may only be effected by wire transfer to an account maintained at a depository institution, as defined in § 515.333, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
Physical presence includes through a local representative, including an employee or contractor.
(b) Business presence. Except for transactions prohibited by § 515.208, the persons listed in paragraph (c) of this section are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to establish and maintain a business presence in Cuba to engage in transactions authorized pursuant to or exempt from the prohibitions of this part, including the following: establishing and maintaining subsidiaries, branches, offices, joint ventures, franchises, and agency or other business relationships with any Cuban national, and entering into all necessary agreements or arrangements with such entity or individual.
Business presence.
Except for transactions prohibited by § 515.208, the persons listed in paragraph (c) of this section are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to establish and maintain a business presence in Cuba to engage in transactions authorized pursuant to or exempt from the prohibitions of this part, including the following: establishing and maintaining subsidiaries, branches, offices, joint ventures, franchises, and agency or other business relationships with any Cuban national, and entering into all necessary agreements or arrangements with such entity or individual.
(c) Persons authorized to establish physical and business presence. The following persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may engage in the transactions authorized pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, provided that such transactions may only be engaged in to support transactions authorized by or exempt from the prohibitions of this part:
Persons authorized to establish physical and business presence.
The following persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may engage in the transactions authorized pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, provided that such transactions may only be engaged in to support transactions authorized by or exempt from the prohibitions of this part:
(1) Providers of telecommunications services authorized by § 515.542(b) through (d) or persons engaged in activities authorized by § 515.542(e);
(2) Providers of internet-based services authorized by § 515.578(a) or persons engaged in activities authorized by § 515.578(c) or (e);
(3) Exporters of goods authorized for export or reexport to Cuba by § 515.533 or § 515.559 or that are otherwise exempt;
Note to paragraph (
c
)(3):
This section authorizes the assembly in Cuba of items exported or reexported pursuant to authorization by the Department of Commerce or OFAC or that are otherwise exempt but does not authorize the incorporation of Cuban-origin goods into items assembled pursuant to this section or the processing of raw materials into finished goods in Cuba.
(4) Entities providing mail or parcel transmission services authorized by § 515.542(a) or providing cargo transportation services in connection with trade involving Cuba authorized by or exempt from the prohibitions of this part; and
(5) Providers of travel and carrier services authorized by § 515.572.
Note to paragraph (
c
)(5):
This authorization does not allow persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction to establish a physical or business presence in Cuba for the purpose of providing lodging services in Cuba.
(d) Persons authorized to establish physical presence. The following persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may engage in the transactions authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, provided that such transactions may only be engaged in to support transactions authorized by or exempt from the prohibitions of this part:
Persons authorized to establish physical presence.
The following persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction may engage in the transactions authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, provided that such transactions may only be engaged in to support transactions authorized by or exempt from the prohibitions of this part:
(1) News bureaus whose primary purpose is the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public authorized by paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Entities organizing or conducting educational activities authorized by § 515.565(a);
(3) Religious organizations engaging in religious activities in Cuba authorized by § 515.566;
(4) Entities engaging in non-commercial activities authorized by § 515.574 (Support for the Cuban People);
(5) Entities engaging in humanitarian projects set forth in § 515.575(b) (Humanitarian projects); and
(6) Private foundations or research or educational institutes engaging in transactions authorized by § 515.576.
(e) News bureaus. (1) All transactions in Cuba related to the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public are authorized.
News bureaus.
(1) All transactions in Cuba related to the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public are authorized.
(2) Specific licenses may be issued authorizing transactions necessary for the establishment and operation of news bureaus in the United States by Cuban organizations whose primary purpose is the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public.
(f) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. (1) Nothing in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, with the exception of transactions related to exports or reexports of agricultural commodities, medicines or medical supplies, items associated with the provision of telecommunications and internet services for the Cuban people, or items associated with air and sea operations that support permissible travel, cargo, or trade, authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209. Nothing in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, with the exception of transactions concerning air and sea operations that support permissible travel, cargo, or trade, authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
(1) Nothing in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, with the exception of transactions related to exports or reexports of agricultural commodities, medicines or medical supplies, items associated with the provision of telecommunications and internet services for the Cuban people, or items associated with air and sea operations that support permissible travel, cargo, or trade, authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209. Nothing in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, with the exception of transactions concerning air and sea operations that support permissible travel, cargo, or trade, authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (d)(2), (3), or (6) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Note to § 515.573:
The export or reexport to Cuba of items subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) may require separate authorization from the Department of Commerce.
[[80 FR 56924, Sept. 21, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 13993, Mar. 16, 2016; 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017]]

§ 515.574   Support for the Cuban People.

(a) General license. The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and other transactions that are intended to provide support for the Cuban people are authorized, provided that:
General license.
The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and other transactions that are intended to provide support for the Cuban people are authorized, provided that:
(1) The activities are of:
(i) Recognized human rights organizations;
(ii) Independent organizations designed to promote a rapid, peaceful transition to democracy; or
(iii) Individuals and non-governmental organizations that promote independent activity intended to strengthen civil society in Cuba; and
(2) Each traveler engages in a full-time schedule of activities that:
(i) Enhance contact with the Cuban people, support civil society in Cuba, or promote the Cuban people's independence from Cuban authorities; and
(ii) Result in meaningful interaction with individuals in Cuba.
(3) The traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Each person relying on the general authorization in this paragraph must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
Staying in a room at a rented accommodation in a private Cuban residence (casa particular), eating at privately-owned Cuban restaurants (paladares), and shopping at privately-owned stores run by self-employed Cubans (cuentapropista) are examples of activities that qualify for this general license. However, in order to meet the requirement for a full-time schedule, a traveler must engage in additional authorized Support for the Cuban People activities.
casa particular
), eating at privately-owned Cuban restaurants (
paladares
), and shopping at privately-owned stores run by self-employed Cubans (
cuentapropista
) are examples of activities that qualify for this general license. However, in order to meet the requirement for a full-time schedule, a traveler must engage in additional authorized Support for the Cuban People activities.
(b) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.
(c) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, with the exception of transactions on behalf of a non-governmental organization.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, with the exception of transactions on behalf of a non-governmental organization.
(d) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List (CPA List) to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List (CPA List) to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(e) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to support for the Cuban people that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to support for the Cuban people that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
Example 1 to § 515.574:
An individual plans to travel to Cuba, stay in a room at a rented accommodation in a private Cuban residence (
casa particular
), eat at privately-owned Cuban restaurants (
paladares
), and shop at privately-owned stores run by self-employed Cubans (
cuentapropista
) during his or her four-day trip. While at the
casa particular,
the individual will have breakfast each morning with the Cuban host and engage with the Cuban host to learn about Cuban culture. The traveler will not lodge, or pay for lodging, at any property on the CPA List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210. In addition, the traveler will complete his or her full-time schedule by supporting Cuban entrepreneurs launching their privately-owned businesses. The traveler's activities promote independent activity intended to strengthen civil society in Cuba. Because the individual's qualifying activities are not limited to staying in a room at a rented accommodation in a private Cuban residence (
casa particular
), eating at privately-owned Cuban restaurants (
paladares
), and shopping at privately owned stores run by self-employed Cubans (
cuentapropista
) and the traveler maintains a full-time schedule that enhances contact with the Cuban people, supports civil society in Cuba, and promotes the Cuban people's independence from Cuban authorities, and that results in meaningful interaction between the traveler and Cuban individuals, the individual's travel qualifies for the general license.
Example 2 to § 515.574:
A group of friends plans to travel and maintain a full-time schedule throughout their trip by volunteering with a recognized non-governmental organization to build a school for underserved Cuban children with the local community. In their free time, the travelers plan to rent bicycles to explore the streets of Havana and visit an art museum. The travelers will not lodge, or pay for lodging, at any property on the CPA List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210. The travelers' trip would qualify for the general license because the volunteer activities promote independent activity intended to strengthen civil society in Cuba and constitute a full-time schedule that enhances contact with the Cuban people and supports civil society in Cuba, and results in meaningful interaction between the travelers and individuals in Cuba.
Example 3 to § 515.574:
An individual plans to travel to Cuba, rent a bicycle to explore the neighborhoods and beaches, and engage in brief exchanges with local beach vendors. The individual intends to stay at a hotel that does not appear on the Cuba Restricted List (see § 515.209), and will not lodge, or pay for lodging, at any property on the CPA List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210. The traveler's trip does not qualify for this general license because none of these activities promote independent activity intended to strengthen civil society in Cuba.
[[80 FR 2299, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.575   Humanitarian projects.

(a) General license. Transactions, including the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c), that are related to the humanitarian projects in or related to Cuba that are designed to directly benefit the Cuban people as set forth in paragraph (b) are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
General license.
Transactions, including the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c), that are related to the humanitarian projects in or related to Cuba that are designed to directly benefit the Cuban people as set forth in paragraph (b) are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Each person relying on the general authorization in this paragraph must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 515.590(b) for an authorization for the provision of grants, scholarships, or awards related to humanitarian projects in or related to Cuba that are designed to directly benefit the Cuban people as set forth in paragraph (b).
(b) Authorized humanitarian projects. The following projects are authorized by paragraph (a) of this section: Medical and health-related projects; construction projects intended to benefit legitimately independent civil society groups; disaster preparedness, relief, and response; historical preservation; environmental projects; projects involving formal or non-formal educational training, within Cuba or off-island, on the following topics: Entrepreneurship and business, civil education, journalism, advocacy and organizing, adult literacy, or vocational skills; community-based grassroots projects; projects suitable to the development of small-scale private enterprise; projects that are related to agricultural and rural development that promote independent activity; microfinancing projects, except for loans, extensions of credit, or other financing prohibited by § 515.208; and projects to meet basic human needs.
Authorized humanitarian projects.
The following projects are authorized by paragraph (a) of this section: Medical and health-related projects; construction projects intended to benefit legitimately independent civil society groups; disaster preparedness, relief, and response; historical preservation; environmental projects; projects involving formal or non-formal educational training, within Cuba or off-island, on the following topics: Entrepreneurship and business, civil education, journalism, advocacy and organizing, adult literacy, or vocational skills; community-based grassroots projects; projects suitable to the development of small-scale private enterprise; projects that are related to agricultural and rural development that promote independent activity; microfinancing projects, except for loans, extensions of credit, or other financing prohibited by § 515.208; and projects to meet basic human needs.
Example to § 515.575(b):
A U.S. group of medical professionals that specializes in disease treatment wishes to support a community in Cuba by providing the latest techniques and literature in disease education and prevention directly to the Cuban people. Provided that the medical professionals in the group maintain a full-time schedule related to disease education and prevention, these activities qualify for the general license.
(c) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.
(d) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(e) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to humanitarian projects that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to humanitarian projects that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
[[80 FR 2300, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56924, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 4586, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 13994, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.576   Activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes.

(a) General license. The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to activities by private foundations or research or educational institutes with an established interest in international relations to collect information related to Cuba for noncommercial purposes are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
General license.
The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to activities by private foundations or research or educational institutes with an established interest in international relations to collect information related to Cuba for noncommercial purposes are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.
Example to § 515.576(
a
):
A private research foundation that produces essays on international relations issues wishes to send a team made up of its employees and consultants to Cuba to collect information for a current study of the relationship that countries in the Western Hemisphere have with European countries. Provided that all of the employees and consultants on the team maintain a full-time schedule of activities relating to the collection of information for the study, these activities qualify for the general license.
Note to § 515.576(
a
):
Each person relying on the general authorization in this paragraph must retain specific records related to the authorized travel transactions. See §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter for applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(b) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.
(c) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
(d) Certain travel-related transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
Certain travel-related transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.
(e) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.
[[80 FR 2300, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.577   Authorized transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to publishing.

(a) To the extent that such activities are not exempt from this part, and subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of manuscripts, books, journals, and newspapers in paper or electronic format (collectively, “written publications”). This section does not apply if the parties to the transactions described in this paragraph include the Government of Cuba. For the purposes of this section, the term “Government of Cuba” includes the state and the Government of Cuba, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Cuba; prohibited officials of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337 of this part; prohibited members of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338 of this part; employees of the Ministry of Justice; and any person acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of any of the foregoing with respect to the transactions described in this paragraph. For the purposes of this section, the term “Government of Cuba” does not include any academic and research institutions and their personnel. Pursuant to this section, the following activities are authorized, provided that persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States ensure that they are not engaging, without separate authorization, in the activities identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section:
(1) Commissioning and making advance payments for identifiable written publications not yet in existence, to the extent consistent with industry practice;
(2) Collaborating on the creation and enhancement of written publications;
(3)(i) Augmenting written publications through the addition of items such as photographs, artwork, translation, explanatory text, and, for a written publication in electronic format, the addition of embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching the written publication;
(ii) Exporting embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching a written publication in electronic format, provided that, to the extent a license is required under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (the “EAR”), the exportation is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce under the provisions of the EAR;
(4) Substantive editing of written publications;
(5) Payment of royalties for written publications;
(6) Creating or undertaking a marketing campaign to promote a written publication; and
(7) Other transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in this paragraph (a).
(b) This section does not authorize transactions involving the provision of goods or services not necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in paragraph (a) of this section. For example, this section does not authorize persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States:
(1) To provide or receive individualized or customized services (including, but not limited to, accounting, legal, design, or consulting services), other than those necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications, even though such individualized or customized services are delivered through the use of information and informational materials;
(2) To create or undertake for any person a marketing campaign with respect to any service or product other than a written publication, or to create or undertake a marketing campaign of any kind for the benefit of the Government of Cuba;
(3) To engage in the exportation or importation of goods to or from Cuba other than the exportation of embedded software described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section;
(4) To operate a publishing house, sales outlet, or other office in Cuba; or
(5) To engage in transactions related to travel to, from, or within Cuba.
Note to paragraph (
b
):
The importation from Cuba and the exportation to Cuba of information or informational materials, as defined in § 515.332, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions and regulations of this part. See § 515.206(a).
(c) This section does not authorize persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to engage the services of publishing houses or translators in Cuba unless such activity is primarily for the dissemination of written publications in Cuba.
(d) This section does not authorize:
(1) Transactions for the development, production, or design of software;
(2) Transactions for the development, production, design, or marketing of technology specifically controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 (the “ITAR”), the EAR, or the Department of Energy Regulations set forth at 10 CFR part 810.
(3) The exportation of information or technology subject to the authorization requirements of 10 CFR part 810, or Restricted Data as defined in section 11 y. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or of other information, data, or technology the release of which is controlled under the Atomic Energy Act and regulations therein;
(4) The exportation of any item (including information) subject to the EAR where a U.S. person knows or has reason to know that the item will be used, directly or indirectly, with respect to certain nuclear, missile, chemical, or biological weapons or nuclear-maritime end-uses as set forth in part 744 of the EAR. In addition, U.S. persons are precluded from exporting any item subject to the EAR to certain restricted end-users, as set forth in part 744 of the EAR, as well as certain persons whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to parts 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce; or
(5) The exportation of information subject to licensing requirements under the ITAR, or exchanges of information that are subject to regulation by other government agencies.
(e) Section 515.564(a)(2) authorizes the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions that are directly incident to attendance at or organization of professional meetings that are necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications.
(f) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
[[72 FR 50048, Aug. 30, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 5077, Jan. 28, 2011; 81 FR 13994, Mar. 16, 2016; 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35091, June 9, 2022]]

§ 515.578   Exportation, reexportation, and importation of certain internet-based services; importation of software.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following transactions are authorized:
(1) Certain internet-based services. The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction to Cuba of the following services:
Certain internet-based services.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction to Cuba of the following services:
(i) Services incident to the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, web hosting provided that it is not for the promotion of tourism, domain name registration services, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming and e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services; and
(ii) Services to support the exchange of communications over the internet, such as software design, business consulting, information technology management services, and cloud-based services, to support services described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) Services related to certain exportations and reexportations. To the extent not authorized by § 515.533, the exportation or reexportation of services, including training, to install, repair, or replace items related to communications, or items used to develop software that improves the free flow of information or that will support private sector activities in Cuba consistent with the export or reexport licensing policy of the Department of Commerce, provided that any such item subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce for exportation or reexportation to Cuba.
Services related to certain exportations and reexportations.
To the extent not authorized by § 515.533, the exportation or reexportation of services, including training, to install, repair, or replace items related to communications, or items used to develop software that improves the free flow of information or that will support private sector activities in Cuba consistent with the export or reexport licensing policy of the Department of Commerce, provided that any such item subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce for exportation or reexportation to Cuba.
(3) Importation into the United States of certain items previously exported to Cuba. To the extent not authorized by § 515.533 or § 515.560, the importation into the United States of items described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by an individual entering the United States, directly or indirectly, from Cuba.
Importation into the United States of certain items previously exported to Cuba.
To the extent not authorized by § 515.533 or § 515.560, the importation into the United States of items described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section by an individual entering the United States, directly or indirectly, from Cuba.
(4) Exportation, reexportation, or provision of certain internet-based services to certain end-users. (i) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction, to a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, of services described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section provided that such services are widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
Exportation, reexportation, or provision of certain internet-based services to certain end-users.
(i) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction, to a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, of services described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section provided that such services are widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
(ii) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction, to organizations administered or controlled by the Government of Cuba or the Cuban Communist Party of the following services:
(A) Services described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and
(B) Services described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section provided that such services are widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
Note 1 to § 515.578(
a
):
The export or reexport to Cuba of items subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) may require separate authorization from the Department of Commerce.
Note 2 to § 515.578(
a
):
For an authorization of transactions related to the provision of telecommunications services, see § 515.542.
(b) This section does not authorize:
(1) The direct or indirect exportation or reexportation of services with knowledge or reason to know that such services are intended for a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338, or to organizations administered or controlled by the Government of Cuba or the Cuban Communist Party, except as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(2) The direct or indirect exportation of any items to Cuba.
Note 3 to § 515.578(
b
)(2):
For provisions related to transactions ordinarily incident to the exportation or reexportation of items, including software, to Cuba, see §§ 515.533 and 515.559.
(c) Licensing and marketing. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to enter into licensing agreements related to services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section, and to market such services.
Licensing and marketing.
Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to enter into licensing agreements related to services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section, and to market such services.
(d) Software. The importation into the United States, and the exportation or reexportation from the United States to third countries, of Cuban-origin software is authorized.
Software.
The importation into the United States, and the exportation or reexportation from the United States to third countries, of Cuban-origin software is authorized.
(e) Mobile applications. (1) The importation into the United States, and the exportation or reexportation from the United States to third countries, of Cuban-origin mobile applications is authorized.
Mobile applications.
(1) The importation into the United States, and the exportation or reexportation from the United States to third countries, of Cuban-origin mobile applications is authorized.
Note 4 to § 515.578(e)(1):
This paragraph (e)(1) does not authorize U.S.-owned or -controlled firms in third countries to import goods of Cuban origin into the authorized trade zone. See § 515.559.
(2) The employment of Cuban nationals to develop mobile applications is authorized.
(f) Certain direct financial transactions restricted. Nothing in paragraphs (d) or (e) authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Certain direct financial transactions restricted.
Nothing in paragraphs (d) or (e) authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
(g) Specific licenses. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation of other internet-based services.
Specific licenses.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation of other internet-based services.
Note to § 515.578:
For general licenses authorizing physical and business presence in Cuba for certain persons, see § 515.573. An authorization related to business presence was previously included in this section. For an authorization of certain telecommunications-related services, see § 515.542.
[[80 FR 2300, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56925, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 13994, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52004, Nov. 9, 2017; 89 FR 46325, May 29, 2024]]

§ 515.579   Funds transfers for third-country official missions and certain intergovernmental organizations.

(a) Depository institutions, as defined in § 515.333, are authorized to process funds transfers for the operating expenses or other official business in Cuba of third-country official missions or any intergovernmental organization in which the United States is a member or holds observer status.
(b) Depository institutions, as defined in § 515.333, are authorized to process funds transfers and maintain accounts for the personal expenditures of the employees, grantees, and contractors, or persons who share a common dwelling as a family member of such employees, grantees, and contractors, of third-country official missions or any intergovernmental organization in which the United States is a member or holds observer status in Cuba.
[[80 FR 2301, Jan. 16, 2015]]

§ 515.580   Global insurance policies covering individuals traveling to Cuba.

Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to issue or provide coverage for global health, life, or travel insurance policies for individuals ordinarily resident in a country outside of Cuba who travel to or within Cuba. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to service those policies and pay claims arising from events that occurred while the individual was traveling in, or to or from, Cuba.
Note to § 515.580:
Certain insurance-related services for persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction traveling to, from, or within Cuba are authorized pursuant to § 515.560. See Note 2 to § 515.560.
[[80 FR 2301, Jan. 16, 2015]]

§ 515.581   Transactions related to conferences in third countries.

Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to sponsor, organize, or provide services in connection with, as well as participate in, conferences or other similar events in a third country that are attended by Cuban nationals. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
Note to § 515.581:
The export or reexport to Cuba of technology subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) may require separate authorization from the Department of Commerce.
[[81 FR 71378, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 52004, Nov. 9, 2017]]

§ 515.582   Importation of certain goods and services produced by independent private sector entrepreneurs.

Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to engage in all transactions, including payments, necessary to import certain goods and services produced by independent private sector entrepreneurs, as defined in § 515.340. The list of goods and services eligible for importation under this section is located at https://www.state.gov/the-state-departments-section-515-582-list/.
https://www.state.gov/the-state-departments-section-515-582-list/
.
Note 1 to § 515.582:
Imports authorized by this section are not subject to the limitations set forth in § 515.560(c).
[[80 FR 2301, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56925, Sept. 21, 2015; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020; 89 FR 46325, May 29, 2024]]

§ 515.583   Provision of certain goods and services to Cuban nationals sequestered aboard vessels in U.S. ports.

The provision of goods and services ordinarily incident and necessary to the personal maintenance of Cuban nationals who are prohibited from disembarking from vessels in U.S. ports is authorized.
[[80 FR 2301, Jan. 16, 2015]]

§ 515.584   Certain financial transactions involving Cuba.

(a) Correspondent accounts. Depository institutions, as defined in § 515.333, are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to establish and maintain correspondent accounts at a financial institution that is a national of Cuba, provided that such accounts are used only for transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from, this part.
Correspondent accounts.
Depository institutions, as defined in § 515.333, are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to establish and maintain correspondent accounts at a financial institution that is a national of Cuba, provided that such accounts are used only for transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from, this part.
Note to § 515.584(
a
):
This section does not authorize the establishment and maintenance of accounts in the United States or with a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of, Cuba or a Cuban national.
(b) Testing arrangements. Depository institutions are authorized to set up testing arrangements and exchange authenticator keys with any financial institution that is a national of Cuba for transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from, this part.
Testing arrangements.
Depository institutions are authorized to set up testing arrangements and exchange authenticator keys with any financial institution that is a national of Cuba for transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from, this part.
(c) Credit and debit cards. All transactions incident to the processing and payment of credit and debit cards involving travel-related and other transactions consistent with § 515.560 are authorized.
Credit and debit cards.
All transactions incident to the processing and payment of credit and debit cards involving travel-related and other transactions consistent with § 515.560 are authorized.
(d) Funds transfers. Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to process funds transfers originating and terminating outside the United States, provided that neither the originator nor the beneficiary is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
Funds transfers.
Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to process funds transfers originating and terminating outside the United States, provided that neither the originator nor the beneficiary is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
(e) Unblocking of certain previously blocked funds transfers authorized. Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to unblock and return to the originator or originating financial institution or their successor-in-interest previously blocked funds transfers that could have been processed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, § 515.562(b), or § 515.579(b) if the processing of those transfers would have been authorized had they been sent under the current text of those provisions. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction unblocking funds transfers that were originally blocked on or after August 25, 1997, pursuant to this section must submit a report to the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, Attn: Sanctions Compliance & Evaluation Division, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220 within 10 business days from the date such funds transfers are released. Such reports shall include the following:
Unblocking of certain previously blocked funds transfers authorized.
Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to unblock and return to the originator or originating financial institution or their successor-in-interest previously blocked funds transfers that could have been processed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, § 515.562(b), or § 515.579(b) if the processing of those transfers would have been authorized had they been sent under the current text of those provisions. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction unblocking funds transfers that were originally blocked on or after August 25, 1997, pursuant to this section must submit a report to the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, Attn: Sanctions Compliance & Evaluation Division, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220 within 10 business days from the date such funds transfers are released. Such reports shall include the following:
(1) Where available, a copy of the original blocking report filed with OFAC pursuant to § 501.603(b)(1) of this chapter.
(2) The date the unblocked funds transfer was released;
(3) The amount of funds unblocked;
(4) The name of the party to whom the funds were released; and
(5) A reference to this section as the legal authority under which the funds transfer was unblocked and returned.
(f) Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to provide financing for exports or reexports of items, other than agricultural commodities, authorized pursuant to § 515.533, including issuing, advising, negotiating, paying, or confirming letters of credit (including letters of credit issued by a financial institution that is a national of Cuba), accepting collateral for issuing or confirming letters of credit, and processing documentary collections. With the exception of transactions related to exports or reexports of medicines or medical supplies, items associated with the provision of telecommunications and internet services for the Cuban people, or items associated with air and sea operations that support permissible travel, cargo, or trade, nothing in this paragraph authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.
(g) Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to accept, process, and give value to U.S. dollar monetary instruments presented for processing and payment by a banking institution located in a third country that is not a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction or a Cuban national and that has received the U.S. dollar monetary instruments from a financial institution that is a national of Cuba for which it maintains a correspondent account and which received the U.S. dollar monetary instruments in connection with an underlying transaction that is authorized, exempt, or otherwise not prohibited by this part, such as dollars spent in Cuba by authorized travelers or a third-country transaction that is not prohibited by this part.
Note to paragraph (
g
):
Correspondent accounts used for transactions authorized pursuant to § 515.584(g) may be denominated in U.S. dollars.
(h)(1) Opening and maintaining bank accounts for certain Cuban nationals. Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to open and maintain accounts solely in the name of a Cuban national located in Cuba for the purposes only of receiving payments in the United States in connection with transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from the prohibitions of, this part and remitting such payments to Cuba.
Opening and maintaining bank accounts for certain Cuban nationals.
Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to open and maintain accounts solely in the name of a Cuban national located in Cuba for the purposes only of receiving payments in the United States in connection with transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from the prohibitions of, this part and remitting such payments to Cuba.
(2) Any banking institution, as defined in § 515.314, that is a person subject to U.S. jurisdiction is authorized to open and maintain accounts solely in the name of a Cuban national who is an independent private sector entrepreneur, as defined in § 515.340, for the purposes of conducting transactions authorized pursuant to, or exempt from the prohibitions of, this part.
[[80 FR 2301, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56925, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 4586, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 13994, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71378, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52004, Nov. 9, 2017; 84 FR 47123, Sept. 9, 2019; 89 FR 46325, May 29, 2024]]

§ 515.585   Certain transactions in third countries.

(a) Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to provide goods and services to a Cuban national located in a third country who is an individual, provided that the transaction does not involve a commercial exportation, directly or indirectly, of goods or services to or from Cuba.
(b)(1) Opening and maintaining bank accounts. Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, are authorized to open and maintain accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, for a Cuban national located in a third country who is an individual, provided that such accounts are used only while the Cuban national is located outside of Cuba and may not be used for transactions that involve a commercial exportation of goods or services to or from Cuba.
Opening and maintaining bank accounts.
Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, are authorized to open and maintain accounts, including the deposit of funds in such accounts by wire transfer, for a Cuban national located in a third country who is an individual, provided that such accounts are used only while the Cuban national is located outside of Cuba and may not be used for transactions that involve a commercial exportation of goods or services to or from Cuba.
(2) Closing bank accounts. Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, are authorized to close an account opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
Closing bank accounts.
Banking institutions, as defined in § 515.314, are authorized to close an account opened pursuant to the authorization in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) Individuals who are persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction who are present in a third country are authorized to purchase or acquire merchandise subject to the prohibitions in § 515.204, including Cuban-origin goods, and to receive or obtain services in which Cuba or a Cuban national has an interest that are ordinarily incident to travel and maintenance within that country.
(d) Individuals who are persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to import into the United States as accompanied baggage merchandise subject to the prohibitions in § 515.204, including Cuban-origin goods, that is purchased or acquired in a third country, provided that the merchandise is imported for personal use only. This paragraph does not apply to the importation into the United States of Cuban-origin alcohol or tobacco products.
Note 1 to § 515.585:
This section does not authorize U.S.-owned or -controlled firms in third countries to export to Cuba commodities produced in the authorized trade territory. See § 515.559.
Note 2 to § 515.585:
This section does not authorize U.S.-owned or -controlled firms in third countries to reexport to Cuba U.S.-origin items. See § 515.533.
Note 3 to § 515.585:
Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, this section does not authorize any transactions prohibited by § 515.204.
Note 4 to § 515.585:
The export or reexport to Cuba of goods (including software) or technology subject to the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) may require separate authorization from the Department of Commerce.
[[80 FR 2302, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56926, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 13994, Mar. 16, 2016; 81 FR 71378, Oct. 17, 2016; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]]

§ 515.586   Cuban official missions in the United States.

(a) The provision of goods or services in the United States to the official missions of the Government of Cuba to the United States and to international organizations in the United States and payment for such goods or services are authorized, provided that:
(1) The goods or services are for the conduct of the official business of the missions, or for personal use of the employees, or persons who share a common dwelling as a family member of such an employee, of the missions, and are not for resale;
(2) The transaction does not involve the purchase, sale, financing, or refinancing of real property; and
(3) The transaction is not otherwise prohibited by law.
(b) The provision of goods or services in the United States to the employees, or persons who share a common dwelling as a family member of such an employee, of the official missions of the Government of Cuba to the United States and to international organizations in the United States and payment for such goods or services are authorized, provided that:
(1) The goods or services are for personal use of the employees, or persons who share a common dwelling as a family member of such an employee, of the missions, and are not for resale; and
(2) The transaction is not otherwise prohibited by law.
(c) Depository institutions, as defined in § 515.333, are authorized to operate accounts for, extend credit to, and process funds transfers on behalf of the official missions of the Government of Cuba to the United States, and the official missions of the Government of Cuba to international organizations in the United States, and employees thereof, subject to the limitations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and provided that any depository institution making use of the authorization in this section must submit a report to the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, Attn: Sanctions Compliance & Evaluation Division, 1500 Pennsylvania Ave NW., Annex, Washington, DC 20220, no later than 30 days following the establishment of the account. Such report shall include the name and address of the depository institution, the name of the account holder, and the account number.
[[80 FR 2302, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56926, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.587   Remittances from Cuban nationals to persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction.

Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction are authorized to receive remittances in the United States from Cuban nationals, wherever located, provided that the remitter is not a prohibited official of the Government of Cuba, as defined in § 515.337, or a prohibited member of the Cuban Communist Party, as defined in § 515.338. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes a transaction relating to the collection, forwarding, or receipt of remittances involving any entity or subentity identified on the Cuba Restricted List, as published in the Federal Register and maintained by the State Department and available at https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/.
Federal Register
and maintained by the State Department and available at
https://www.state.gov/cuba-sanctions/cuba-restricted-list/.
Note to § 515.587:
See § 515.572 for an authorization to provide services related to the receipt of remittances authorized by this section.
[[80 FR 56926, Sept. 21, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 67989, Oct. 27, 2020]]

§ 515.588   Certain Cuban legal services authorized.

(a) All transactions, including payments, ordinarily incident to receipt of the following legal services from Cuba or from a Cuban national are authorized: legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of Cuba or any jurisdiction within Cuba, provided that such advice and counseling relate to transactions authorized by or exempt from the prohibitions of this part.
(b) The receipt of any other legal services from Cuba or a Cuban national, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
[[80 FR 56926, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.589   Authorization of emergency medical services.

The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to Cuban nationals is authorized.
[[80 FR 56926, Sept. 21, 2015]]

§ 515.590   Certain grants, scholarships, and awards.

The provision of grants, scholarships, or awards relating to the following activities to a Cuban national or in which Cuba or a Cuban national otherwise has an interest is authorized, provided that nothing in this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209:
(a) Educational activities;
(b) Humanitarian projects, as set forth in § 515.575(b);
(c) Scientific research; and
(d) Religious activities.
[[81 FR 71378, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 52004, Nov. 9, 2017]]

§ 515.591   Services related to infrastructure.

Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized to provide to Cuba or Cuban nationals services related to developing, repairing, maintaining, and enhancing Cuban infrastructure that directly benefit the Cuban people, provided that those services are consistent with the export or reexport licensing policy of the Department of Commerce. For the purposes of this section, infrastructure means systems and assets used to provide the Cuban people with goods and services produced or provided by the public transportation, water management, waste management, non-nuclear electricity generation, and electricity distribution sectors, as well as hospitals, public housing, and primary and secondary schools. This authorization includes projects related to the environmental protection of U.S., Cuban, and international air quality, waters, and coastlines.
Note 1 to § 515.591:
For provisions related to transactions ordinarily incident to the exportation or reexportation of items to Cuba, see §§ 515.533 and 515.559. See § 746.2(b) of the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) for the Department of Commerce's Cuba licensing policy.
Note 2 to § 515.591:
See § 515.564 for a general license authorizing travel-related and other transactions incident to professional research and professional meetings in Cuba, § 515.533(c) for a general license authorizing travel-related and other transactions relating to certain exports and reexports to Cuba, and § 515.575(a) for a general license authorizing transactions, including travel-related transactions, related to certain humanitarian projects.
[[81 FR 71378, Oct. 17, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35091, June 9, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 515.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to records and reports, see subpart C of part 501 of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45106, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart G—Penalties

[Source:63 FR 10331, Mar. 3, 1998, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
63 FR 10331, Mar. 3, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

§ 515.701   Penalties.

For provisions relating to penalties, see part 501, subpart D, of this chapter.
[[68 FR 53657, Sept. 11, 2003]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 515.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45106, Aug. 25, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 53657, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 515.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action under § 515.201 which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Proclamation 3447 or the Trading With the Enemy Act may be taken by the Director, Office of Foreign Assets Control, or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[28 FR 6974, July 9, 1963. Redesignated at 62 FR 45106, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart I—Miscellaneous Provisions


§ 515.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

Collection of information on TDF 90-22.39, “Declaration, Travel to Cuba,” has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3507(j)) and assigned control number 1505-0118. For approval by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, to licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and to other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
[[62 FR 45106, Aug. 25, 1997]]

PART 525—BURMA SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended); E.O. 14014, 86 FR 9429, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 514.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended); E.O. 14014, 86 FR 9429, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 514.
[Source:89 FR 89483, Nov. 13, 2024, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
89 FR 89483, Nov. 13, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 525.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures, which applies to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 525.102   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

§ 525.103   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 525.104   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

§ 525.105   [Reserved]


§ 525.106   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 14014 of February 10, 2021 and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 525.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) E.O. 14014. All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
E.O. 14014.
All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To operate in the defense sector of the Burmese economy, the jet fuel sector of the Burmese economy, or any other sector of the Burmese economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(ii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Burma;
(B) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Burma;
(C) Actions or policies that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedom of expression or assembly by people in Burma, or that limit access to print, online, or broadcast media in Burma; or
(D) The arbitrary detention or torture of any person in Burma or other serious human rights abuse in Burma;
(iii) To be or have been a leader or official of:
(A) The military or security forces of Burma, or any successor entity to any of the foregoing;
(B) The Government of Burma on or after February 2, 2021;
(C) An entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section relating to the leader's or official's tenure; or
(D) An entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1) as a result of activities related to the leader's or official's tenure;
(iv) To be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of Burma;
(v) To be a spouse or adult child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1);
(vi) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1); or
(vii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the military or security forces of Burma or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, rulings, instructions, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after February 10, 2021, pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14014 of February 10, 2021, are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 525.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 14014, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 14014: “[BURMA-EO14014]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14014: using the identifier formulation “BURMA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov/sanctions-list-service. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. See § 525.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 14014: “[BURMA-EO14014]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14014: using the identifier formulation “BURMA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov/sanctions-list-service.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
See
§ 525.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 525.201.
Section 203 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in Note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 14014 “[BPI-BURMA]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14014: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-BURMA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 14014 “[BPI-BURMA]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14014: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-BURMA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 525.201.
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 525.201.
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant this section.

§ 525.202   Prohibited transactions related to financial services to or for the benefit of Myanma Oil and Gas Enterprise (MOGE) (Directive 1).

The following activities by a U.S. person are prohibited on or after December 15, 2023: The provision, exportation, or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of financial services to or for the benefit of the Myanma Oil and Gas Enterprise (MOGE) or its property or interests in property.

§ 525.203   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 525.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 525.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or other authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 525.201.

§ 525.204   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 525.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 525.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 525.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 525.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 525.205   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 525.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 525.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 525.206   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 525.207   Exempt transactions.

International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
Note 1 to § 525.207.
See §§ 525.512 and 525.513 for general licenses related to humanitarian assistance.
See
§§ 525.512 and 525.513 for general licenses related to humanitarian assistance.
Note 2 to § 525.207.
See § 525.510 and § 525.511 for general licenses authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government and certain international organizations and entities, respectively.
See
§ 525.510 and § 525.511 for general licenses authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government and certain international organizations and entities, respectively.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 525.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 525.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 525.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 525.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 525.301.
See § 525.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.
See
§ 525.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.

§ 525.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked;
(2) With respect to transactions prohibited by § 525.202, December 15, 2023.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 525.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 525.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 525.305   Financial services.

The term financial services, as used in § 525.202, includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.
financial services,
as used in § 525.202, includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.

§ 525.306   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any person that is not a U.S. person.
foreign person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.

§ 525.307   Government of Burma.

The term Government of Burma means the Government of Burma, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Myanmar, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Burma.
Government of Burma
means the Government of Burma, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Myanmar, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Burma.

§ 525.308   [Reserved]


§ 525.309   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 525.310   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
Note 1 to § 525.310.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 525.311   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 525.312   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 525.313   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 525.314   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 525.315   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 525.316   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 525.317   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 525.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise specified.

§ 525.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 525.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 525.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 525.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 525.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.

§ 525.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 525.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 525.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.
Note 1 to § 525.405.
See §§ 525.507 and 525.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 525.507 and 525.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 525.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 525.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 525.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 525.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 525.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 525.407.
See also § 525.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 525.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 525.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 525.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 525.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.

§ 525.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 525.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 525.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

§ 525.412   Entities of which one or more blocked persons is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.

(a) The property and interests in property of an entity, including any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of a governmental entity, are not blocked solely because one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201 is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.
Note 1 to paragraph
(a)
.
See § 525.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.
See
§ 525.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized or exempt pursuant to this part, engage in the following transactions with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201: enter into contracts that are signed by a blocked person, enter into negotiations with a blocked person, or process transactions, directly or indirectly, on behalf of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201. However, U.S. persons are not prohibited from engaging in a routine interaction with an agency in which a blocked person is an official, but which does not involve the blocked person directly or indirectly.
Note 2 to § 525.412.
OFAC encourages U.S. persons to be cautious in engaging in transactions with any entity of which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201 is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control to ensure that U.S. persons are not engaged in transactions, directly or indirectly, with a blocked person, except as authorized or exempt pursuant to this part.

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 525.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Burma sanctions page on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
https://ofac.treasury.gov.

§ 525.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 525.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 525.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 525.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 525.204 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 525.204 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 525.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 525.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 525.204, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 525.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201.

§ 525.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 525.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 525.404.
See
§ 525.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 525.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 525.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 525.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 525.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 525.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 525.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 525.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for 10 years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for 10 years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.

§ 525.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 525.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 525.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.

§ 525.512   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 525.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 525.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
agricultural commodities, medicine,
and
medical devices
are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section,
agricultural commodities
are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section,
medicine
is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a
medical device
is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 525.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart F [Reserved]


Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 525.701   Penalties.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA) are applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
et seq.
) (IEEPA) are applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation in this part, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any regulation in this part, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note; Pub. L. 101-410, as amended).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[89 FR 89483, Nov. 13, 2024, as amended at 90 FR 3690, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 525.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 525.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.

§ 525.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 525.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq);
et seq
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations in this part did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations in this part did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph
(c)(2)
.
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

PART 526—HOSTAGES AND WRONGFUL DETENTION SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 1741 et seq.; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14078, 87 FR 43389, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 407.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 1741
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14078, 87 FR 43389, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 407.
[Source:88 FR 44054, July 11, 2023, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
88 FR 44054, July 11, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 526.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 526.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, to have directly or indirectly engaged in, or to be responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the hostage-taking of a United States national or the wrongful detention of a United States national abroad;
(ii) To have attempted to engage in any activity described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; or
(iii) To be or have been a leader or official of an entity that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section relating to the leader's or official's tenure;
(2) Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General:
(i) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(A) Any activity described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; or
(B) Any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section;
(ii) To be owned, controlled, or directed by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section; or
(iii) To have attempted to engage in any activity described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(b) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, rulings, instructions, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(d) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after July 19, 2022, pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14078 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 526.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 14078, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 14078 “[HOSTAGES-EO14078]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14078: using the identifier formulation “[HOSTAGES-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. See § 526.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 14078 “[HOSTAGES-EO14078]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14078: using the identifier formulation “[HOSTAGES-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
See
§ 526.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 526.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 14078 “[BPI-HOSTAGES-EO14078]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14078: “[BPI-HOSTAGES-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 14078 “[BPI-HOSTAGES-EO14078]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14078: “[BPI-HOSTAGES-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 526.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 526.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[88 FR 44054, July 11, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 75958, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 526.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 526.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 526.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or other authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 526.201.

§ 526.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 526.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 526.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 526.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 526.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 526.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 526.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 526.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 526.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 526.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
(b) Official business. The prohibitions contained in § 526.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 526.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 526.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 526.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 526.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 526.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 526.301.
See § 526.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.
See
§ 526.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.

§ 526.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 526.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 526.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. Technologies as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods.
Technologies
as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 526.305   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States, provided such individual does not reside in the United States) or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States.
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States, provided such individual does not reside in the United States) or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States.

§ 526.306   Hostage-taking.

The term hostage-taking has the same meaning as provided in Presidential Policy Directive 30 of June 24, 2015 (“U.S. Nationals Taken Hostage Abroad and Personnel Recovery Efforts”), which is the unlawful abduction or holding of a person or persons against their will in order to compel a third person or governmental organization to do or to abstain from doing any act as a condition for the release of the person detained.
hostage-taking
has the same meaning as provided in Presidential Policy Directive 30 of June 24, 2015 (“U.S. Nationals Taken Hostage Abroad and Personnel Recovery Efforts”), which is the unlawful abduction or holding of a person or persons against their will in order to compel a third person or governmental organization to do or to abstain from doing any act as a condition for the release of the person detained.

§ 526.307   [Reserved]


§ 526.308   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 526.309   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 526.309.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 526.310   Noncitizen.

The term noncitizen means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States.
noncitizen
means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States.

§ 526.311   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 526.312   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 526.313   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 526.314   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 526.315   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 526.316   United States national.

The term United States national means a “national of the United States” as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22) or 8 U.S.C. 1408, or a lawful permanent resident with significant ties to the United States.
United States national
means a “national of the United States” as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22) or 8 U.S.C. 1408, or a lawful permanent resident with significant ties to the United States.

§ 526.317   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 526.318   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 526.319   Wrongful detention.

The term wrongful detention means a detention that the Secretary of State has determined to be wrongful consistent with section 302(a) of the Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-taking Accountability Act (22 U.S.C. 1741 et seq.).
wrongful detention
means a detention that the Secretary of State has determined to be wrongful consistent with section 302(a) of the Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-taking Accountability Act (22 U.S.C. 1741
et seq.
).

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 526.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 526.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 526.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 526.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 526.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 526.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.

§ 526.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 526.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 526.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.
Note 1 to § 526.405.
See §§ 526.507 and 526.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 526.507 and 526.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 526.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 526.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 526.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 526.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 526.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 526.407.
See also § 526.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 526.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 526.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 526.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 526.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.

§ 526.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 526.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 526.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 526.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Hostages and Wrongfully Detained U.S. Nationals Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.

§ 526.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 526.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 526.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 526.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 526.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 526.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 526.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 526.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 526.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 526.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201.

§ 526.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 526.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 526.404.
See
§ 526.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 526.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 526.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 526.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 526.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 526.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 526.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 526.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[88 FR 44054, July 11, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 103642, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 526.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 526.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 526.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.

§ 526.512   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.

§ 526.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
agricultural commodities, medicine,
and
medical devices
are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section,
agricultural commodities
are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section,
medicine
is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a
medical device
is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

Subpart F—Reports


§ 526.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 526.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation in this part, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $365,843 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any regulation in this part, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[88 FR 44054, July 11, 2023, as amended at 90 FR 3690, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 526.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 526.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.

§ 526.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

§ 526.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations in this part did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations in this part did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (c)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 526.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 526.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 14078 of July 19, 2022, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 526.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 528—INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended); E.O. 14203, 90 FR 9369.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended); E.O. 14203, 90 FR 9369.
[Source:90 FR 28013, July 1, 2025, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
90 FR 28013, July 1, 2025, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Provisions


§ 528.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 528.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive guidance and definitions, general licenses, and other regulatory provisions.

§ 528.102   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

§ 528.103   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 528.104   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

§ 528.105   [Reserved]


§ 528.106   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 14203 of February 6, 2025, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 528.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to E.O. 14203 of February 6, 2025 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14203 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 528.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 14203, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: for E.O. 14203: “[ICC-EO14203]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14203, using the identifier formulation “[ICC-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 528.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: for E.O. 14203: “[ICC-EO14203]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14203, using the identifier formulation “[ICC-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 528.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 528.201:
Section 203 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section also are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: for E.O. 14203: “[BPI-ICC-EO14203]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14203, using the identifier formulation “[BPI-ICC-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section also are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: for E.O. 14203: “[BPI-ICC-EO14203]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14203, using the identifier formulation “[BPI-ICC-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 528.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC at https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC at
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 528.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.

§ 528.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 528.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 528.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or other authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 528.201.

§ 528.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 528.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 528.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 528.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 528.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 528.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 528.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 528.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 528.205   Exempt transactions.

(a) International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
(b) Official business. The prohibitions contained in § 528.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 528.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Note 1 to 528.205:
See § 528.509 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States government not otherwise exempt.
See
§ 528.509 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States government not otherwise exempt.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 528.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 528.301   Alien.

The term alien has the meanings given to the term in section 101(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3)).
alien
has the meanings given to the term in section 101(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3)).

§ 528.302   Ally of the United States.

The term ally of the United States means:
ally of the United States
means:
(a) A government of a member country of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO); or
(b) A government of a “major non-NATO ally,” as that term is defined by section 2013(7) of the American Servicemembers' Protection Act of 2002 (22 U.S.C. 7432(7)).

§ 528.303   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 528.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 528.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 528.303:
See § 528.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201.
See
§ 528.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201.

§ 528.304   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person listed in the Annex to E.O. 14203, 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time, February 12, 2025.
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 528.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 528.305   Entity.

The term entity means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 528.306   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 528.307   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means a person that is not a United States person.
foreign person
means a person that is not a United States person.

§ 528.308   Immediate family member.

The term immediate family member means a spouse or child.
immediate family member
means a spouse or child.

§ 528.309   [Reserved]


§ 528.310   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 528.311   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
Note 1 to § 528.311:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 528.312   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 528.313   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 528.314   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 528.315   Protected person.

The term protected person means:
protected person
means:
(a) Any United States person, unless the United States provides formal consent to International Criminal Court (ICC) jurisdiction over that person or becomes a state party to the Rome Statute, including:
(1) Current or former members of the Armed Forces of the United States;
(2) Current or former elected or appointed officials of the United States Government; and
(3) Any other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of the United States Government; and
(b) Any foreign person that is a citizen or lawful resident of an ally of the United States that has not consented to ICC jurisdiction over that person or is not a state party to the Rome Statute, including:
(1) Current or former members of the armed forces of such ally of the United States;
(2) Current or former elected or appointed government officials of such ally of the United States; and
(3) Any other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of a government of an ally of the United States.

§ 528.316   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 528.317   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 528.318   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including a foreign branch, subsidiary, or employee of such entity), or any person lawfully in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including a foreign branch, subsidiary, or employee of such entity), or any person lawfully in the United States.

§ 528.319   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 528.401   [Reserved]


§ 528.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 528.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 528.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 528.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 528.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 528.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 528.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 528.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 528.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the International Criminal Court-Related sanctions page on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
https://ofac.treasury.gov.

§ 528.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 528.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 528.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 528.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 528.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 528.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 528.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 528.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 528.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 528.404.
See
§ 528.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 528.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 528.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 528.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 528.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 528.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 528.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 528.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with § 501.601 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with § 501.601 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
(3) These records must be furnished to OFAC on demand consistent with § 501.602 of this chapter.

§ 528.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 528.509   Official business of the United States government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 528.510   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
agricultural commodities, medicine,
and
medical devices
are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section,
agricultural commodities
are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section,
medicine
is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a
medical device
is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 528.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart F [Reserved]


Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 528.701   Penalties.

Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705.) (IEEPA) provides for the imposition of civil and criminal penalties applicable to violations of the provisions of this part. With respect to civil penalties, these are adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note, Pub. L. 101-410, as amended). With respect to criminal penalties, a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets the commission of a violation of a provision of this party may be subject to the criminal penalties provided in section 206(c) of IEEPA, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.

§ 528.702   Findings of Violation and enforcement.

OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Appendix A to Part 528—E.O. 14203 of February 6, 2025

Imposing Sanctions on the International Criminal Court
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the International Criminal Court (ICC), as established by the Rome Statute, has engaged in illegitimate and baseless actions targeting America and our close ally Israel. The ICC has, without a legitimate basis, asserted jurisdiction over and opened preliminary investigations concerning personnel of the United States and certain of its allies, including Israel, and has further abused its power by issuing baseless arrest warrants targeting Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Former Minister of Defense Yoav Gallant. The ICC has no jurisdiction over the United States or Israel, as neither country is party to the Rome Statute or a member of the ICC. Neither country has ever recognized the ICC's jurisdiction, and both nations are thriving democracies with militaries that strictly adhere to the laws of war. The ICC's recent actions against Israel and the United States set a dangerous precedent, directly endangering current and former United States personnel, including active service members of the Armed Forces, by exposing them to harassment, abuse, and possible arrest. This malign conduct in turn threatens to infringe upon the sovereignty of the United States and undermines the critical national security and foreign policy work of the United States Government and our allies, including Israel. Furthermore, in 2002, the Congress enacted the American Servicemembers' Protection Act of 2002 (22 U.S.C. 7421 et seq.) to protect United States military personnel, United States officials, and officials and military personnel of certain allied countries against criminal prosecution by an international criminal court to which the United States is not party, stating, “In addition to exposing members of the Armed Forces of the United States to the risk of international criminal prosecution, the Rome Statute creates a risk that the President and other senior elected and appointed officials of the United States Government may be prosecuted by the International Criminal Court.” (22 U.S.C. 7421(9)).
et seq.
) to protect United States military personnel, United States officials, and officials and military personnel of certain allied countries against criminal prosecution by an international criminal court to which the United States is not party, stating, “In addition to exposing members of the Armed Forces of the United States to the risk of international criminal prosecution, the Rome Statute creates a risk that the President and other senior elected and appointed officials of the United States Government may be prosecuted by the International Criminal Court.” (22 U.S.C. 7421(9)).
The United States unequivocally opposes and expects our allies to oppose any ICC actions against the United States, Israel, or any other ally of the United States that has not consented to ICC jurisdiction. The United States remains committed to accountability and to the peaceful cultivation of international order, but the ICC and parties to the Rome Statute must respect the decisions of the United States and other countries not to subject their personnel to the ICC's jurisdiction, consistent with their respective sovereign prerogatives.
The United States will impose tangible and significant consequences on those responsible for the ICC's transgressions, some of which may include the blocking of property and assets, as well as the suspension of entry into the United States of ICC officials, employees, and agents, as well as their immediate family members, as their entry into our Nation would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.
I therefore determine that any effort by the ICC to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute protected persons, as defined in section 8(d) of this order, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, and I hereby declare a national emergency to address that threat. I hereby determine and order:
Section 1. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) the person listed in the Annex to this order; and
(ii) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General:
(A) to have directly engaged in any effort by the ICC to investigate, arrest, detain, or prosecute a protected person without consent of that person's country of nationality;
(B) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section or any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(C) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to address the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 2.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to address the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 3. The prohibitions in section 1(a) of this order include:
Sec. 3.
The prohibitions in section 1(a) of this order include:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 4. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order, as well as immediate family members of such aliens, or aliens determined by the Secretary of State to be employed by, or acting as an agent of, the ICC, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the entry of the person into the United States would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of State shall consult with the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary of State has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693.
Sec. 4.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order, as well as immediate family members of such aliens, or aliens determined by the Secretary of State to be employed by, or acting as an agent of, the ICC, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the entry of the person into the United States would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of State shall consult with the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary of State has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693.
Sec. 5. Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the President a report on additional persons that should be included within the scope of section 1 of this order.
Sec. 5.
Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the President a report on additional persons that should be included within the scope of section 1 of this order.
Sec. 6. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 7. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 7.
Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 8. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 8.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including a foreign branch, subsidiary, or employee of such entity), or any person lawfully in the United States;
(d) the term “protected person” means:
(i) any United States person, unless the United States provides formal consent to ICC jurisdiction over that person or becomes a state party to the Rome Statute, including:
(A) current or former members of the Armed Forces of the United States;
(B) current or former elected or appointed officials of the United States Government; and
(C) any other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of the United States Government; and
(ii) any foreign person that is a citizen or lawful resident of an ally of the United States that has not consented to ICC jurisdiction over that person or is not a state party to the Rome Statute, including:
(A) current or former members of the armed forces of such ally of the United States;
(B) current or former elected or appointed government officials of such ally of the United States; and
(C) any other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of such a government;
(e) the term “ally of the United States” means:
(i) a government of a member country of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; or
(ii) a government of a “major non-NATO ally,” as that term is defined by section 2013(7) of the American Servicemembers' Protection Act of 2002 (22 U.S.C. 7432(7));
(f) the term “immediate family member” means a spouse or child;
(g) the term “alien” has the meanings given to the term in section 101(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(3)); and
(h) the term “foreign person” means a person that is not a United States person.
Sec. 9. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to section 1 of this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to section 1 of this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 11.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 12.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
DONALD J. TRUMP
THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 6, 2025.
Annex
1. Karim Khan, Prosecutor of the ICC.

PART 535—IRANIAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 2332d; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 457; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099, 3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p. 248; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685, 3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p. 253; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 104; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 109; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 110; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 112; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 113; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 114; E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 139.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 2332d; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 457; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099, 3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p. 248; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685, 3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p. 253; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 104; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 109; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 110; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 112; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 113; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 114; E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111, 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 139.
[Source:44 FR 65956, Nov. 15, 1979, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
44 FR 65956, Nov. 15, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 535.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to such parts shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by this part, nor shall any license or authorization issued pursuant to any other provision of law (except this part) be deemed to authorize any transaction so prohibited.
(b) No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction to the extent that it is prohibited by reason of the provisions of any law or any statute other than the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, as amended, or any proclamation order or regulation other than those contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
[[44 FR 65956, Nov. 15, 1979, as amended at 62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 535.201   Transactions involving property in which Iran or Iranian entities have an interest.

No property subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or which is in the possession of or control of persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States in which on or after the effective date Iran has any interest of any nature whatsoever may be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn or otherwise dealt in except as authorized.
[[45 FR 24432, Apr. 9, 1980]]

§ 535.202   Transactions with respect to securities registered or inscribed in the name of Iran.

Unless authorized by a license expressly referring to this section, the acquisition, transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on or otherwise dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) registered or inscribed in the name of any Iranian entity is prohibited irrespective of the fact that at any time (either prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner thereof may have, or appears to have, assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of any such security.

§ 535.203   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date which is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization thereunder and involves any property in which Iran has or has had an interest since such effective date is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power or privilege with respect to such property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or interest in, any property in which Iran has or has had an interest since the effective date unless the person with whom such property is held or maintained had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer prior to such effective date.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury before, during or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or render it enforceable to the same extent as it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and this part and any ruling, order, regulation, direction or instruction issued hereunder.
(d) Transfers of property which otherwise would be null and void, or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void, or unenforceable pursuant to such provisions, as to any person with whom such property was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property was held or maintained;
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization by or pursuant to the provision of this part and was not so licensed or authorized or if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) Promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license or other direction or authorization thereunder, or
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury, or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; the person with whom such property was held or maintained filed with the Treasury Department, Washington, D.C., a report in triplicate setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer. The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph shall not be deemed to be compliance or evidence of compliance with paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section.
(e) Unless licensed or authorized pursuant to this part any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which on or since the effective date there existed an interest of Iran.
(f) For the purpose of this section the term property includes gold, silver, bullion, currency, coin, credit, securities (as that term is defined in section 2(l) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), bills of exchange, notes, drafts, acceptances, checks, letters of credit, book credits, debts, claims, contracts, negotiable documents of title, mortgages, liens, annuities, insurance policies, options and futures in commodities, and evidences of any of the foregoing. The term property shall not, except to the extent indicated, be deemed to include chattels or real property.
property
includes gold, silver, bullion, currency, coin, credit, securities (as that term is defined in section 2(l) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), bills of exchange, notes, drafts, acceptances, checks, letters of credit, book credits, debts, claims, contracts, negotiable documents of title, mortgages, liens, annuities, insurance policies, options and futures in commodities, and evidences of any of the foregoing. The term
property
shall not, except to the extent indicated, be deemed to include chattels or real property.
[[44 FR 65956, Nov. 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 24432, Apr. 9, 1980]]

§ 535.208   Evasions; effective date.

(a) Any transaction for the purpose of, or which has the effect of, evading or avoiding any of the prohibitions set forth in this subpart is hereby prohibited.
(b) The term effective date means, with respect to transactions prohibited in § 535.201, 8:10 a.m. eastern standard time, November 14, 1979, and with respect to the transactions prohibited in §§ 535.206 and 535.207, 4:19 p.m. eastern standard time, April 7, 1980.
effective date
means, with respect to transactions prohibited in § 535.201, 8:10 a.m. eastern standard time, November 14, 1979, and with respect to the transactions prohibited in §§ 535.206 and 535.207, 4:19 p.m. eastern standard time, April 7, 1980.
(c) With respect to any amendments of the foregoing sections or any other amendments to this part the term “effective date” shall mean the date of filing with the Federal Register.
Federal Register.
[[45 FR 24433, Apr. 9, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 26940, Apr. 21, 1980]]

§ 535.210   Direction for establishing an escrow agreement.

(a) The Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the United States, is licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to enter into escrow and related agreements under which certain money and other assets shall be credited to escrow accounts by the Bank of England or the N.V. Settlement Bank of the Netherlands.
(b) The Federal Reserve Bank of New York is licensed, authorized, directed and compelled, as fiscal agent of the United States, to receive certain money and other assets in which Iran or its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities have an interest and to hold or transfer such money and other assets, and any earnings or interest payable thereon, in such manner and at such times as the Secretary of the Treasury deems necessary to fulfill the rights and obligations of the United States under the Declaration of the government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria dated January 19, 1981, and the Undertakings of the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Islamic Republic of Iran with respect to the Declaration of the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, and the escrow and related agreements described in paragraph (a) of this section. Such money and other assets may be invested, or not, at the discretion of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the United States.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14333, Feb. 26, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 42063, Aug. 19, 1981]]

§ 535.211   Direction involving transfers by the Federal Reserve Bank concerning certain Iranian property.

The Federal Reserve Bank of New York is licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer to its account at the Bank of England, and subsequently to transfer to accounts in the name of the Central Bank of Algeria as Escrow Agent at the Bank of England that are established pursuant to an escrow and related agreements approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, all gold bullion, together with all other assets in its custody (or the cash equivalent thereof), of Iran or its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities. Such transfers, and whatever further related transactions are deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be executed when and in the manner directed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14333, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.212   Direction to transfer property in which Iran or an Iranian entity has an interest by branches and offices of United States banks located outside the United States.

(a) Any branch or office of a United States bank or subsidiary thereof, which branch, office or subsidiary is located outside the territory of the United States, and which, on or after 8:10 a.m., e.s.t., on November 14, 1979:
(1) Has been or is in possession of funds or securities legally or beneficially owned by the Government of Iran or its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities, or
(2) Has carried or is carrying on its books deposits standing to the credit of or beneficially owned by such government, its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities, is licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer such funds, securities and deposits, held on January 19, 1981, including interest from November 14, 1979, at commercially reasonable rates, to the account of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the U.S., at the Bank of England, to be held or transferred as directed by the Secretary of the Treasury. The funds, securities and deposits described in this section shall be further transferred as provided for in the Declarations of the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria and the Undertakings of the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran with respect to the Declaration.
(b) Any banking institution subject to the jurisdiction of the United States that has executed a set-off on or after 8:10 a.m., e.s.t., November 14, 1979, against Iranian funds, securities or deposits referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is hereby licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to cancel such set-off and to transfer all funds, securities and deposits which have been subject to such set-off, including interest from November 14, 1979, at commercially reasonable rates, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14333, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.213   Direction involving property held by offices of banks in the United States in which Iran or an Iranian entity has an interest.

(a) Any branch or office of a bank, which branch or office is located within the United States and is, on the effective date of this section, either:
(1) In possession of funds or securities legally or beneficially owned by the Government of Iran or its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities, or
(2) Carrying on its books deposits standing to the credit of or beneficially owned by such government or its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities, is licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer such funds, securities and deposits, held on January 19, 1981, including interest from November 14, 1979, at commercially reasonable rates, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the U.S., to be held or transferred as directed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) Transfer of funds, securities or deposits under paragraph (a) of this section shall be in accordance with the provisions of § 535.221 of this part, and such funds, securities or deposits, plus interest at commercially reasonable rates from November 14, 1979, to the transfer date, shall be received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York by 11 a.m., E.D.T., July 10, 1981. For periods for which rates are to be determined in the future, whether by agreement between Iran and the bank or otherwise (see § 535.440), interest for such periods shall be transferred to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York promptly upon such determination. Such interest shall include interest at commercially reasonable rates from July 19, 1981, on the interest which would have accrued by July 19, 1981.
(c) Any funds, securities or deposits subject to a valid attachment, injunction or other like proceeding or process not affected by § 535.218 need not be transferred as otherwise required by this section.
(d) The transfers of securities required by this section shall be made notwithstanding § 535.202.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 26477, May 13, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 30341, June 8, 1981; 46 FR 35106, July 7, 1981; 48 FR 253, Jan. 4, 1983]]

§ 535.214   Direction involving other financial assets in which Iran or an Iranian entity has an interest held by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(a) Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States which is not a banking institution and is on January 19, 1981, in possession or control of funds or securities of Iran or its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities is licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer such funds or securities to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the U.S. to be held or transferred as directed by the Secretary of the Treasury. However, such funds and securities need not be transferred until any disputes (not relating to any attachment, injunction or similar order) as to the entitlement of Iran and its entities to them are resolved.
(b) Transfers of funds and securities under paragraph (a) of this section shall be in accordance with the provisions of § 535.221 of this part, and such funds and securities shall be received by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York by 11 a.m., E.D.T., July 10, 1981.
(c) Any funds, securities or deposits subject to a valid attachment, injunction or other like proceeding or process not affected by § 535.218 need not be transferred as otherwise required by this section.
(d) The transfers of securities required by this section shall be made notwithstanding § 535.202.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 26447, May 13, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 30341, June 8, 1981; 46 FR 35107, July 7, 1981]]

§ 535.215   Direction involving other properties in which Iran or an Iranian entity has an interest held by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, all persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States in possession or control of properties, as defined in § 535.333 of this part, not including funds and securities owned by Iran or its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities, are licensed, authorized, directed and compelled to transfer such properties held on January 18, 1981 as directed after that day by the Government of Iran, acting through its authorized agent. Such directions shall include arrangements for payment of the costs of transporting the properties, unless the possessors of the properties were required to pay such costs by contract or applicable law on January 19, 1981. Except where specifically stated, this license, authorization and direction does not relieve persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States from existing legal requirements other than those based upon the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
(b) Any properties subject to a valid attachment, injunction or other like proceeding or process not affected by § 535.218 need not be transferred as otherwise required by this section.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, including agencies, instrumentalities and entities controlled by the Government of Iran, who have possession, custody or control of blocked tangible property covered by § 535.201, shall not transfer such property without a specific Treasury license, if the export of such property requires a specific license or authorization pursuant to the provisions of any of the following acts, as amended, or regulations in force with respect to them: the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2403, et seq., the Aims Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2751, et seq., the Atomic Energy Act, 42 U.S.C. 2011, et seq., or any other act prohibiting the export of such property, except as licensed.
et seq.,
the Aims Export Control Act, 22 U.S.C. 2751,
et seq.,
the Atomic Energy Act, 42 U.S.C. 2011,
et seq.,
or any other act prohibiting the export of such property, except as licensed.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14334, Feb. 26, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 26477, May 13, 1981; 49 FR 21322, May 21, 1984; 66 FR 38554, July 25, 2001]]

§ 535.216   Prohibition against prosecution of certain claims.

(a) Persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are prohibited from prosecuting in any court within the United States or elsewhere, whether or not litigation was commenced before or after January 19, 1981, any claim against the Government of Iran arising out of events occurring before January 19, 1981 relating to:
(1) The seizure of the hostages on November 4, 1979;
(2) The subsequent detention of such hostages;
(3) Injury to United States property or property of United States nationals within the United States Embassy compound in Tehran after November 3, 1979; or
(4) Injury to United States nationals or their property as a result of popular movements in the course of the Islamic Revolution in Iran which were not an act of the Government of Iran.
(b) Any persons who are not United States nationals are prohibited from prosecuting any claim described in paragraph (a) of this section in any court within the United States.
(c) No further action, measure or process shall be taken after the effective date of this section in any judicial proceeding instituted before the effective date of this section which is based upon any claim described in paragraph (a) of this section, and all such proceedings shall be terminated.
(d) No judicial order issued in the course of the proceedings described in paragraph (c) of this section shall be enforced in any way.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14334, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.217   Blocking of property of the former Shah of Iran and of certain other Iranian nationals.

(a) For the purpose of protecting the rights of litigants in courts within the United States, all property and assets located in the United States in the control of the estate of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the former Shah of Iran, or any close relative of the former Shah served as a defendant in litigation in such courts brought by Iran seeking the return of property alleged to belong to Iran, is blocked as to each such estate or person, until all such litigation against such estate or person is finally terminated. This provision shall apply only to such estate or persons as to which Iran has furnished proof of service to the Office of Foreign Assets Control and which the Office has identified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) [No persons presently listed].
(c) The effective date of this section is January 19, 1981, except as otherwise specified after the name of a person identified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 26478, May 13, 1981, as amended at 61 FR 8216, Mar. 4, 1996; 61 FR 15382, Apr. 8, 1996]]

§ 535.218   Prohibitions and nullifications with respect to property described in §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215 and standby letters of credit.

(a) All licenses and authorizations for acquiring or exercising any right, power or privilege, by court order, attachment, or otherwise, including the license contained in § 535.504, with respect to the property described in §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215 are revoked and withdrawn.
(b) All rights, powers and privileges relating to the property described in §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215 and which derive from any attachment, injunction, other like proceedings or process, or other action in any litigation after November 14, 1979, at 8:10 a.m., e.s.t., including those derived from § 535.504, other than rights, powers and privileges of the Government of Iran and its agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities, whether acquired by court order or otherwise, are nullified, and all persons claiming any such right, power or privilege are hereafter barred from exercising the same.
(c) All persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are prohibited from acquiring or exercising any right, power or privilege, whether by court order or otherwise, with respect to property (and any income earned thereon) referred to in §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215.
(d) The prohibitions contained in paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities.
(e) Paragraph (a) of this section does not revoke or withdraw specific licenses authorizing the operation of blocked accounts which were issued prior to January 19, 1981, and which do not relate to litigation. Such licenses shall be deemed to be revoked as of May 31, 1981, unless extended by general or specific license issued subsequent to February 26, 1981.
(f) The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall apply to contested and contingent liabilities and property interests of the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities, including debts.
(g) All existing attachments on standby letters of credit, performance bonds and similar obligations and on substitute blocked accounts established under § 535.568 relating to standby letters of credit, performance bonds and similar obligations are nullified and all future attachments on them are hereafter prohibited. All rights, powers and privileges relating to such attachments are nullified and all persons hereafter are barred from asserting or exercising any rights, powers or privileges derived therefrom.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14334, Feb. 26, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 26477, May 13, 1981]]

§ 535.219   Discharge of obligation by compliance with this part.

Compliance with §§ 535.210, 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 and 535.215, or any other orders, regulations, instructions or directions issued pursuant to this part licensing, authorizing, directing or compelling the transfer of the assets described in those sections, shall, to the extent thereof, be a full acquittance and discharge for all purposes of the obligation of the person making the same. No person shall be held liable in any court for or with respect to anything done or omitted in good faith in connection with the administration of, or pursuant to and in reliance on, such orders, regulations, instructions or directions.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14334, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.220   Timing of transfers required by § 535.212.

Transfers required by § 535.212 to the account of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the U.S., at the Bank of England shall be executed no later than 6 a.m., e.s.t., January 20, 1981, when the banking institution had knowledge of the terms of Executive Order 12278 of January 19, 1981.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14335, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.221   Compliance with directive provisions.

(a) Transfers of deposits or funds required by §§ 535.213 and 535.214 of this part shall be effected by means of wire transfer to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for credit to the following accounts: with respect to transfers required by § 535.213, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the United States, Special Deposit Account A, and with respect to transfers required by § 535.214, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the United States, Special Deposit Account B.
(b) Securities to be transferred as required by §§ 535.213 and 535.214 of this part that are not presently registered in the name of Iran or an Iranian entity shall be delivered to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in fully transferable form (bearer or endorsed in blank), accompanied by all necessary transfer documentation, e.g., stock or bond powers or powers of attorney. All securities transferred, including those presently registered in the name of Iran or an Iranian entity, shall be accompanied by instructions to deposit such securities to the following accounts: with respect to transfers required by § 535.213, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the United States, Special Custody Account A, and with respect to transfers required by § 535.214, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as fiscal agent of the United States, Special Custody Account B.
(1) Securities which are in book-entry form shall be transferred by wire transfer to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to the appropriate account named in this paragraph.
(2) Definitive securities which are in bearer or registered form shall be hand delivered or forwarded by registered mail, insured, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Safekeeping Department, to the appropriate account named in this paragraph.
(c) If a security in which Iran or an Iranian entity has an interest is evidenced by a depositary receipt or other evidence of a security, the legal owner of such security shall arrange to have the security placed in fully transferable form (bearer or endorsed in blank) as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, and transferred pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(d) Any person delivering a security or securities to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under paragraph (b) of this section, shall provide the Bank at least 2 business days prior written notice of such delivery, specifically identifying the sending person, the face or par amount and type of security, and whether the security is in bearer, registered or book-entry form.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 30341, June 8, 1981]]

§ 535.222   Suspension of claims eligible for Claims Tribunal.

(a) All claims which may be presented to the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal under the terms of Article II of the Declaration of the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria Concerning the Settlement of Claims by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, dated January 19, 1981, and all claims for equitable or other judicial relief in connection with such claims, are hereby suspended, except as they may be presented to the Tribunal. During the period of this suspension, all such claims shall have no legal effect in any action now pending in any court in the United States, including the courts of any state and any locality thereof, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, or in any action commenced in any such court after the effective date of this section.
(b) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section shall prohibit the assertion of a defense, set-off or counterclaim in any pending or subsequent judicial proceeding commenced by the Government of Iran, any political subdivision of Iran, or any agency, instrumentality or entity controlled by the Government of Iran or any political subdivision thereof.
(c) Nothing in this section precludes the commencement of an action after the effective date of this section for the purpose of tolling the period of limitations for commencement of such action.
(d) Nothing in this section shall require dismissal of any action for want of prosecution.
(e) Suspension under this section of a claim or a portion thereof submitted to the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal for adjudication shall terminate upon a determination by the Tribunal that it does not have jurisdiction over such claim or portion thereof.
(f) A determination by the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal on the merits that a claimant is not entitled to recover on a claim or part thereof shall operate as a final resolution and discharge of such claim or part thereof for all purposes. A determination by the Tribunal that a claimant shall have recovery on a claim or part thereof in a specified amount shall operate as a final resolution and discharge of such claim or part thereof for all purposes upon payment to the claimant of the full amount of the award including any interest awarded by the Tribunal.
(g) Nothing in this section shall apply to any claim concerning the validity or payment of a standby letter of credit, performance or payment bond, or other similar instrument that is not the subject of a determination by the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal on the merits thereof. However, assertion of such a claim through judicial proceedings is governed by the general license in § 535.504. A determination by the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal on the merits that a standby letter of credit, performance bond or similar obligation is invalid, has been paid or otherwise discharged, or has no further purpose, or any similar determination shall operate as a final resolution and discharge or Iran's interest therein and, notwithstanding the provisions of § 535.504, may be enforced by a judicial proceeding to obtain a final judicial judgment or order permanently disposing of that interest.
(h) The effective date of this section is February 24, 1981.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14335, Feb. 26, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 29529, July 7, 1982; 56 FR 6546, Feb. 15, 1991]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 535.301   Iran; Iranian Entity.

(a) The term Iran and Iranian Entity includes:
Iran
and
Iranian Entity
includes:
(1) The state and the Government of Iran as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof or any territory, dependency, colony, protectorate, mandate, dominion, possession or place subject to the jurisdiction thereof;
(2) Any partnership, association, corporation, or other organization substantially owned or controlled by any of the foregoing;
(3) Any person to the extent that such person is, or has been, or to the extent that there is reasonable cause to believe that such person is, or has been, since the effective date acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of any of the foregoing;
(4) Any territory which on or since the effective date is controlled or occupied by the military, naval or police forces or other authority of Iran; and
(5) Any other person or organization determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be included within paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) A person specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not be deemed to fall within the definition of Iran solely by reason of being located in, organized under the laws of, or having its principal place of business in, Iran.

§ 535.308   Person.

The term person means an individual, partnership, association, corporation or other organization.
person
means an individual, partnership, association, corporation or other organization.
[[45 FR 24433, Apr. 9, 1980]]

§ 535.310   Transfer.

The term transfer shall mean any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or the levy of or under any judgement, decree, attachment, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition, or the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power.
transfer
shall mean any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or the levy of or under any judgement, decree, attachment, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition, or the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power.
[[44 FR 75352, Dec. 19, 1979]]

§ 535.311   Property; property interests.

Except as defined in § 535.203(f) for the purposes of that section, the terms property and property interest or property interests shall include, but not by way of limitation, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial securities, bankers' acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, real estate and any interest therein, leaseholds, grounds rents, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
property
and
property interest
or
property interests
shall include, but not by way of limitation, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial securities, bankers' acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, real estate and any interest therein, leaseholds, grounds rents, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.

§ 535.312   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest when used with respect to property shall mean an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
when used with respect to property shall mean an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
[[44 FR 75352, Dec. 19, 1979]]

§ 535.316   License.

Except as otherwise specified, the term license shall mean any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
shall mean any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
[[44 FR 66832, Nov. 21, 1979]]

§ 535.317   General license.

A general license is any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in this part.
[[44 FR 66832, Nov. 21, 1979]]

§ 535.318   Specific license.

A specific license is any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in this part.
[[44 FR 66832, Nov. 21, 1979]]

§ 535.320   Domestic bank.

(a) The term domestic bank shall mean any branch or office within the United States of any of the following which is not Iran or an Iranian entity: any bank or trust company incorporated under the banking laws of the United States or of any state, territory, or district of the United States, or any private bank or banker subject to supervision and examination under the banking laws of the United States or of any state, territory or district of the United States. The Secretary of the Treasury may also authorize any other banking institution to be treated as a “domestic bank” for the purpose of this definition or for the purpose of any or all sections of this part.
domestic bank
shall mean any branch or office within the United States of any of the following which is not Iran or an Iranian entity: any bank or trust company incorporated under the banking laws of the United States or of any state, territory, or district of the United States, or any private bank or banker subject to supervision and examination under the banking laws of the United States or of any state, territory or district of the United States. The Secretary of the Treasury may also authorize any other banking institution to be treated as a “domestic bank” for the purpose of this definition or for the purpose of any or all sections of this part.
(b) For purposes of §§ 535.413, 535.508, 535.531 and 535.901, the term domestic bank includes any branch or office within the United States of a non-Iranian foreign bank.
domestic bank
includes any branch or office within the United States of a non-Iranian foreign bank.
[[44 FR 66832, Nov. 21, 1979]]

§ 535.321   United States; continental United States.

The term United States means the United States and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof including the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. The term continental United States means the states of the United States and the District of Columbia.
United States
means the United States and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof including the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. The term
continental United States
means the states of the United States and the District of Columbia.
[[44 FR 66833, Nov. 21, 1979]]

§ 535.329   Person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

The term person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States includes:
person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States
includes:
(a) Any person wheresoever located who is a citizen or resident of the United States;
(b) Any person actually within the United States;
(c) Any corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state, territory, possession, or district of the United States; and
(d) Any partnership, association, corporation, or other organization wheresoever organized or doing business which is owned or controlled by persons specified in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section.

§ 535.333   Properties.

(a) The term properties as used in § 535.215 means all uncontested and non-contingent liabilities and property interests of the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities, including debts. It does not include bank deposits or funds and securities. It also does not include obligations under standby letters of credit or similar instruments in the nature of performance bonds, including accounts established pursuant to § 535.568.
(b) Properties do not cease to fall within the definition in paragraph (a), above, merely due to the existence of unpaid obligations, charges or fees relating to such properties, or undischarged liens against such properties.
(c) Liabilities and property interests of the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities may be considered contested only if the holder thereof reasonably believes that Iran does not have title or has only partial title to the asset. After October 23, 2001, such a belief may be considered reasonable only if it is based upon a bona fide opinion, in writing, of an attorney licensed to practice within the United States stating that Iran does not have title or has only partial title to the asset. For purposes of this paragraph, the term holder shall include any person who possesses the property, or who, although not in physical possession of the property, has, by contract or otherwise, control over a third party who does in fact have physical possession of the property. A person is not a holder by virtue of being the beneficiary of an attachment, injunction or similar order.
(d) Liabilities and property interests shall not be deemed to be contested solely because they are subject to an attachment, injunction, or other similar order.
[[66 FR 38554, July 25, 2001]]

§ 535.334   Act of the Government of Iran.

For purposes of § 535.216, an act of the Government of Iran, includes any acts ordered, authorized, allowed, approved, or ratified by the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities or controlled entities.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14336, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.335   Claim arising out of events in Iran.

For purposes of § 535.216, a claim is one “arising out of events” of the type specified only if such event is the specific act that is the basis of the claim.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14336, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.337   Funds.

For purposes of this part, the term funds shall mean monies in trust, escrow and similar special funds held by non-banking institutions, currency and coins. It does not include accounts created under § 535.568.
funds
shall mean monies in trust, escrow and similar special funds held by non-banking institutions, currency and coins. It does not include accounts created under § 535.568.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 30341, June 8, 1981]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 535.401   Reference to amended sections.

Reference to any section of this part or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction or license issued pursuant to this part shall be deemed to refer to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.
[[45 FR 24433, Apr. 9, 1980]]

§ 535.402   Effect of amendment of sections of this part or of other orders, etc.

Any amendment, modification, or revocation of any section of this part or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 203 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act shall not, unless otherwise specifically provided, be deemed to affect any act done or omitted to be done, or any suit or proceeding had or commenced in any civil or criminal case, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation and all penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction or license shall continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
[[45 FR 24433, Apr. 9, 1980]]

§ 535.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest of Iran or an Iranian entity.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from Iran or an Iranian entity, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property in which Iran or an Iranian entity has or has had an interest, unless there exists in the property another such interest the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred to Iran or an Iranian interest, such property shall be deemed to be property in which there exists an interest of Iran or an Iranian entity.
[[45 FR 24433, Apr. 9, 1980]]

§ 535.413   Transfers between dollar accounts held for foreign banks.

Transfers authorized by § 535.901 include transfers by order of a non-Iranian foreign bank from its account in a domestic bank (directly or through a foreign branch or subsidiary of a domestic bank) to an account held by a domestic bank (directly or through a foreign branch or subsidiary) for a second non-Iranian foreign bank which in turn credits an account held by it abroad for Iran. For the purposes of this section, a non-Iranian foreign bank means a bank which is not a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
[[44 FR 66833, Nov. 21, 1979]]

§ 535.414   Payments to blocked accounts under § 535.508.

(a) Section 535.508 does not authorize any transfer from a blocked account within the United States to an account held by any bank outside the United States or any other payment into a blocked account outside the United States.
(b) Section 535.508 only authorizes payment into a blocked account held by a domestic bank as defined by § 535.320.
[[44 FR 67617, Nov. 26, 1979]]

§ 535.415   Payment by Iranian entities of obligations to persons within the United States.

A person receiving payment under § 535.904 may distribute all or part of that payment to anyone: Provided, That any such payment to Iran or an Iranian entity must be to a blocked account in a domestic bank.
Provided,
That any such payment to Iran or an Iranian entity must be to a blocked account in a domestic bank.
[[44 FR 67617, Nov. 26, 1979]]

§ 535.416   Letters of credit.

(a) Question. Prior to the effective date, a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. Can payment be made upon presentation of documentary drafts?
Question.
Prior to the effective date, a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. Can payment be made upon presentation of documentary drafts?
Answer. Yes, provided payment is made into a blocked account in a domestic bank.
Answer.
Yes, provided payment is made into a blocked account in a domestic bank.
(b) Question. Prior to the effective date, a domestic branch of a bank organized or incorporated under the laws of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. Payment is to be made through a foreign branch of the bank. Can payment be made upon presentation of documentary drafts?
Question.
Prior to the effective date, a domestic branch of a bank organized or incorporated under the laws of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. Payment is to be made through a foreign branch of the bank. Can payment be made upon presentation of documentary drafts?
Answer. Yes, provided payment is made into a blocked account in a domestic bank.
Answer.
Yes, provided payment is made into a blocked account in a domestic bank.
(c) Question. Prior to the effective date, a foreign bank confirms a documentary letter of credit issued by its U.S. agency or branch for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. Can the U.S. agency or branch of the foreign bank transfer funds to the foreign bank in connection with that foreign bank's payment under the letter of credit?
Question.
Prior to the effective date, a foreign bank confirms a documentary letter of credit issued by its U.S. agency or branch for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. Can the U.S. agency or branch of the foreign bank transfer funds to the foreign bank in connection with that foreign bank's payment under the letter of credit?
Answer. No, the U.S. agency's payment is blocked, unless the foreign bank made payment to the Iranian entity prior to the effective date.
Answer.
No, the U.S. agency's payment is blocked, unless the foreign bank made payment to the Iranian entity prior to the effective date.
(d) Question. Prior to the effective date, a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. The Iranian entity presents documentry drafts which are deficient in some detail. May the non-Iranian account party waive the documentary deficiency and authorize the bank to make payment?
Question.
Prior to the effective date, a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. The Iranian entity presents documentry drafts which are deficient in some detail. May the non-Iranian account party waive the documentary deficiency and authorize the bank to make payment?
Answer. Yes, provided payment is made into a blocked account in a domestic bank. However, the non-Iranian account party is not obligated by these Regulations to exercise a waiver of documentary deficiencies. In cases where such a waiver is not exercised, the bank's payment obligation, if any, under the letter of credit remains blocked, as does any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the account party. The documents are also blocked.
Answer.
Yes, provided payment is made into a blocked account in a domestic bank. However, the non-Iranian account party is not obligated by these Regulations to exercise a waiver of documentary deficiencies. In cases where such a waiver is not exercised, the bank's payment obligation, if any, under the letter of credit remains blocked, as does any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the account party. The documents are also blocked.
(e) Question. Prior to the effective date, a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. The Iranian entity does not make timely, complete, or proper presentation of documents, and the letter of credit expires. Does there remain a blocked payment obligation held by the bank?
Question.
Prior to the effective date, a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. The Iranian entity does not make timely, complete, or proper presentation of documents, and the letter of credit expires. Does there remain a blocked payment obligation held by the bank?
Answer. No, but any documents held by the bank continue to be blocked. It is also possible that the account party still has a related obligation to the Iranian entity and any such obligation would be blocked.
Answer.
No, but any documents held by the bank continue to be blocked. It is also possible that the account party still has a related obligation to the Iranian entity and any such obligation would be blocked.
(f) Question. A bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued a letter of credit for a U.S. account party in favor of an Iranian entity. The letter of credit is confirmed by a foreign bank. Prior to or after the effective date, the Iranian entity presents documents to the U.S. issuing bank. Payment is deferred. After the effective date, the Iranian entity requests that the issuing bank either return the documents to the Iranian entity or transfer them to the confirming bank. Can the issuing bank do so?
Question.
A bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued a letter of credit for a U.S. account party in favor of an Iranian entity. The letter of credit is confirmed by a foreign bank. Prior to or after the effective date, the Iranian entity presents documents to the U.S. issuing bank. Payment is deferred. After the effective date, the Iranian entity requests that the issuing bank either return the documents to the Iranian entity or transfer them to the confirming bank. Can the issuing bank do so?
Answer. No. The U.S. issuing bank can neither return nor transfer the documents without a license. The documents constitute blocked property under the Regulations.
Answer.
No. The U.S. issuing bank can neither return nor transfer the documents without a license. The documents constitute blocked property under the Regulations.
(g) Question. Prior to the effective date, a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. The Iranian entity presents documentary drafts which are deficient in some detail. May the non-Iranian account party waive the documentary deficiency and make payment?
Question.
Prior to the effective date, a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States has issued or confirmed a documentary letter of credit for a non-Iranian account party in favor of an Iranian entity. The Iranian entity presents documentary drafts which are deficient in some detail. May the non-Iranian account party waive the documentary deficiency and make payment?
Answer. Yes, provided payment is made into a blocked account in a domestic bank. However, the non-Iranian account party is not obligated by these Regulations to exercise a waiver of documentary deficiencies. In cases where such a waiver is not exercised, the amount of the payment held by the account party is blocked.
Answer.
Yes, provided payment is made into a blocked account in a domestic bank. However, the non-Iranian account party is not obligated by these Regulations to exercise a waiver of documentary deficiencies. In cases where such a waiver is not exercised, the amount of the payment held by the account party is blocked.
[[44 FR 69287, Dec. 3, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 75353, Dec. 19, 1979]]

§ 535.420   Transfers of accounts under § 535.508 from demand to interest-bearing status.

Section 535.508 authorizes transfer of a blocked demand deposit account to interest-bearing status at the instruction of the Iranian depositor at any time.
[[44 FR 76784, Dec. 28, 1979]]

§ 535.421   Prior contractual commitments not a basis for licensing.

Specific licenses are not issued on the basis that an unlicensed firm commitment or payment has been made in connection with a transaction prohibited by this part. Contractual commitments to engage in transactions subject to the prohibitions of this part should not be made, unless the contract specifically states that the transaction is authorized by general license or that it is subject to the issuance of a specific license.
[[45 FR 24433, Apr. 9, 1980]]

§ 535.433   Central Bank of Iran.

The Central Bank of Iran (Bank Markazi Iran) is an agency, instrumentality and controlled entity of the Government of Iran for all purposes under this part.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14336, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.437   Effect on other authorities.

Nothing in this part in any way relieves any persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States from securing licenses or other authorizations as required from the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce or other relevant agency prior to executing the transactions authorized or directed by this part. This includes licenses for transactions involving military equipment.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14336, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.438   Standby letters of credit, performance or payment bonds and similar obligations.

(a) Nothing contained in §§ 535.212, 535.213 and 535.214 or in any other provision or revocation or amendment of any provision in this part affects the prohibition in § 535.201 and the licensing procedure in § 535.568 relating to certain standby letters of credit, performance bonds and similar obligations. The term funds and securities as used in this part does not include substitute blocked accounts established under section 535.568 relating to standby letters of credit, performance or payment bonds and similar obligations.
funds and securities
as used in this part does not include substitute blocked accounts established under section 535.568 relating to standby letters of credit, performance or payment bonds and similar obligations.
(b) No transfer requirement under § 535.213 or § 535.214 shall be deemed to authorize or compel any payment or transfer of any obligation under a standby letter of credit, performance bond or similar obligation as to which a blocked account has been established pursuant to § 535.568 or as to which payment is prohibited under an injunction obtained by the account party.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14336, Feb. 26, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 30341, June 8, 1981]]

§ 535.440   Commercially reasonable interest rates.

(a) For purposes of §§ 535.212 and 535.213, what is meant by “commercially reasonable rates” depends on the particular circumstances. In the case of time or savings deposits, the “commercially reasonable rate” is that rate provided for by the deposit agreement or applicable law. With respect to other obligations where the rate remains to be determined, it is presently expected that the “commercially reasonable rate” will be the rate agreed upon by the bank and Iran. However, where a deposit has in fact operated as a demand account under Treasury license, it would be appropriate to treat the deposit for purposes of §§ 535.212 and 535.213 as a non-interest bearing account. Furthermore, in the event that the Iran-U.S Claims Tribunal (the “Tribunal”) determines that interest additional to that agreed upon between the bank and Iran, or compensation or damages in lieu of interest, is due Iran, then that amount determined by the Tribunal to be owing to Iran shall be transferred as, or as part of, the interest at “commercially reasonable rates” required to be transferred pursuant to §§ 535.212 and 535.213, regardless of any settlement between the bank and Iran or any release or discharge that Iran may have given the bank.
(b) The contingent interest of Iran in any liability for further or additional interest, or compensation or damages in lieu of interest, that may be claimed in, and determined by the Tribunal, constitutes an interest of Iran in property for purposes of this part, and no agreement between Iran and any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States is effective to extinguish such Iranian interest in property unless so specifically licensed by the Treasury Department.
(c) For deposits held as time deposits, no penalty shall be imposed for early withdrawal. (In this connection, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined that application of the penalty for early withdrawal of time deposits transferred before maturity, pursuant to § 535.213 is not required.)
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205; 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26605; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12277, 46 FR 7915; E.O. 12278, 46 FR 7917; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[48 FR 253, Jan. 4, 1983]]

§ 535.441   Settlement Agreement regarding small claims.

(a) Award No. 483 of June 22, 1990 of the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal, approving and giving effect to the Settlement Agreement in Claims of Less Than $250,000, Case No. 86 and Case No. B38, dated May 13, 1990 (the “Settlement Agreement”), constitutes a determination by the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal of all claims encompassed therein within the meaning of § 535.222(f) of this part. In accordance with § 535.222(f), upon payment from the Security Account to the United States, the Settlement Agreement shall operate as a final resolution and discharge of all claims encompassed by the Settlement Agreement for all purposes. All such claims shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission on the terms established in the Settlement Agreement and by the provisions of Public Law 99-93, Title V, Aug. 16, 1985, 99 Stat. 437, applicable to en bloc settlements of claims of U.S. nationals against Iran.
(b) Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, the private claims subject to that agreement and this part are “* * * claims of less than $250,000 each, which have been filed with the Tribunal by the United States on behalf of U.S. nationals, which claims are included in Cases Nos. 10001 through 12785, and which are still pending, * * * ,” and “* * * claims of U.S. nationals for less than $250,000 which have been submitted to the United States Department of State but were not timely filed with the Tribunal, as well as claims of U.S. nationals for less than $250,000 which have been either withdrawn by the Claimants or dismissed by the Tribunal for lack of jurisdiction, * * * .” Settlement Agreement, Art. I(A).
[[55 FR 40831, Oct. 5, 1990]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 535.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[[68 FR 53657, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 535.502   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 203 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, shall be deemed to authorize or validate any transaction effected prior to the issuance thereof, unless such license or other authorization specifically so provides.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes a transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Treasury Department and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any provision of parts 500, 505, 515, 520 or 530 of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction or license authorizing a transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition or prohibitions in subpart B from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
[[44 FR 66833, Nov. 21, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 75353, Dec. 19, 1979]]

§ 535.503   Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.

The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right to exclude any person from the operation of any license or from the privileges therein conferred or to restrict the applicability thereof with respect to particular persons, transactions or property or classes thereof. Such action shall be binding upon all persons receiving actual notice or constructive notice thereof.
[[44 FR 66833, Nov. 21, 1979]]

§ 535.504   Certain judicial proceedings with respect to property of Iran or Iranian entities.

(a) Subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and § 535.222, judicial proceedings are authorized with respect to property in which on or after 8:10 a.m., e.s.t., November 14, 1979, there has existed an interest of Iran or an Iranian entity.
(b) This section does not authorize:
(1) Any pre-judgment attachment or any other proceeding of similar or analogous effect pertaining to any property (and any income earned thereon) subject to the provisions of §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 or 535.215 on January 19, 1981, including, but not limited to, a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction, which operates as a restraint on property, for purposes of holding it within the jurisdiction of a court, or otherwise;
(2) Any payment or delivery out of a blocked account based upon a judicial proceeding, pertaining to any property subject to the provisions of § 535.211, § 535.212, § 535.213, § 535.214 or § 535.215 on January 19, 1981;
(3)(i) Any final judicial judgment or order (A) permanently enjoining, (B) terminating or nullifying, or (C) otherwise permanently disposing of any interest of Iran in any standby letter of credit, performance bond or similar obligation. Any license authorizing such action is hereby revoked and withdrawn. This revocation and withdrawal of prior licenses prohibits judgments or orders that are within the terms of this paragraph (b)(3)(i), including any such judgments or orders which may have been previously entered but which had not become final by July 2, 1982, through the conclusion of appellate proceedings or the expiration of the time for appeal.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b)(3) shall prohibit the assertion of any defense, set-off or counterclaim in any pending or subsequent judicial proceeding commenced by the Government of Iran, any political subdivision of Iran, or any agency, instrumentality or entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran or any political subdivision thereof.
(iii) Nothing in this paragraph (b)(3) shall preclude the commencement of an action for the purpose of tolling the period of limitations for commencement of such action.
(iv) Nothing in this paragraph (b)(3) shall require dismissal of any action for want of prosecution.
(c) For purposes of this section, contested and contingent liabilities and property interests of the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities, including debts, shall be deemed to be subject to § 535.215.
(d) A judicial proceeding is not authorized by this section if it is based on transactions which violated the prohibitions of this part.
(e) Judicial proceedings to obtain attachments on standby letters of credit, performance bonds or similar obligations and on substitute blocked accounts established under § 535.568 relating to standby letters of credit, performance bonds and similar obligations are not authorized or licensed.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14336, Feb. 26, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 26477, May 13, 1981; 47 FR 29529, July 7, 1982; 47 FR 55482, Dec. 10, 1982; 48 FR 57129, Dec. 28, 1983]]

§ 535.508   Payments to blocked accounts in domestic banks.

(a) Any payment or transfer of credit, including any payment or transfer by any U.S.-owned or controlled foreign firm or branch to a blocked account in a domestic bank in the name of Iran or any Iranian entity is hereby authorized: Provided, Such payment or transfer shall not be made from any blocked account if such payment or transfer represents, directly or indirectly, a transfer of the interest of Iran or an Iranian entity to any other country or person.
Provided,
Such payment or transfer shall not be made from any blocked account if such payment or transfer represents, directly or indirectly, a transfer of the interest of Iran or an Iranian entity to any other country or person.
(b) This section does not authorize:
(1) Any payment or transfer to any blocked account held in a name other than that of Iran or the Iranian entity who is the ultimate beneficiary of such payment or transfer; or
(2) Any foreign exchange transaction including, but not by way of limitation, any transfer of credit, or payment of an obligation, expressed in terms of the currency of any foreign country.
(c) This section does not authorize any payment or transfer of credit comprising an integral part of a transaction which cannot be effected without the subsequent issuance of a further license.
(d) This section does not authorize the crediting of the proceeds of the sale of securities held in a blocked account or a sub-account thereof, or the income derived from such securities to a blocked account or sub-account under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or sub-account in which such securities were held.
(e) This section does not authorize any payment or transfer from a blocked account in a domestic bank to a blocked account held under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specified blocked account or sub-account from which the payment or transfer is made.
Note to § 535.508:
Please refer to § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
[[44 FR 66590, Nov. 20, 1979, as amended at 62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997]]

§ 535.528   Certain transactions with respect to Iranian patents, trademarks and copyrights authorized.

(a) The following transactions by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are authorized:
(1) The filing and prosecution of any application for an Iranian patent, trademark or copyright, or for the renewal thereof;
(2) The receipt of any Iranian patent, trademark or copyright;
(3) The filing and prosecution of opposition or infringement proceedings with respect to any Iranian patent, trademark, or copyright, and the prosecution of a defense to any such proceedings;
(4) The payment of fees currently due to the government of Iran, either directly or through an attorney or representative, in connection with any of the transactions authorized by paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section or for the maintenance of any Iranian patent, trademark or copyright; and
(5) The payment of reasonable and customary fees currently due to attorneys or representatives in Iran incurred in connection with any of the transactions authorized by paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section.
(b) Payments effected pursuant to the terms of paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) of this section may not be made from any blocked account.
(c) As used in this section the term Iranian patent, trademark, or copyright shall mean any patent, petty patent, design patent, trademark or copyright issued by Iran.
Iranian patent, trademark, or copyright
shall mean any patent, petty patent, design patent, trademark or copyright issued by Iran.
[[45 FR 29288, May 2, 1980]]

§ 535.531   Payment of certain checks and drafts.

(a) A bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States is hereby authorized to make payments from blocked accounts with such banking institution of checks and drafts drawn or issued prior to the effective date, Provided, That:
Provided,
That:
(1) The amount involved in any one payment, acceptance, or debit does not exceed $3000; or
(2) The check or draft was within the United States in process of collection by a domestic bank on or prior to the effective date and does not exceed $50,000.
(3) The authorization contained in this paragraph shall expire at the close of business on January 14, 1980.
(b) A bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States as its own obligation may make payment to a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who is the beneficiary of any letter of credit issued or confirmed by it, or on a draft accepted by it, prior to the effective date, where the letter of credit was issued or confirmed on behalf of Iran or an Iranian entity, Provided, That:
Provided,
That:
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 535.902, no blocked account may at any time be debited in connection with such a payment.
(2) Such a payment shall give the bank making payment no special priority or other right to blocked accounts it holds in the event that such blocked accounts are vested or otherwise lawfully used in connection with a settlement of claims.
(3) Nothing in this paragraph prevents payment being made to the beneficiary of any draft or letter of credit or to any banking institution pursuant to § 535.904.
(c) The office will consider on a case-by-case basis, without any commitment on its part to authorize any transaction or class of transactions, applications for specific licenses to make payments from blocked accounts of documentary drafts drawn under irrevocable letters of credit issued or confirmed by a domestic bank prior to the effective date, in favor of any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Any bank or payee submitting such an application should include data on all such letters of credit in which it is involved. Applications should be submitted not later than January 10, 1980.
(d) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not authorize any payment to Iran or an Iranian entity except payments into a blocked account in a domestic bank unless Iran or the Iranian entity is otherwise licensed to receive such payment.
[[44 FR 75352, Dec. 19, 1979]]

§ 535.532   Completion of certain securities transactions.

(a) Banking institutions within the United States are hereby authorized to complete, on or before November 21, 1979, purchases and sales made prior to the effective date of securities purchased or sold for the account of Iran or an Iranian entity provided the following terms and conditions are complied with, respectively.
(1) The proceeds of such sale are credited to a blocked account in a banking institution in the name of the person for whose account the sale was made; and
(2) The securities so purchased are held in a blocked account in a banking institution in the name of the person for whose account the purchase was made.
(b) This section does not authorize the crediting of the proceeds of the sale of securities held in a blocked account or a sub-account thereof, to a blocked account or sub-account under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or sub-account in which such securities were held.

§ 535.540   Disposition of certain tangible property.

(a) Specific licenses may be issued in appropriate cases at the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury for the public sale and transfer of certain tangible property that is encumbered or contested within the meaning of § 535.333 (b) and (c) and that, because it is blocked by § 535.201, may not be sold or transferred without a specific license, provided that each of the following conditions is met:
(1) The holder or supplier of the property has made a good faith effort over a reasonable period of time to obtain payment of any amounts owed by Iran or the Iranian entity, or adequate assurance of such payment;
(2) Neither payment nor adequate assurance of payment has been received;
(3) The license applicant has, under provisions of law applicable prior to November 14, 1979, a right to sell, or reclaim and sell, such property by methods not requiring judicial proceedings, and would be able to exercise such right under applicable law, but for the prohibitions in this part, and
(4) The license applicant shall enter into an indemnification agreement acceptable to the United States providing for the applicant to indemnify the United States, in an amount up to 150 percent of the proceeds of sale, for any monetary loss which may accrue to the United States from a decision by the Iran-U.S. Claims Tribunal that the United States is liable to Iran for damages that are in any way attributable to the issuance of such license. In the event the applicant and those acting for or on its behalf are the only bidders on the property, the United States shall have the right to establish a reasonable indemnification amount.
(b) An applicant for a license under this section shall provide the Office of Foreign Assets Control with documentation on the points enumerated in paragraph (a) of this section. The applicant normally will be required to submit an opinion of legal counsel regarding the legal right claimed under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(c) Any sale of property licensed under this section shall be at public auction and shall be made in good faith in a commercially reasonable manner. Notwithstanding any provision of State law, the license applicant shall give detailed notice to the appropriate Iranian entity of the proposed sale or transfer at least 30 days prior to the sale or other transfer. In addition, if the license applicant has filed a claim with the Iran-U.S. Claims Tribunal, the license applicant shall give at least 30 days' advance notice of the sale to the Tribunal.
(d) The disposition of the proceeds of any sale licensed under this section, minus such reasonable costs of sale as are authorized by applicable law (which will be licensed to be deducted), shall be in accordance with either of the following methods:
(1) Deposit into a separate blocked, interest-bearing account at a domestic bank in the name of the licensed applicant; or
(2) Any reasonable disposition in accordance with provisions of law applicable prior to November 14, 1979, which may include unrestricted use of all or a portion of the proceeds, provided that the applicant shall post a bond or establish a standby letter of credit, subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, in favor of the United States in the amount of the proceeds of sale, prior to any such disposition.
(e) For purposes of this section, the term proceeds means any gross amount of money or other value realized from the sale. The proceeds shall include any amount equal to any debt owed by Iran which may have constituted all or part of a successful bid at the licensed sale.
proceeds
means any gross amount of money or other value realized from the sale. The proceeds shall include any amount equal to any debt owed by Iran which may have constituted all or part of a successful bid at the licensed sale.
(f) The proceeds of any such sale shall be deemed to be property governed by § 535.215 of this part. Any part of the proceeds that constitutes Iranian property which under § 535.215 is to be transferred to Iran shall be so transferred in accordance with that section.
(g) Any license pursuant to this section may be granted subject to conditions deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(h) Any person licensed pursuant to this section is required to submit a report to the Chief of Licensing, Office of Foreign Assets Control, within ten business days of the licensed sale or other transfer, providing a full accounting of the transaction, including the costs, any payment to lienholders or others, including payments to Iran or Iranian entities, and documentation concerning any blocked account established or payments made.
(Sec. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26605; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[47 FR 31683, July 22, 1982]]

§ 535.566   Unblocking of foreign currency deposits held by U.S.-owned or controlled foreign firms.

Deposits held abroad in currencies other than U.S. dollars by branches and subsidiaries of persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are unblocked, provided however that conversions of blocked dollar deposits into foreign currencies are not authorized.
[[44 FR 66833, Nov. 21, 1979]]

§ 535.567   Payment under advised letters of credit.

(a) Specific licenses may be issued for presentation, acceptance, or payment of documentary drafts under a letter of credit opened by an Iranian entity and advised by a domestic bank or an Iranian bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, provided, That:
provided,
That:
(1) The letter of credit was advised prior to the effective date;
(2) The property which is the subject of the payment under the letter of credit was not in the possession or control of the exporter on or after the effective date;
(3) The Beneficiary is a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(b) As a general matter, licenses will not be issued if the amount to be paid to a single payee exceeds $500,000, or if hardship cannot be shown.
[[44 FR 75354, Dec. 19, 1979]]

§ 535.568   Certain standby letters of credit and performance bonds.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, payment into a blocked account in a domestic bank by an issuing or confirming bank under a standby letter of credit in favor of an Iranian entity is prohibited by § 535.201 and not authorized, notwithstanding the provisions of § 535.508, if either:
(1) A specific license has been issued pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, or
(2) Eight business days have not expired after notice to the account party pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Whenever an issuing or confirming bank shall receive such demand for payment under a standby letter of credit, it shall promptly notify the person for whose account the credit was opened. Such person may then apply within five business days for a specific license authorizing the account party to establish a blocked account on its books in the name of the Iranian entity in the amount payable under the credit, in lieu of payment by the issuing or confirming bank into a blocked account and reimbursement therefor by the account party.
(c) Where there is outstanding a demand for payment under a standby letter of credit, and the issuing or confirming bank has been enjoined from making payment, upon removal of the injunction, the person for whose account the credit was opened may apply for a specific license for the same purpose and in the same manner as that set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. The issuing or confirming bank shall not make payment under the standby letter of credit unless:
(1) Eight business days have expired since the bank has received notice of the removal of the injunction and;
(2) A specific license issued to the account party pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph has not been presented to the bank.
(d) If necessary to assure the availability of the funds blocked, the Secretary may at any time require the payment of the amounts due under any letter of credit described in paragraph (a) of this section into a blocked account in a domestic bank or the supplying of any form of security deemed necessary.
(e) Nothing in this section precludes any person for whose account a standby letter of credit was opened or any other person from at any time contesting the legality of the demand from the Iranian entity or from raising any other legal defense to payment under the standby letter of credit.
(f) This section does not affect the obligation of the various parties of the instruments covered by this section if the instruments and payment thereunder are subsequently unblocked.
(g) For the purposes of this section, the term standby letter of credit shall mean a letter of credit securing performance of, or repayment of, any advance payments of deposits, under a contract with Iran or an Iranian entity, or any similar obligation in the nature of a performance bond.
standby letter of credit
shall mean a letter of credit securing performance of, or repayment of, any advance payments of deposits, under a contract with Iran or an Iranian entity, or any similar obligation in the nature of a performance bond.
(h) The regulations do not authorize any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to reimburse a non-U.S. bank for payment to Iran or an Iranian entity under a standby letter of credit, except by payment into a blocked account in accordance with § 535.508 or paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(i) A person receiving a specific license under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall certify to the Office of Foreign Assets Control within five business days after receipt of that license that it has established the blocked account on its books as provided for in those paragraphs. However, in appropriate cases, this time may be extended upon application to the Office of Foreign Assets Control when the account party has filed a petition with an appropriate court seeking a judicial order barring payment by the issuing or confirming bank.
(j) The extension or renewal of a standby letter of credit is authorized.
(k) All specific licenses previously issued under this section to account parties to standby letters of credit are revoked, effective February 28, 1991, unless the license holder submits documentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control establishing that the specific license pertains to a standby letter of credit obligation that (1) is at issue in any claim brought before the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal (“Tribunal”), (2) is or was at issue in any claim that the Tribunal resolves, or has resolved, on the merits in favor of the account party, or (3) was at issue in a matter that was settled by the parties. The documentation required for such a showing may include such items as a copy of a Tribunal Award, a copy of a signed settlement agreement, or copies of cover pages of recent filings in pending Tribunal cases.
[[47 FR 12339, Mar. 23, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 6546, Feb. 15, 1991]]

§ 535.569   Licensed letter of credit transactions; forwarding of documents.

When payment of a letter of credit issued, advised, or confirmed by a bank subject to the jurisdiction of the United States is authorized by either general or specific license, the forwarding of the letter of credit documents to the account party is authorized.
[[45 FR 1877, Jan. 9, 1980]]

§ 535.576   Payment of non-dollar letters of credit to Iran.

Notwithstanding the prohibitions of §§ 535.201 and 535.206(a)(4), payment of existing non-dollar letters of credit in favor of Iranian entities or any person in Iran by any foreign branch or subsidiary of a U.S. firm is authorized, provided that the credit was opened prior to the respective effective date.
[[45 FR 29288, May 2, 1980]]

§ 535.579   Authorization of new transactions concerning certain Iranian property.

(a) Transactions involving property in which Iran or an Iranian entity has an interest are authorized where:
(1) The property comes within the jurisdiction of the United States or into the control or possession of any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States after January 19, 1981, or
(2) The interest in the property of Iran or an Iranian entity (e.g. exports consigned to Iran or an Iranian entity) arises after January 19, 1981.
(b) Transactions involving standby letters of credit, performance or payment bonds and similar obligations, entered into prior to January 20, 1981, described in § 535.568 remain subject to the prohibitions and procedures contained in §§ 535.201 and 535.568.
(c) Property not blocked under § 535.201 as of January 19, 1981, in which the Government of Iran or an Iranian entity has an interest, which after that date is or becomes subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or comes within the control or possession of a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States for the express purpose of settling claims against Iran or Iranian entities, is excluded from any authorization in this part for any attachment, injunction or other order of similar or analogous effect and any such attachment, injunction or order is prohibited by §§ 535.201 and 535.203.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14336, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.580   Necessary living expenses of relatives of the former Shah of Iran.

The transfer, payment or withdrawal of property described in § 535.217 is authorized to the extent necessary to pay living expenses of any individual listed in that section. Living expenses for this purpose shall include food, housing, transportation, security and other personal expenses.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12284, 46 FR 7929)
[[46 FR 14330, Feb. 26, 1981]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 535.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to records and reports, see subpart C of part 501 of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 535.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (the “Act”) (50 U.S.C. 1705), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Act.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in Section 206 of the Act may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under the Act.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of the Act is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(d) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 2332d, as added by Public Law 104-132, section 321, which provides that, except as provided in regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, a U.S. person, knowing or having reasonable cause to know that a country is designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism, engages in a financial transaction with the government of that country, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.
[[44 FR 65956, Nov. 15, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 43461, Aug. 23, 1996; 61 FR 54938, Oct. 23, 1996; 62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 29252, May 22, 2006; 73 FR 32651, June 10, 2008; 81 FR 43074, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10436, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11878, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27716, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19886, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14537, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7371, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2232, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2141, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3690, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 535.702   Prepenalty notice.

(a) When required. If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (hereinafter “Director”) has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, they shall issue to the person concerned a notice of their intent to impose a monetary penalty. The prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (hereinafter “Director”) has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, they shall issue to the person concerned a notice of their intent to impose a monetary penalty. The prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
(b) Contents—(1) Facts of violation. The prepenalty notice shall:
Contents
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall:
(i) Describe the violation.
(ii) Specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated.
(iii) State the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2) Right to make presentations. The prepenalty notice also shall inform the person of their right to make a written presentation within thirty (30) days of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed, or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Right to make presentations.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the person of their right to make a written presentation within thirty (30) days of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed, or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
[[53 FR 7356, Mar. 8, 1988, as amended at 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 535.703   Presentation responding to prepenalty notice.

(a) Time within which to respond. The named person shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to make a written presentation to the Director.
Time within which to respond.
The named person shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to make a written presentation to the Director.
(b) Form and contents of written presentation. The written presentation need not be in any particular form, but shall contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should contain responses to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the person believes the penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Form and contents of written presentation.
The written presentation need not be in any particular form, but shall contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should contain responses to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the person believes the penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
[[53 FR 7356, Mar. 8, 1988]]

§ 535.704   Penalty notice.

(a) No violation. If, after considering any presentations made in response to the prepenalty notice, the Director determines that there was no violation by the person named in the prepenalty notice, they promptly shall notify the person in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
No violation.
If, after considering any presentations made in response to the prepenalty notice, the Director determines that there was no violation by the person named in the prepenalty notice, they promptly shall notify the person in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
(b) Violation. If, after considering any presentations made in response to the prepenalty notice, the Director determines that there was a violation by the person named in the prepenalty notice, they promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty to that person.
Violation.
If, after considering any presentations made in response to the prepenalty notice, the Director determines that there was a violation by the person named in the prepenalty notice, they promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty to that person.
[[53 FR 7356, Mar. 8, 1988, as amended by 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 535.705   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the person named does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.
[[70 FR 15762, Mar. 29, 2005]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 535.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 53657, Sept. 11, 2003]]

Subpart I—Miscellaneous Provisions


§ 535.901   Dollar accounts at banks abroad.

Any domestic bank is hereby authorized to effect withdrawals or other transfers from any account held in the name of a non-Iranian bank located in a foreign country, provided such non-Iranian foreign bank is not a person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

§ 535.902   Set-offs by U.S. owned or controlled firms abroad.

(a) Branches and subsidiaries in foreign countries of persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are licensed to set-off their claims against Iran or Iranian entities by debit to blocked accounts held by them for Iran or Iranian entities.
(b) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section is revoked as of January 19, 1981.
(c) For purposes of this section, set-offs include combinations of accounts and any similar actions.
(Secs. 201-207, 91 Stat. 1626, 50 U.S.C. 1701-1706; E.O. 12170, 44 FR 65729; E.O. 12205, 45 FR 24099; E.O. 12211, 45 FR 26685; E.O. 12276, 46 FR 7913; E.O. 12279, 46 FR 7919; E.O. 12280, 46 FR 7921; E.O. 12281, 46 FR 7923; E.O. 12282, 46 FR 7925; E.O. 12283, 46 FR 7927, and E.O. 12294, 46 FR 14111)
[[46 FR 14337, Feb. 26, 1981]]

§ 535.904   Payment by Iranian entities of obligations to persons within the United States.

The transfer of funds after the effective date by, through or to any U.S. banking institution or other person within the United States solely for purposes of payment of obligations by Iranian entities owed to persons within the United States is authorized: Provided, That there is no debit to a blocked account. Property is not blocked by virtue of being transferred or received pursuant to this section.
Provided,
That there is no debit to a blocked account. Property is not blocked by virtue of being transferred or received pursuant to this section.
[[44 FR 66591, Nov. 20, 1979]]

§ 535.905   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, to licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and to other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
[[62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997]]

PART 536—NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12978, 60 FR 54579, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 415; E.O. 13286, 68 FR 10619, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 166.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12978, 60 FR 54579, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 415; E.O. 13286, 68 FR 10619, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 166.
[Source:62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 536.100   Licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[[68 FR 53657, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 536.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.
(b) No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 536.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person, of a specially designated narcotics trafficker are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, other than donations of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, a specially designated narcotics trafficker is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
Note 1 to § 536.201:
See § 536.312 and the notes to that section for the definition and information about the public listing of specially designated narcotics traffickers and OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List). See § 536.312(d) concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
See
§ 536.312 and the notes to that section for the definition and information about the public listing of specially designated narcotics traffickers and OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
See
§ 536.312(d) concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 536.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[86 FR 26663, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75958, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 536.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date, which is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, license, or other authorization hereunder and involves any property held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker or in which a specially designated narcotics trafficker has or has had an interest since such date, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power or privilege with respect to such property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or interest in, any property held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker or in which a specially designated narcotics trafficker has an interest, or has had an interest since such date, unless the person with whom such property is held or maintained, prior to such date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or render it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued hereunder.
(d) Transfers of property which otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property was held or maintained;
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization by or pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization hereunder; or
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Nf
d
)(3):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (d)(3) shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(l) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed or authorized pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property which, on or since the effective date, was held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker or in which there existed an interest of a specially designated narcotics trafficker.

§ 536.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 536.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 536.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 536.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to a specially designated narcotics trafficker, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
[[86 FR 26663, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.204   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
[[86 FR 26664, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.205   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication, which does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication, which does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information and informational materials. (1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of information or informational materials as defined in § 536.306, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions and regulations of this part.
Information and informational materials.
(1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of information or informational materials as defined in § 536.306, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions and regulations of this part.
(2) This section does not authorize transactions related to information and informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services by a U.S. person. Such prohibited transactions include, without limitation, payment of advances for informational materials not yet created and completed, provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create or assist in the creation of information and informational materials, and payment of royalties to a specially designated narcotics trafficker with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to information or informational materials imported from a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(3) This section does not authorize transactions incident to the exportation of technology that is not informational material as defined in § 536.306(b)(1) or incident to the exportation of goods for use in the transmission of any information.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including non-scheduled air, sea, or land voyages. Any transactions entered into by a specially designated narcotics trafficker while traveling in the United States that are outside the scope of those set forth in this paragraph are in violation of § 536.201.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including non-scheduled air, sea, or land voyages. Any transactions entered into by a specially designated narcotics trafficker while traveling in the United States that are outside the scope of those set forth in this paragraph are in violation of § 536.201.

§ 536.206   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 536.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 536.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
[[86 FR 26664, May 17, 2021]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 536.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
[[86 FR 26664, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 536.201 held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 536.201 held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 536.301:
See § 536.312 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more specially designated narcotics traffickers.
See
§ 536.312 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more specially designated narcotics traffickers.
[[86 FR 26664, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part which is 12:01 a.m. EDT, October 22, 1995, or, in the case of specially designated narcotics traffickers designated after that date, the earlier of the date on which a person receives actual or constructive notice of such designation.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part which is 12:01 a.m. EDT, October 22, 1995, or, in the case of specially designated narcotics traffickers designated after that date, the earlier of the date on which a person receives actual or constructive notice of such designation.

§ 536.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group or subgroup.
entity
means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group or subgroup.

§ 536.304   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), wherever located, or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), wherever located, or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
[[86 FR 26664, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.305   [Reserved]


§ 536.306   Information and informational materials.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term information and informational materials means:
information and informational materials
means:
(1) Publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds, and other information and informational articles.
(2) To be considered informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter subheading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The terms information and informational materials with respect to U.S. exports do not include items:
information
and
informational materials
with respect to U.S. exports do not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States, including software as defined in 15 CFR part 772 that is not publicly available (see 15 CFR parts 734 and 772); or
software
as defined in 15 CFR part 772 that is not
publicly available
(see 15 CFR parts 734 and 772); or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 536.307   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 536.308   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac
.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac
.
Note 1 to § 536.308:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
[[86 FR 26664, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 536.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.

§ 536.311   Narcotics trafficking.

The term narcotics trafficking means any activity undertaken illicitly to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance or transport, or otherwise assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others in illicit activities relating to narcotic drugs, including, but not limited to, cocaine.
narcotics trafficking
means any activity undertaken illicitly to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance or transport, or otherwise assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others in illicit activities relating to narcotic drugs, including, but not limited to, cocaine.

§ 536.312   Specially designated narcotics trafficker.

The term specially designated narcotics trafficker means:
specially designated narcotics trafficker
means:
(a) Persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order 12978 of October 24, 1995, as amended;
(b) Foreign persons designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of State, because they are found:
(1) To play a significant role in international narcotics trafficking centered in Colombia; or
(2) Materially to assist in, or provide financial or technological support for or goods or services in support of, the narcotics trafficking activities of specially designated narcotics traffickers;
(c) Persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of State, to be owned or controlled by, or to act for or on behalf of, any other specially designated narcotics trafficker; and
(d) Entities owned in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by one or more specially designated narcotics traffickers.
Note 1 to § 536.312:
The names of persons determined to fall within paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to § 536.201, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[SDNT].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in Appendix A to this chapter. Entities that fall within paragraph (d) of this section are also persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part, whether or not they are identified by OFAC or appear on the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[SDNT].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website
: www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in Appendix A to this chapter. Entities that fall within paragraph (d) of this section are also persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part, whether or not they are identified by OFAC or appear on the SDN List.
Note 2 to § 536.312:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of the property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to § 536.201 are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-SDNT].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-SDNT].”
Note 3 to § 536.312:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a specially designated narcotics trafficker; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 536.312:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[86 FR 26664, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75958, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 536.313   [Reserved]


§ 536.314   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 536.315   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 536.316   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen or national; permanent resident alien; entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches); or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen or national; permanent resident alien; entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches); or any person in the United States.

§ 536.317   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. person (including foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent; including, but not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions which are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. person (including foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent; including, but not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions which are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 536.318   Finance.

The term finance includes engaging in any transaction involving funds, other assets, property, or interest in property, that are derived, obtained, or retained from, directly or indirectly, narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals. This includes the transporting, transmitting, or transferring of any such assets, property, or interests in property that creates the appearance that the funds, assets, or property were legitimately acquired, furthers the illicit activity, conceals or disguises the assets, avoids reporting requirements, or otherwise promotes the carrying on of illicit activity, such as money laundering.
finance
includes engaging in any transaction involving funds, other assets, property, or interest in property, that are derived, obtained, or retained from, directly or indirectly, narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals. This includes the transporting, transmitting, or transferring of any such assets, property, or interests in property that creates the appearance that the funds, assets, or property were legitimately acquired, furthers the illicit activity, conceals or disguises the assets, avoids reporting requirements, or otherwise promotes the carrying on of illicit activity, such as money laundering.
Note 1 to § 536.318:
The definition of finance listed above is specific to this part and not any other parts of Chapter 31. See § 536.101.
See
§ 536.101.
[[86 FR 26665, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.319   Narcotic drug; controlled substance; listed chemical.

The terms narcotic drug, controlled substance, and listed chemical have the meanings given those terms in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
narcotic drug, controlled substance,
and
listed chemical
have the meanings given those terms in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
[[86 FR 26665, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.320   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[[86 FR 26665, May 17, 2021]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 536.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any section of this part or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part shall be deemed to refer to the same as currently amended.

§ 536.402   Effect of amendment.

Any amendment, modification, or revocation of any section of this part or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall not, unless otherwise specifically provided, be deemed to affect any act done or omitted to be done, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license shall continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 536.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a specially designated narcotics trafficker, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property in which a specially designated narcotics trafficker has or has had an interest, or which is held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, unless there exists in the property another interest of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a specially designated narcotics trafficker, such property shall be deemed to be property in which there exists an interest of the specially designated narcotics trafficker.

§ 536.404   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 536.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 536.405   Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except a transaction by an unlicensed, specially designated narcotics trafficker or involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license.

§ 536.406   Provision of services.

(a) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 536.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a specially designated narcotics trafficker; or
(2) With respect to property interests of a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
Note 1 to § 536.406:
See §§ 536.506 and 536.511 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 536.506 and 536.511 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
[[86 FR 26665, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.407   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 536.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 536.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
[[86 FR 26665, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.408   Alleged change in ownership or control of an entity designated as a specially designated narcotics trafficker.

(a) A change or alleged change in ownership or control of an entity designated as a specially designated narcotics trafficker shall not be the basis for removal of that entity from the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List unless, upon investigation by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and submission of evidence by the entity, it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control that the transfer to a bona fide purchaser at arm's length is legitimate and that the entity no longer meets the criteria for designation under § 536.312. Evidence submitted must conclusively demonstrate that all ties with other specially designated narcotics traffickers have been completely severed, and may include, but is not limited to, articles of incorporation; identification of new directors, officers, shareholders, and sources of capital; and contracts evidencing the sale of the entity to its new owners.
(b) Any continuing substantial financial obligations on the part of the new owners to any specially designated narcotics traffickers, including long-term payment plans, leases, or rents, will be considered as evidence of continuing control of the entity by the specially designated narcotics trafficker. Purchase of a designated entity without ongoing substantial financial obligations to a specially designated narcotics trafficker may nonetheless be a basis for subsequent designation of the purchaser, if the transaction is determined materially to assist in or provide financial support for the narcotics trafficking activities of specially designated narcotics traffickers for purposes of § 536.312(b)(2). For example, any acquisition transaction resulting in a direct cash transfer to or other enrichment of a specially designated narcotics trafficker could lead to designation of the purchaser. Mere change in name of an entity will not be considered as constituting a change of the entity's status.
[[62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 38536, June 30, 2011]]

§ 536.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 536.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
[[86 FR 26665, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.410   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, except donations of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to relieve human suffering, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a specially designated narcotics trafficker. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a specially designated narcotics trafficker if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
[[86 FR 26665, May 17, 2021]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 536.501   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, shall be deemed to authorize or validate any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition or prohibitions contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.

§ 536.502   Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.

The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license, or from the privileges therein conferred, or to restrict the applicability thereof with respect to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such action shall be binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of such exclusion or restriction.

§ 536.503   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

(a) Any payment of funds or transfer of credit or other financial or economic resources or assets into a blocked account in a U.S. financial institution is authorized, provided that a transfer from a blocked account pursuant to this authorization may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name on the books of the same U.S. financial institution.
(b) This section does not authorize any transfer from a blocked account within the United States to an account held outside the United States.
Note to § 536.503:
Please refer to § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
[[62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997]]

§ 536.504   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

(a) U.S. financial institutions are hereby authorized and directed to invest and reinvest assets held in blocked accounts in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, subject to the following conditions:
(1) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or sub-account which is in the name of the specially designated narcotics trafficker and which is located in the United States or within the possession or control of a U.S. person; and
(2) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments are not credited to a blocked account or sub-account under any name or designation which differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or sub-account in which such funds or securities were held; and
(3) No immediate financial or economic benefit or access accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to the specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(b)(1) U.S. persons seeking to avail themselves of this authorization must register with the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Blocked Assets Division, before undertaking transactions authorized under this section.
(2) Transactions conducted pursuant to this section must be reported to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, Blocked Assets Division, in a report filed no later than 10 business days following the last business day of the month in which the transactions occurred.

§ 536.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) U.S. financial institutions are hereby authorized to debit any blocked account with such U.S. financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed to such U.S. financial institution by the owner of such blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charge shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photostats, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, check books, and other similar items.
normal service charge
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photostats, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, check books, and other similar items.

§ 536.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of specially designated narcotics traffickers is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 536.507 or 536.508, which authorize certain payments for legal services; via specific licenses; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to specially designated narcotics traffickers not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this paragraph. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 536.405.
See
§ 536.405.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 536.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 536.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available
[[86 FR 26665, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 536.506(a) to or on behalf of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 536.506(a) to or on behalf of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 536.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which a specially designated narcotics trafficker, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[86 FR 26666, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 103642, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 536.508   Payment of legal fees and expenses at public expense.

U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to receive payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses from public funds for the provision of legal services authorized by § 536.506(a).
[[86 FR 26666, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.509   Certain transactions for maintenance, employment, and related banking services for blocked individuals physically located in the United States.

(a) Individuals who are specially designated narcotics traffickers who are in U.S. custody or incarcerated in jails, prisons, or similar facilities in the United States (“covered individuals”), are authorized to engage in the following transactions within the United States:
(1) Purchasing, making payment for, and receiving goods and services for their maintenance and the maintenance of their spouse or persons who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with them, located in the United States, including food, clothing, housing, medical care, education, transportation, insurance, and utilities;
(2) Obtaining or continuing employment and engaging in all transactions ordinarily incident to such employment, including receipt of salary and benefits;
(3) Establishing accounts with a U.S. financial institution, or a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility, located in the United States, for use in connection with the transactions authorized in paragraph (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and
(4) Receiving and making funds transfers in furtherance of the authorized transactions set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section from unblocked funds originating within or outside the United States, provided that any funds received may not originate from any individual or entity whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute, other than the covered individual or his or her spouse or persons who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with the covered individual.
(b) Any financial institution that has established any account pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, excluding commissary-type accounts with prisons, jails, or other similar facilities, must provide the name and address of the financial institution, the name of the account holder, and the account number to OFAC within 10 business days of the establishment of the account.
(c) This general license does not authorize any funds transfers to any location outside the United States.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
):
A covered individual has an interest in any funds remaining in a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility established pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section after the covered individual is released from custody or incarceration.
Note 2 to paragraph (
c
):
In the case of individuals who are in custody or incarcerated, funds transfers must be authorized by and consistent with the conditions, protocols, and other requirements established by the jail, prison, or other facility.
Note 3 to § 536.509:
The authorization in this section only applies to laws and regulations administered by OFAC and should not be interpreted to excuse compliance with other applicable laws or regulations, including the immigration laws of the United States.
[[86 FR 26666, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.510   Certain transactions for the expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property.

(a) Specially designated narcotics traffickers are authorized to engage in the following transactions:
(1) Making payment for and receiving goods and services for the maintenance of blocked tangible property required pursuant to § 536.206; and
(2) Receiving and making funds transfers in furtherance of the authorized transactions set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from unblocked funds originating outside the United States, provided that any funds received may not originate from any individual or entity whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute, other than the specially designated narcotics trafficker(s), who owns the property.
(b)(1) Any person making payment for or receiving goods and services for the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 536.201 and authorized by paragraph (a)(1) of this section must file a report on the transactions with OFAC within 30 days of the first transaction related to that property and annually thereafter. Such reports shall include the following numbered sections and information:
(i) Estimated or actual dollar value of the transaction(s), as determined by the value of the payment, goods, or services;
(ii) A description of the blocked property;
(iii) The parties involved;
(iv) The type and scope of transactions conducted; and
(v) The dates and duration of the transactions.
(2) The reports, which must reference this section, are to be submitted to OFAC via email to OFACReport@treasury.gov.
OFACReport@treasury.gov
.
[[86 FR 26667, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 536.511   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
[[86 FR 26667, May 17, 2021]]

§ 536.512   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78471, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 536.513   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78471, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 536.514   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a specially designated narcotics trafficker, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects to directly benefit the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 536.514.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78484, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 536.515   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual who is a specially designated narcotics trafficker are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 536.515.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78485, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 536.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to records and reports, see subpart C of part 501 of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 536.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705—the “Act”), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Act.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in Section 206 of the Act may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under the Act.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of the Act is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or representations or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 29252, May 22, 2006; 73 FR 32652, June 10, 2008; 81 FR 43074, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10436, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11878, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27716, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19886, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14537, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7371, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2232, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2141, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 536.702   Prepenalty notice.

(a) When required. If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, they shall issue to the person concerned a notice of their intent to impose a monetary penalty. The prepenalty notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, they shall issue to the person concerned a notice of their intent to impose a monetary penalty. The prepenalty notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
(b) Contents—(1) Facts of violation. The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
Contents
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2) Right to respond. The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to respond to the notice within 30 days of its mailing as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed, or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Right to respond.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to respond to the notice within 30 days of its mailing as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed, or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
[[62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 536.703   Response to prepenalty notice.

(a) Time within which to respond. The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to respond in writing to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Time within which to respond.
The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to respond in writing to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(b) Form and contents of written response. The written response need not be in any particular form, but shall contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should respond to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the person believes the penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Form and contents of written response.
The written response need not be in any particular form, but shall contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should respond to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the person believes the penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(c) Informal settlement. In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent is not required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Informal settlement.
In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent is not required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 536.704   Penalty notice.

(a) No violation. If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
No violation.
If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
(b) Violation. If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty or other available disposition on the respondent.
Violation.
If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty or other available disposition on the respondent.

§ 536.705   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the respondent does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the mailing of the written notice of the imposition of the penalty, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 536.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45107, Aug. 25, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 53657, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 536.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 12978 or any further executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12978 may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[62 FR 9960, Mar. 5, 1997. Redesignated at 62 FR 45108, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 536.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, to licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and to other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
[[62 FR 45108, Aug. 25, 1997]]

PART 539—WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION TRADE CONTROL REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 2751-2799aa-2; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12938, 59 FR 59099, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 950; E.O. 13094, 63 FR 40803, 3 CFR, 1998 Comp., p. 200; E.O. 13382, 70 FR 38567, 3 CFR, 2005 Comp., p. 170.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 2751-2799aa-2; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12938, 59 FR 59099, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 950; E.O. 13094, 63 FR 40803, 3 CFR, 1998 Comp., p. 200; E.O. 13382, 70 FR 38567, 3 CFR, 2005 Comp., p. 170.
[Source:64 FR 8716, Feb. 23, 1999, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
64 FR 8716, Feb. 23, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 539.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the provisions of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.
(b) No license contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 539.201   Prohibited importation of goods, technology, or services.

Except as otherwise authorized, the importation into the United States, on or after the effective date, directly or indirectly, of any goods, technology, or services produced or provided by a designated foreign person, other than information or informational materials, is prohibited.

§ 539.202   Prohibition on import-related transactions.

Except as otherwise authorized, no United States person may finance, act as broker for, transfer, transport, or otherwise participate in the importation into the United States on or after the effective date of any goods, technology, or services produced or provided by a designated foreign person, other than information or informational materials.

§ 539.203   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

Any transaction by any United States person or within the United States on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited. Any conspiracy formed for the purpose of engaging in a transaction prohibited by this part is prohibited.

§ 539.204   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication, which does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication, which does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information or informational materials. (1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country, or to the exportation to any country, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, of any information or informational materials as defined in § 539.308, or any transaction directly incident to such importation or exportation.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country, or to the exportation to any country, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, of any information or informational materials as defined in § 539.308, or any transaction directly incident to such importation or exportation.
(2) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not exempt from regulation or authorize transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transaction, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Examples of prohibited transactions include, but are not limited to, payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for mass-market magazines and other periodical publications that are widely-circulated); importation into the United States of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties to a designated foreign person with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to informational or informational materials imported from a designated foreign person.
(3) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not exempt from regulation or authorize the importation into the United States of or transactions incident to the importation into the United States or leasing of telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite links or dedicated lines) for use in the transmission of any data.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 539.301   Designated foreign person.

The term designated foreign person means any person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be subject to import measures pursuant to section 4(a) of Executive Order (E.O.) 12938 of November 14, 1994, as amended by E.O. 13094 of July 28, 1998 and E.O. 13382 of June 28, 2005.
designated foreign person
means any person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be subject to import measures pursuant to section 4(a) of Executive Order (E.O.) 12938 of November 14, 1994, as amended by E.O. 13094 of July 28, 1998 and E.O. 13382 of June 28, 2005.
Note 1 to § 539.301.
The Department of State publishes in the Federal Register the names of persons determined to be subject to import measures pursuant to section 4(a) of E.O. 12938, as amended, and maintains a list of such persons accessible through the following page on the Department of State's website: https://www.state.gov/key-topics-bureau-of-international-security-and-nonproliferation/nonproliferation-sanctions/.
Federal Register
the names of persons determined to be subject to import measures pursuant to section 4(a) of E.O. 12938, as amended, and maintains a list of such persons accessible through the following page on the Department of State's website:
https://www.state.gov/key-topics-bureau-of-international-security-and-nonproliferation/nonproliferation-sanctions/.
[[86 FR 73106, Dec. 27, 2021]]

§ 539.302   Effective date.

The term effective date means the “effective date” specified in the relevant Federal Register notice issued by the Department of State identifying a designated foreign person.
effective date
means the “effective date” specified in the relevant
Federal Register
notice issued by the Department of State identifying a designated foreign person.
[[64 FR 8716, Feb. 23, 1999, as amended at 86 FR 73106, Dec. 27, 2021]]

§ 539.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization.

§ 539.304   Entity owned or controlled by a designated foreign person.

The term entity owned or controlled by a designated foreign person includes any subsidiaries and branches, wherever located, of entities that are designated foreign persons, any successors to such entities, and any persons acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing.
entity owned or controlled by a designated foreign person
includes any subsidiaries and branches, wherever located, of entities that are designated foreign persons, any successors to such entities, and any persons acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of any of the foregoing.
[[64 FR 8716, Feb. 23, 1999, as amended at 86 FR 73106, Dec. 27, 2021]]

§ 539.305   General license.

The term general license means any license the terms of which are set forth in this part.
general license
means any license the terms of which are set forth in this part.

§ 539.306   Goods, technology, or services produced or provided by a designated foreign person.

With respect to the prohibitions in §§ 539.201 and 539.202, the term goods, technology, or services produced or provided by a designated foreign person includes but is not limited to the following:
goods, technology, or services produced or provided by a designated foreign person
includes but is not limited to the following:
(a) Goods grown, manufactured, extracted, or processed by a designated foreign person;
(b) Technology developed, owned, licensed, or otherwise controlled by a designated foreign person;
(c) Services performed by or on behalf of a designated foreign person, or by a third party under contract, directly or indirectly, to a designated foreign person, regardless of location.

§ 539.307   Importation into the United States.

The term importation into the United States means:
importation into the United States
means:
(a) With respect to goods or technology, the bringing of any goods or technology into the United States, except that in the case of goods or technology being transported by vessel, importation into the United States means the bringing of any goods or technology into the United States with the intent to unlade. See also § 539.404.
importation into the United States
means the bringing of any goods or technology into the United States with the intent to unlade. See also § 539.404.
(b) With respect to services, the receipt in the United States of services or of the benefit of services wherever such services may be performed. The benefit of services is received in the United States if the services are:
(1) Performed on behalf of or for the benefit of a person located in the United States;
(2) Received by a person located in the United States;
(3) Received by a person located outside the United States on behalf of or for the benefit of an entity organized in the United States; or
(4) Received by an individual temporarily located outside the United States for the purpose of obtaining such services for use in the United States.
(c) The following example illustrates the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section:
Example:
An employee of an entity organized in the United States may not, without specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control, receive from a designated foreign person consulting services for use in the United States.

§ 539.308   Information or informational materials.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term information or informational materials includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(b) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.

§ 539.309   License.

Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.

§ 539.310   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 539.311   Specific license.

The term specific license means any license not set forth in this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license not set forth in this part but issued pursuant to this part.

§ 539.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 539.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person or U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 539.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 539.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 539.403   Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect to the licensed transaction is also authorized by the license. Except as specifically authorized by the terms of the license, prohibited transactions involving designated foreign persons not named in the license are not considered incidental to a licensed transaction and therefore remain prohibited.

§ 539.404   Transshipments through the United States prohibited.

(a) The prohibitions in §§ 539.201 and 539.202 apply to the importation into the United States, for transshipment or transit, of goods, technology, or services produced or provided by a designated foreign person that are intended or destined for third countries.
(b) In the case of goods or technology transported by vessel, the prohibitions in §§ 539.201 and 539.202 apply to the unlading in the United States and the intent to unlade in the United States of goods or technology produced or provided by a designated foreign person that is intended or destined for third countries.

§ 539.405   Importation of goods or technology from third countries.

Importation into the United States from third countries of goods or technology is prohibited if undertaken with knowledge or reason to know that those goods contain raw materials or components produced or provided by a designated foreign person or technology produced or provided by a designated foreign person.

§ 539.406   Importation into and release from a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone.

The prohibitions in §§ 539.201 and 539.202 apply to importation into a bonded warehouse or a foreign trade zone of the United States.

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 539.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[[64 FR 8716, Feb. 23, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 53658, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 539.502   Effect of license.

(a) No license contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless the prior transaction is specifically authorized in such license.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part authorizes any transaction prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited by this part has the effect of removing from the transaction a prohibition or prohibitions contained in this part, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law in or with respect to any property.

§ 539.503   Exclusion from licenses.

The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 539.504   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78472, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 539.505   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78472, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 539.506   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 539.506.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78485, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 539.507   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 539.507.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78485, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 539.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 539.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (the “Act”) (50 U.S.C. 1705), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Act.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in Section 206 of the Act may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under the Act.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of the Act is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[64 FR 8716, Feb. 23, 1999, as amended at 71 FR 29253, May 22, 2006; 73 FR 32653, June 10, 2008; 81 FR 43074, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10437, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11879, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27716, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19886, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14537, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7371, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2232, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2141, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 539.702   Prepenalty notice.

(a) When required. If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue to the person concerned a notice of intent to impose a monetary penalty. This prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue to the person concerned a notice of intent to impose a monetary penalty. This prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
(b) Contents—(1) Facts of violation. The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
Contents
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2) Right to respond. The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to make a written presentation within 30 days of the date of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Right to respond.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to make a written presentation within 30 days of the date of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.

§ 539.703   Response to prepenalty notice; informal settlement.

(a) Deadline for response. The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to make a written response to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Deadline for response.
The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to make a written response to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(b) Form and contents of response. The written response need not be in any particular form, but must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should contain responses to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Form and contents of response.
The written response need not be in any particular form, but must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should contain responses to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(c) Informal settlement. In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice issued pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the claim proposed in the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent is not required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Informal settlement.
In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice issued pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the claim proposed in the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent is not required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 539.704   Penalty imposition or withdrawal.

(a) No violation. If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
No violation.
If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
(b) Violation. If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty to the respondent.
Violation.
If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty to the respondent.
(1) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent that payment of the assessed penalty must be made within 30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice.
(2) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent of the requirement to furnish the respondent's taxpayer identification number pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701 and that such number will be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent penalty amount.

§ 539.705   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the respondent does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 539.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[[64 FR 8716, Feb. 23, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 53658, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 539.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 12938 of November 14, 1994 (59 FR 59099, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 950), as amended by Executive Order 13094 of July 28, 1998 (63 FR 40803, July 30, 1998), and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12938 may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 539.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 544—WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION PROLIFERATORS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12938, 59 FR 59099, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 950; E.O. 13094, 63 FR 40803, 3 CFR, 1998 Comp., p. 200; E.O. 13382, 70 FR 38567, 3 CFR, 2005 Comp., p. 170.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12938, 59 FR 59099, 3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 950; E.O. 13094, 63 FR 40803, 3 CFR, 1998 Comp., p. 200; E.O. 13382, 70 FR 38567, 3 CFR, 2005 Comp., p. 170.
[Source:74 FR 16773, Apr. 13, 2009, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
74 FR 16773, Apr. 13, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 544.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note to § 544.101:
The sanctions implemented pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Trade Control Regulations set forth in part 539 of this chapter are separate and distinct from the sanctions implemented pursuant to this part, even though both programs have been imposed pursuant to the same declaration of national emergency in Executive Order 12938 of November 14, 1994. Accordingly, a “designated foreign person” whose goods, technology, or services are prohibited from being imported into the United States under part 539 is not necessarily a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a). Consequently, the property and interests in property of a “designated foreign person” under part 539 are not blocked, unless the “designated foreign person” has separately become a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) or any other part of 31 CFR chapter V. Note, however, that the importation into the United States of goods, technology, or services (other than information or informational materials) produced or provided by a “designated foreign person” under part 539 is prohibited by that part.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 544.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) Except as authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of U.S. persons, including their overseas branches, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Any person listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13382 of June 28, 2005 (70 FR 38567, July 1, 2005);
(2) Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and other relevant agencies, to have engaged, or attempted to engage, in activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a risk of materially contributing to, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or their means of delivery (including missiles capable of delivering such weapons), including any efforts to manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, transport, transfer or use such items, by any person or foreign country of proliferation concern;
(3) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and other relevant agencies, to have provided, or attempted to provide, financial, material, technological or other support for, or goods or services in support of, any activity or transaction described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; and
(4) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and other relevant agencies, to be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
The names of persons listed in or designated pursuant to Executive Order 13382, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's (OFAC) Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[NPWMD].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to E.O. 13382 for activities involving North Korea or for activities involving persons designated pursuant to a North Korea sanctions authority may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. Pursuant to 31 CFR 510.214 (the North Korea Sanctions Regulations (NKSR)), persons owned or controlled by a U.S. financial institution are subject to certain prohibitions under the NKSR; as a result, the entries of persons blocked pursuant to E.O. 13382 in connection with North Korea-related activities will also include the descriptive prefix text “Transactions Prohibited For Persons Owned or Controlled By U.S. Financial Institutions:”, followed by information about the applicable sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 544.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's (OFAC) Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[NPWMD].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to E.O. 13382 for activities involving North Korea or for activities involving persons designated pursuant to a North Korea sanctions authority may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. Pursuant to 31 CFR 510.214 (the North Korea Sanctions Regulations (NKSR)), persons owned or controlled by a U.S. financial institution are subject to certain prohibitions under the NKSR; as a result, the entries of persons blocked pursuant to E.O. 13382 in connection with North Korea-related activities will also include the descriptive prefix text “Transactions Prohibited For Persons Owned or Controlled By U.S. Financial Institutions:”, followed by information about the applicable sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 544.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
) of § 544.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this paragraph (a), the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-NPWMD].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-NPWMD].”
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include, but are not limited to, prohibitions on the following transactions when engaged in by a United States person or within the United States:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless otherwise authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes but is not limited to the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any such security on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such security may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the security.
[[74 FR 16773, Apr. 13, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 38537, June 30, 2011; 85 FR 61824, Oct. 1, 2020; 89 FR 75959, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 544.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of IEEPA, Executive Order 13382, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
) of § 544.202:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which, on or since the effective date, there existed an interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a).

§ 544.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 544.201(a) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to this paragraph (b) may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 544.201(a) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraphs (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 544.201(a) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 544.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) may, in the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 544.205   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any transaction by a U.S. person or within the United States on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 544.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information or informational materials. (1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 544.304, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions of this part.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 544.304, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions of this part.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation or authorize transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include, but are not limited to, payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and, with respect to information or informational materials imported from persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt or authorize transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730-774, or to the exportation of goods, technology, or software for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) are prohibited.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 544.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 544.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 544.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
Note to § 544.301:
See § 544.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a).
[[74 FR 16773, Apr. 13, 2009, as amended at 87 FR 78473, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 544.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, June 29, 2005; and
(b) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4), the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice of such person's designation.

§ 544.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 544.304   Information or informational materials.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term information or informational materials includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD-ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD-ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
Note to paragraph (
a
) of § 544.304:
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials
, with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 544.305   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 544.306   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
Note to § 544.306:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 544.307   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 544.308   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
property and property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.

§ 544.309   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 544.310   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 544.311   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent; including but not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent; including but not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 544.312   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 544.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 544.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 544.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) or any other part of this chapter, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 544.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a); or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(c) Example. A license authorizing Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), to complete a securities sale also authorizes all activities by other parties required to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, banks, etc., provided that such other parties are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a).
Example.
A license authorizing Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), to complete a securities sale also authorizes all activities by other parties required to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, banks, etc., provided that such other parties are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a).

§ 544.405   Provision of services.

(a) Except as provided in § 544.206, the prohibitions on transactions involving blocked property contained in § 544.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests subject to § 544.201.
(b) Example: U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a).
Example:
U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a).
Note to § 544.405:
See §§ 544.507 and 544.508 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and medical services.

§ 544.406   Offshore transactions.

The prohibitions in § 544.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), or property in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) has or has had an interest since the effective date.

§ 544.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 544.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

§ 544.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a). For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) if made by, to, or in the name of such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person.

§ 544.409   Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.

The prohibition in § 544.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including, but not limited to, charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a U.S. financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a).

§ 544.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 544.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 544.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[[87 FR 78473, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 544.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.

§ 544.502   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.

§ 544.503   Exclusion from licenses.

The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 544.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 544.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 544.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 544.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 544.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 544.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 544.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a).

§ 544.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 544.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 544.404.
See
§ 544.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 544.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
[[87 FR 8734, Feb. 16, 2022]]

§ 544.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 544.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 544.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 544.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a), any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 8734, Feb. 16. 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103642, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 544.509   Authorization of emergency medical services.

The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 544.201(a) is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.
[[74 FR 16773, Apr. 13, 2009. Redesignated at 87 FR 8734, Feb. 16, 2022]]

§ 544.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78473, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 544.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78473, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 544.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 544.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78487, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 544.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 544.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78487, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 544.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 544.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (“IEEPA”), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry; shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[74 FR 16773, Apr. 13, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 43075, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10437, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11879, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27717, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19887, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14537, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7372, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2232, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2142, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 544.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 544.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 544.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 544.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 544.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13382 of June 28, 2005 (70 FR 38567, July 1, 2005), and any further Executive Orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12938 of November 14, 1994, as expanded by Executive Order 13094 of July 28, 1998, and with respect to which additional steps were taken in Executive Order 13382 of June 28, 2005, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 544.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 546—SUDAN STABILIZATION SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13067, 62 FR 59989, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 230; E.O. 13400, 71 FR 25483, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 220; E.O. 14098, 88 FR 29529.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13067, 62 FR 59989, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 230; E.O. 13400, 71 FR 25483, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 220; E.O. 14098, 88 FR 29529.
[Source:74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 546.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 546.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) E.O. 13400 Annex. The persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13400 of April 26, 2006.
E.O. 13400 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13400 of April 26, 2006.
(2) E.O. 13400. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13400.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To have constituted a threat to the peace process in Darfur;
(ii) To have constituted a threat to stability in Darfur and the region;
(iii) To be responsible for conduct related to the conflict in Darfur that violates international law;
(iv) To be responsible for heinous conduct with respect to human life or limb related to the conflict in Darfur;
(v) To have directly or indirectly supplied, sold, or transferred arms or any related materiel, or any assistance, advice, or training related to military activities to:
(A) The Government of Sudan;
(B) The Sudan Liberation Movement/Army;
(C) The Justice and Equality Movement;
(D) The Janjaweed; or
(E) Any person (other than a person listed in paragraph (a)(2)(v)(A) through (D) of this section) operating in the states of North Darfur, South Darfur, or West Darfur that is a belligerent, a nongovernmental entity, or an individual;
(vi) To be responsible for offensive military overflights in and over the Darfur region;
(vii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (2) of this section; or
(viii) To be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (2) of this section.
(3) E.O. 14098. Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 14098.
Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for, or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Sudan;
(B) Actions or policies that obstruct, undermine, delay, or impede, or pose a significant risk of obstructing, undermining, delaying, or impeding, the formation or operation of a civilian transitional government, Sudan's transition to democracy, or a future democratically elected government;
(C) Actions or policies that have the purpose or effect of undermining democratic processes or institutions in Sudan;
(D) Censorship or other actions or policies that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedoms of expression, association, or peaceful assembly by individuals in Sudan, or that limit access to free and independent news or information in or with respect to Sudan;
(E) Corruption, including bribery, misappropriation of state assets, and interference with public processes such as government oversight of parastatal budgets and revenues for personal benefit;
(F) Serious human rights abuse, including serious human rights abuse related to political repression, in or with respect to Sudan;
(G) The targeting of women, children, or any other civilians through the commission of acts of violence (including killing, maiming, torture, or rape or other sexual violence), abduction, forced displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or through conduct that would constitute a serious abuse or violation of human rights or a violation of international humanitarian law;
(H) The obstruction of the activities of United Nations missions—including peacekeeping missions, as well as diplomatic or humanitarian missions—in Sudan, or of the delivery of, distribution of, or access to humanitarian assistance; or
(I) Attacks against United Nations missions, including peacekeeping operations;
(ii) To be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of any entity:
(A) That has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section relating to the tenure of such leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors; or
(B) Whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order relating to the tenure of such leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors;
(iii) To be a spouse or adult child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
(v) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in this section include, but are not limited to, prohibitions on the following transactions when engaged in by a United States person or within the United States:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless otherwise authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes but is not limited to the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any such security on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such security may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the security.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, rulings, instructions, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after May 4, 2023 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13067 of November 3, 1997 and expanded by E.O. 13400 of April 26, 2006 and E.O. 14098 of May 4, 2023 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 546.201:
The names of persons listed in, or designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13067, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13400: “[DARFUR]”; for E.O. 14098: “[SUDAN-EO14098]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13067 using the identifier formulation “[SUDAN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 546.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13400: “[DARFUR]”; for E.O. 14098: “[SUDAN-EO14098]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13067 using the identifier formulation “[SUDAN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 546.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 546.201:
Section 203 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13400: “[BPI-DARFUR]”; for E.O. 14098, “[BPI-SUDAN-EO14098]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13067: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-SUDAN-[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13400: “[BPI-DARFUR]”; for E.O. 14098, “[BPI-SUDAN-EO14098]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13067: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-SUDAN-[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 546.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 546.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[89 FR 15746, Mar. 5, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 75959, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 546.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 546.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 546.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with the OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15747, Mar. 5, 2024; 89 FR 67557, Aug. 21, 2024]]

§ 546.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 546.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to this paragraph (b) may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 546.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 546.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024; 89 FR 67557, Aug. 21, 2024]]

§ 546.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 546.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 546.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
[[89 FR 15747, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) United Nations Participation Act. The exemptions described in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA).
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions described in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on both OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (see https://www.un.org), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on both the SDN List and the UN List.
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (
see https://www.un.org
), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on
both
the SDN List and the UN List.
(b) International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
(c) Official business. The prohibitions contained in § 546.201(a)(3) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or the United Nations (and its Specialized Agencies, Programmes, Funds, and Related Organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 546.201(a)(3) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or the United Nations (and its Specialized Agencies, Programmes, Funds, and Related Organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Note 2 to § 546.206:
See § 546.510 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government not otherwise exempt.
See
§ 546.510 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government not otherwise exempt.
Note 3 to § 546.206:
See § 546.511 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of certain international organizations and entities not otherwise exempt.
[[89 FR 15747, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 546.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
[[89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.301   Arms or any related materiel.

The term arms or any related materiel shall mean arms or related materiel of all types, military aircraft, and equipment, but excludes:
arms or any related materiel
shall mean arms or related materiel of all types, military aircraft, and equipment, but excludes:
(a) Supplies and technical assistance, including training, intended solely for use in authorized monitoring, verification, or peace support operations, including such operations led by regional organizations;
(b) Supplies of non-lethal military equipment intended solely for humanitarian use, human rights monitoring use, or protective use, and related technical assistance, including training;
(c) Supplies of protective clothing, including flak jackets and military helmets, for use by United Nations personnel, representatives of the media, and humanitarian and development workers and associated personnel, for their personal use only;
(d) Assistance and supplies provided in support of implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement signed January 9, 2005, by the Government of Sudan and the People's Liberation Movement/Army; and
(e) Other movements of military equipment and supplies into the Darfur region by the United States or that are permitted by a rule or decision of the Secretary of State, after consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 546.302   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 546.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 546.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 546.302:
See § 546.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 87 FR 78473, Dec. 21, 2022; 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.303   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, April 27, 2006;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 546.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
[[89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.304   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 546.305   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support  means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
[[77 FR 6465, Feb. 8, 2012. Redesignated and amended at 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.306   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any person that is not a U.S. person.
foreign person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.
[[89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.307   [Reserved]


§ 546.308   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009. Redesignated at 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.309   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov/.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov/.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
[[89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.310   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[[89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.311   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009. Redesignated at 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.312   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.313   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it  shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it  shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.314   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009. Redesignated at 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.315   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
[[89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.316   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009. Redesignated at 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 546.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise specified.
[[89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.
[[89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 546.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 546.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15748, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
[[89 FR 15749, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.405   Provision of services.

(a) The prohibitions on transactions involving blocked property contained in § 546.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests subject to § 546.201.
(b) Example. U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
Example.
U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
Note to § 546.405:
See §§ 546.507 and 546.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal or medical services.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15749, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.406   Offshore transactions.

The prohibitions in § 546.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, or property in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201 has or has had an interest since the effective date.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 546.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

§ 546.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201 if made by, to, or in the name of such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.409   Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.

The prohibition in § 546.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including, but not limited to, charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a U.S. financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 546.201 if effected after the effective date.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15749, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[[87 FR 78474, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 546.412   Entities of which one or more blocked persons is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.

(a) The property and interests in property of an entity, including any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of a governmental entity, are not blocked solely because one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201 is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 546.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
See
§ 546.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized or exempt pursuant to this part, engage in the following transactions with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201: enter into contracts that are signed by a blocked person, enter into negotiations with a blocked person, or process transactions, directly or indirectly, on behalf of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201. However, U.S. persons are not prohibited from engaging in a routine interaction with an agency in which a blocked person is an official, but which does not involve the blocked person directly or indirectly.
Note 2 to § 546.412:
OFAC encourages U.S. persons to be cautious in engaging in transactions with any entity of which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201 is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control to ensure that U.S. persons are not engaged in transactions, directly or indirectly, with a blocked person, except as authorized or exempt pursuant to this part.
[[89 FR 15749, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 546.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Sudan Stabilization Sanctions Regulations sanctions page on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15749, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
[[89 FR 15749, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 546.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 546.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 546.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 546.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 546.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 546.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 546.404.
See
§ 546.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 546.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 546.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
[[89 FR 15750, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 546.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 546.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 546.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 546.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with § 501.601 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for five years from the date of the relevant payment a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with § 501.601 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for five years from the date of the relevant payment a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
(3) These records must be furnished to OFAC on demand consistent with § 501.602 of this chapter.
[[89 FR 15750, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
[[89 FR 15750, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78474, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 89 FR 15749, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies;
(5) The Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD);
(6) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; and
(7) The African Union, including the African Union Commission and other subsidiary bodies and organs.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78474, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 89 FR 15749, as amended at 89 FR 15750, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 546.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78487, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 89 FR 15749, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates, and the extraction, processing, transport, sale, or distribution of water in Sudan.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to Sudan or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to Sudan, or to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use, are authorized.
(b) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the extraction, processing, transport, sale, or distribution of water, including the maintenance or repair of water pipelines, are authorized.
(c) For the purposes of this general license, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. Agricultural commodities are products:
Agricultural commodities.
Agricultural commodities are products:
(i) That fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use in Sudan as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. Medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
Medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. A medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
A medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 546.513:
This general license does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[89 FR 15750, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 546.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 546.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5(b) of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to Section 5(a) of the UNPA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 and, if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[89 FR 15751, Mar. 5, 2024, as amended at 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 546.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice,
see
appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response,
see
appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement,
see
appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[89 FR 15751, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a written Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 67557, Aug. 21, 2024]]

§ 546.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 546.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq);
et seq
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
see
appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 546.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 546.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13400, Executive Order 14098, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[74 FR 25432, May 28, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 15752, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 546.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to record keeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 547—DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13413, 71 FR 64105, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 247; E.O. 13671, 79 FR 39949, 3 CFR, 2015 Comp., p. 280.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13413, 71 FR 64105, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 247; E.O. 13671, 79 FR 39949, 3 CFR, 2015 Comp., p. 280.
[Source:74 FR 25441, May 28, 2009, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
74 FR 25441, May 28, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 547.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions

[Source:83 FR 57310, Nov. 15, 2018, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
83 FR 57310, Nov. 15, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

§ 547.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) The persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13413 of October 27, 2006; and
(2) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be a political or military leader of a foreign armed group operating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo that impedes the disarmament, demobilization, voluntary repatriation, resettlement, or reintegration of combatants;
(ii) To be a political or military leader of a Congolese armed group that impedes the disarmament, demobilization, voluntary repatriation, resettlement, or reintegration of combatants;
(iii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following in or in relation to the Democratic Republic of the Congo:
(A) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
(B) Actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
(C) The targeting of women, children, or any civilians through the commission of acts of violence (including killing, maiming, torture, or rape or other sexual violence), abduction, forced displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or through conduct that would constitute a serious abuse or violation of human rights or a violation of international humanitarian law;
(D) The use or recruitment of children by armed groups or armed forces in the context of the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
(E) The obstruction of the delivery or distribution of, or access to, humanitarian assistance;
(F) Attacks against United Nations missions, international security presences, or other peacekeeping operations; or
(G) Support to persons, including armed groups, involved in activities that threaten the peace, security, or stability of the Democratic Republic of the Congo or that undermine democratic processes or institutions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, through the illicit trade in natural resources of the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
(iv) Except where intended for the authorized support of humanitarian activities or the authorized use by or support of peacekeeping, international, or government forces, to have directly or indirectly supplied, sold, or transferred to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or been the recipient in the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo of, arms and related materiel, including military aircraft and equipment, or advice, training, or assistance, including financing and financial assistance, related to military activities;
(v) To be a leader of:
(A) An entity, including any armed group, that has, or whose members have, engaged in any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section; or
(B) An entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section;
(vi) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(vii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
The names of persons listed in or designated pursuant to Executive Order 13413, both as originally issued and as amended by Executive Order 13671, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[DRCONGO].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 547.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[DRCONGO].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 547.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this paragraph (a), the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-DRCONGO].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-DRCONGO].”
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[[83 FR 57310, Nov. 15, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 75959, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 547.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interests in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note 1 to paragraph (
d
):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a).

§ 547.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 547.201(a) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 547.201(a) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 547.201(a) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 547.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 547.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 547.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) United Nations Participation Act. The exemptions described in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions described in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on both OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (see https://www.un.org) as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on both the SDN List and the UN List.
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (see
https://www.un.org
) as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on
both
the SDN List and the UN List.
(b) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(c) Information or informational materials. (1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 547.314, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 547.314, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) are prohibited.
(d) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 547.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
[[83 FR 57312, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.301   Arms and related materiel.

The term arms and related materiel means arms or related materiel of all types, including military aircraft and equipment, but excludes:
arms and related materiel
means arms or related materiel of all types, including military aircraft and equipment, but excludes:
(a) Supplies of arms and related materiel, technical training, and assistance intended solely for support of or use by units of the army and police of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, provided that said units:
(1) Have completed the process of their integration; or
(2) Operate under the command, respectively, of the état-major intégré of the Armed Forces or of the National Police of the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
(3) Are in the process of their integration in the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo outside the provinces of North and South Kivu and the Ituri district; and
(4) The supplies of arms and related materiel, technical training, and assistance described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section are delivered or provided only to receiving sites as designated by the Government of National Unity and Transition, in coordination with the United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), and advance notification of such delivery or provision is provided to the Secretary of State;
(b) Supplies of arms and related materiel, as well as technical training and assistance intended solely for support of or use by MONUC;
(c) Supplies of non-lethal military equipment, and related technical assistance and training, intended solely for humanitarian or protective use, following advance notification to the Secretary of State; and
(d) Supplies of arms and related materiel, training, and technical assistance intended solely for support of or use by the European Union force deployed to support MONUC.
[[74 FR 25441, May 28, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 57312, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.302   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 547.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 547.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 547.302:
See § 547.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a).
[[83 FR 57312, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.303   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on October 30, 2006; and
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
[[83 FR 57312, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.304   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 547.305   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 547.306   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 547.306:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
[[83 FR 57312, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.307   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 547.308   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers' acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers' acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.

§ 547.309   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 547.310   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 547.311   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
[[83 FR 57313, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.312   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 547.313   Financial, material, logistical, or technological support.

The term financial, material, logistical, or technological support, as used in § 547.201(a)(2)(vi), means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, logistical, or technological support,
as used in § 547.201(a)(2)(vi), means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
[[83 FR 57313, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.314   Information or informational materials.

(a)(1) The term information or informational materials includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(2) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.
[[83 FR 57313, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.315   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[[83 FR 57313, Nov. 15, 2018]]

Subpart D—Interpretations

[Source:83 FR 57313, Nov. 15, 2018, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
83 FR 57313, Nov. 15, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

§ 547.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 547.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 547.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 547.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a); or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a).

§ 547.405   Provision of services.

(a) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 547.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a).
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a).
Note 1 to § 547.405:
See §§ 547.507 and 547.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 547.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 547.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 547.302, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 547.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 547.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 547.407:
See also § 547.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 547.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 547.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a). For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 547.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 547.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a).

§ 547.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 547.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 547.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 547.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Democratic Republic of the Congo sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
[[84 FR 57314, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.
[[84 FR 57314, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.
[[83 FR 57315, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 547.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 547.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 547.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 547.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 547.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 547.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a).

§ 547.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13413 of October 27, 2006, is authorized, provided that receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized: Pursuant to § 547.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13413 of October 27, 2006, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 510.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a) or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13413 of October 27, 2006, is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 547.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings, which is available on OFAC's website at: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's website at:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
[[83 FR 57315, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized

pursuant to § 547.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13413 of October 27, 2006, is authorized from funds

originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized

pursuant to § 547.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13413 of October 27, 2006, is authorized from funds

originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 547.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 547.201(a), any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[83 FR 57315, Nov. 15, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 103643, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 547.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are

otherwise prohibited by this part or any further Executive orders relating to the national

emergency declared in Executive Order 13413 of October 27, 2006 are

authorized.
[[83 FR 57316, Nov. 15, 2018]]

§ 547.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78474, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 547.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies;
(e) The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI); and
(f) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[[87 FR 78474, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 547.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 547.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78488, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 547.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 547.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78489, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 547.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Finding of Violation

[Source:83 FR 57316, Nov. 15, 2018, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
83 FR 57316, Nov. 15, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

§ 547.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705)

(IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation,

order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of

the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA) provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to the authority granted in that section, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $10,000 and, if a natural person, may also be imprisoned for not more than 10 years; and the officer, director, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation or evasion shall be punished by a like fine, imprisonment, or both and any property, funds, securities, papers, or other articles or documents, or any vessel, together with her tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, or vehicle, or aircraft, concerned in such violation shall be forfeited to the United States.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[74 FR 25441, May 28, 2009, as amended at 84 FR 27717, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19887, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14537, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7372, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2232, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2142, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 547.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 547.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 547.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 547.705   Finding of Violation

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; Default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 547.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 547.802   Delegation of certain authorities by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13413 of October 27, 2006 (E.O. 13413), Executive Order 13671 of July 8, 2014, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13413, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[83 FR 57318, Nov. 15, 2018]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 547.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to record keeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 548—BELARUS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13405, 71 FR 35485, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 231; E.O. 14038, 86 FR 43905, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 626.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13405, 71 FR 35485, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 231; E.O. 14038, 86 FR 43905, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 626.
[Source:88 FR 18039, Mar. 27, 2023, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
88 FR 18039, Mar. 27, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 548.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 548.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) E.O. 13405 Annex. The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13405 of June 16, 2006;
E.O. 13405 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13405 of June 16, 2006;
(2) E.O. 13405. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13405.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for, or to have participated in, actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Belarus;
(ii) To be responsible for, or to have participated in, human rights abuses related to political repression in Belarus;
(iii) To be a senior-level official, a family member of such an official, or a person closely linked to such an official who is responsible for or has engaged in public corruption related to Belarus;
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section or any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section; or
(v) To be owned or controlled by or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section; and
(3) E.O. 14038. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of the State:
E.O. 14038.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of the State:
(i) To be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of:
(A) An entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any of the activities described in this paragraphs (a)(3)(B)(v)(A) through (E) or paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section; or
(B) An entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a);
(ii) To be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of Belarus;
(iii) To be or have been a leader or official of the Government of Belarus;
(iv) To operate or have operated in the defense and related materiel sector, security sector, energy sector, potassium chloride (potash) sector, tobacco products sector, construction sector, or transportation sector of the economy of Belarus, or any other sector of the Belarus economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of the State;
(v) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability or territorial integrity of Belarus;
(B) Actions or policies that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms (including freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly, association, religion or belief, and movement) by individuals in Belarus, or that limit access to the internet or print, online, or broadcast media in Belarus;
(C) Electoral fraud or other actions or policies that undermined the electoral process in a Republic of Belarus election;
(D) Deceptive or structured transactions or dealings to circumvent any United States sanctions by or for or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, directly or indirectly, the Government of Belarus or any persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a); or
(E) Public corruption related to Belarus;
(vi) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(3); or
(vii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the Government of Belarus or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(3).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, rulings, instructions, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after August 9, 2021 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13405 of June 16, 2006 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 548.201.
The names of persons listed in, designated, or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13405, E.O. 14038, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13405, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13405: “[BELARUS]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13405: using the identifier formulation “[BELARUS-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 548.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13405: “[BELARUS]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13405: using the identifier formulation “[BELARUS-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 548.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 548.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13405: “[BPI-BELARUS]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13405: “[BPI-BELARUS-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13405: “[BPI-BELARUS]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13405: “[BPI-BELARUS-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 548.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 548.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[88 FR 18039, Mar. 27, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 75960, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 548.202   Prohibited transactions with respect to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Belarus and the Development Bank of the Republic of Belarus (Directive 1).

The following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited: all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt with a maturity of longer than 90 days issued on or after December 2, 2021 by the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Belarus or the Development Bank of the Republic of Belarus.

§ 548.203   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 548.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 548.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or other authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 548.201.

§ 548.204   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 548.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 548.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 548.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 548.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 548.205   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 548.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 548.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 548.206   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 548.207   Exempt transactions.

International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 548.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 548.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 548.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 548.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 548.301.
See § 548.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201.
See
§ 548.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201.

§ 548.302   Construction sector of the Belarus economy.

The term construction sector of the Belarus economy includes the production, procurement, devising, framing, design, testing, financing, distribution, or transport involving Belarus, of goods, services, or technology to fabricate, shape, alter, maintain, or form any buildings or structures, including the on-site development, assembly, or construction of residential, commercial, or institutional buildings in Belarus; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology involving the construction sector of the Belarus economy.
construction sector of the Belarus economy
includes the production, procurement, devising, framing, design, testing, financing, distribution, or transport involving Belarus, of goods, services, or technology to fabricate, shape, alter, maintain, or form any buildings or structures, including the on-site development, assembly, or construction of residential, commercial, or institutional buildings in Belarus; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology involving the construction sector of the Belarus economy.

§ 548.303   Debt.

The term debt as used in § 548.202 includes bonds, loans, extensions of credit, loan guarantees, letters of credit, drafts, bankers' acceptances, discount notes or bills, or commercial paper.
debt
as used in § 548.202 includes bonds, loans, extensions of credit, loan guarantees, letters of credit, drafts, bankers' acceptances, discount notes or bills, or commercial paper.

§ 548.304   Defense and related materiel sector of the Belarus economy.

The term defense and related materiel sector of the Belarus economy includes military, armed forces, or security forces of or within Belarus; the use of arms or related materiel by military, armed forces, or security forces of or within Belarus; any person manufacturing, supplying, financing, procuring, or distributing goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving military, armed forces, or security forces of or within Belarus; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology involving the defense and related materiel sector of the Belarus economy.
defense and related materiel sector of the Belarus economy
includes military, armed forces, or security forces of or within Belarus; the use of arms or related materiel by military, armed forces, or security forces of or within Belarus; any person manufacturing, supplying, financing, procuring, or distributing goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving military, armed forces, or security forces of or within Belarus; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology involving the defense and related materiel sector of the Belarus economy.

§ 548.305   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, June 19, 2006;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 548.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked; and
(3) With respect to transactions prohibited by § 548.202, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice of such prohibition.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property, or notice of a prohibition pursuant to § 548.202, is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property, or notice of a prohibition pursuant to § 548.202, is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 548.306   Energy sector of the Belarus economy.

The term energy sector of the Belarus economy includes the procurement, exploration, extraction, drilling, mining, harvesting, production, refinement, liquefaction, gasification, regasification, conversion, enrichment, fabrication, manufacturing, testing, financing, distribution, or transport to, from, or involving Belarus, of petroleum, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, natural gas liquids, or petroleum products, or other products capable of producing energy, such as coal, wood, or agricultural products used to manufacture biofuels; the development, production, testing, generation, transmission, financing, or exchange of power, through any means, including nuclear, electrical, thermal, and renewable, in or involving Belarus; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving the energy sector of the Belarus economy.
energy sector of the Belarus economy
includes the procurement, exploration, extraction, drilling, mining, harvesting, production, refinement, liquefaction, gasification, regasification, conversion, enrichment, fabrication, manufacturing, testing, financing, distribution, or transport to, from, or involving Belarus, of petroleum, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, natural gas liquids, or petroleum products, or other products capable of producing energy, such as coal, wood, or agricultural products used to manufacture biofuels; the development, production, testing, generation, transmission, financing, or exchange of power, through any means, including nuclear, electrical, thermal, and renewable, in or involving Belarus; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving the energy sector of the Belarus economy.

§ 548.307   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 548.308   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 548.309   Government of Belarus.

The term Government of Belarus means the Government of Belarus, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the National Bank of the Republic of Belarus, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Belarus.
Government of Belarus
means the Government of Belarus, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the National Bank of the Republic of Belarus, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Belarus.

§ 548.310   [Reserved]


§ 548.311   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 548.312   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 548.312.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 548.313   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 548.314   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 548.315   Potassium chloride (potash) sector of the Belarus economy.

The term potassium chloride (potash) sector of the Belarus economy includes the extraction, mining, harvesting, production, procurement, refinement, manufacturing, testing, financing, distribution, or transport to, from, or involving Belarus, of potassium chloride (potash) or potash products; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving the potash sector of the Belarus economy.
potassium chloride (potash) sector of the Belarus economy
includes the extraction, mining, harvesting, production, procurement, refinement, manufacturing, testing, financing, distribution, or transport to, from, or involving Belarus, of potassium chloride (potash) or potash products; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving the potash sector of the Belarus economy.

§ 548.316   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 548.317   Security sector of the Belarus economy.

The term security sector of the Belarus economy includes non-military persons who are engaged in the following in or involving Belarus: state security and law enforcement; justice management and oversight; border management; customs and civil emergency management; surveillance and cyber-security; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving the security sector of the Belarus economy.
security sector of the Belarus economy
includes non-military persons who are engaged in the following in or involving Belarus: state security and law enforcement; justice management and oversight; border management; customs and civil emergency management; surveillance and cyber-security; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving the security sector of the Belarus economy.

§ 548.318   Structured.

The term structured, with respect to a transaction, has the meaning given the term “structure (structuring)” in 31 CFR 1010.100(xx) (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
structured,
with respect to a transaction, has the meaning given the term “structure (structuring)” in 31 CFR 1010.100(xx) (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).

§ 548.319   Tobacco products sector of the Belarus economy.

The term tobacco products sector of the Belarus economy includes the production, procurement, refinement, manufacturing, testing, financing, distribution, or transport to, from, or involving Belarus, of any product made or derived from tobacco, including any component, part, or accessory of such a product; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of services, or technology to, from, or involving the tobacco products sector of the Belarus economy.
tobacco products sector of the Belarus economy
includes the production, procurement, refinement, manufacturing, testing, financing, distribution, or transport to, from, or involving Belarus, of any product made or derived from tobacco, including any component, part, or accessory of such a product; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of services, or technology to, from, or involving the tobacco products sector of the Belarus economy.

§ 548.320   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 548.321   Transportation sector of the Belarus economy.

The term transportation sector of the Belarus economy includes the production, manufacturing, testing, financing, distribution or transport to, from, or involving Belarus, of any mode of transport or any goods, services, or technology for the movement or conveyance of persons or property and the loading, unloading, or storage incidental to the movement of such persons or property; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving the transportation sector of the Belarus economy.
transportation sector of the Belarus economy
includes the production, manufacturing, testing, financing, distribution or transport to, from, or involving Belarus, of any mode of transport or any goods, services, or technology for the movement or conveyance of persons or property and the loading, unloading, or storage incidental to the movement of such persons or property; and any related activities, including the provision or receipt of goods, services, or technology to, from, or involving the transportation sector of the Belarus economy.

§ 548.322   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 548.323   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 548.324   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 548.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise specified.

§ 548.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 548.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 548.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 548.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 548.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property pursuant to § 548.201.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201.

§ 548.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 548.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 548.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201.
Note 1 to § 548.405.
See §§ 548.507 and 548.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 548.507 and 548.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 548.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 548.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 548.301 apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 548.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 548.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 548.407.
See also § 548.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 548.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 548.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 548.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 548.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201.

§ 548.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 548.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 548.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 548.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Belarus sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas/ofac.
www.treas/ofac.

§ 548.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 548.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 548.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 548.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 548.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 548.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 548.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 548.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 548.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 548.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201.

§ 548.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 548.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 548.404.
See
§ 548.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 548.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 548.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 548.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 548.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 548.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 554.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 548.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[88 FR 18039, Mar. 27, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 103643, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 548.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 548.510   Official business of the United States government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 548.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations.

§ 548.512   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 548.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 548.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602);
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 548.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 548.514   Certain transactions with the State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus.

All transactions prohibited by this part involving the State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus (the “Belarusian KGB”) are authorized, provided that such transactions are necessary and ordinarily incident to:
(a) Requesting, receiving, utilizing, paying for, or dealing in licenses, permits, certifications, or notifications issued or registered by the Belarusian KGB for the importation, distribution, or use of information technology products in Belarus, provided that:
(i) The exportation, reexportation, or provision of any goods or technology that are subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce; and
(ii) The payment of any feeds to the Belarus KGB for such licenses, permits, certifications, or notifications does not exceed $5,000 in any calendar year;
(b) Complying with law enforcement or administrative actions or investigations involving the Belarusian KGB; or
(c) Complying with rules and regulations administered by the Belarusian KGB.

Subpart F—Reports


§ 548.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 548.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[88 FR 18039, Mar. 27, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 2232, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2142, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 548.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[88 FR 18039, Mar. 27, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 548.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 548.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 548.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq);
et seq
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (c)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[88 FR 18039, Mar. 27, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 548.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 548.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13405 of June 16, 2006, E.O. 14038 of August 9, 2021, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13405, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 548.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 549—LEBANON SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13441, 72 FR 43499, 3 CFR, 2008 Comp., p. 232.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13441, 72 FR 43499, 3 CFR, 2008 Comp., p. 232.
[Source:75 FR 44909, July 30, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 44909, July 30, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 549.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 549.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of U.S. persons, including their overseas branches, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(1) To have taken, or to pose a significant risk of taking, actions, including acts of violence, that have the purpose or effect of undermining Lebanon's democratic processes or institutions, contributing to the breakdown of the rule of law in Lebanon, supporting the reassertion of Syrian control or otherwise contributing to Syrian interference in Lebanon, or infringing upon or undermining Lebanese sovereignty;
(2) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the activities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, including acts of violence, or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a);
(3) To be a spouse or dependent child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a); or
(4) To be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
) of § 549.201:
The names of persons designated pursuant to Executive Order 13441, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[LEBANON].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 549.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[LEBANON].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 549.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
) of § 549.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this paragraph (a), the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-LEBANON].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-LEBANON].”
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include, but are not limited to, prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless otherwise authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes but is not limited to the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any such security on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such security may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the security.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent transactions are authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[[75 FR 44909, July 30, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 38538, June 30, 2011; 89 FR 75960, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 549.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of IEEPA, Executive Order 13441, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
) of § 549.202:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which, on or since the effective date, there existed an interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).

§ 549.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 549.201(a) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a Federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to this paragraph (b) may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 549.201(a) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraphs (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 549.201(a) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 549.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a) may, in the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 549.205   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any transaction by a U.S. person or within the United States on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 549.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information or informational materials. (1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 549.304, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions of this part.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 549.304, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions of this part.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation or authorize transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include, but are not limited to, payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and, with respect to information or informational materials imported from persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt or authorize transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods, technology, or software for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a) are prohibited.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 549.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 549.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 549.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 549.301:
See § 549.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).
See
§ 549.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).
[[75 FR 44909, July 30, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 78474, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 549.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), refers to the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), refers to the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.

§ 549.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 549.304   Information or informational materials.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term information or informational materials includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information
or
informational materials
includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
Note to paragraph (
a
) of § 549.304:
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
information
or
informational materials,
with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 549.305   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 549.306   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
Note to § 549.306:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 549.307   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 549.308   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 549.309   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 549.310   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 549.311   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 549.312   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 549.313   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in § 549.201(a)(2) of this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including but not limited to currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in § 549.201(a)(2) of this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including but not limited to currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 549.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 549.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 549.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a) or any other part of this chapter, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 549.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a); or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(c) Example. A license authorizing Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), to complete a securities sale also authorizes all activities by other parties required to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, banks, etc., provided that such other parties are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).
Example.
A license authorizing Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), to complete a securities sale also authorizes all activities by other parties required to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, banks,
etc.,
provided that such other parties are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).

§ 549.405   Provision of services.

(a) Except as provided in § 549.206, the prohibitions on transactions involving blocked property contained in § 549.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests subject to § 549.201.
(b) Example. U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).
Example.
U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).
Note to § 549.405:
See §§ 549.507 and 549.508 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and medical services.
See
§§ 549.507 and 549.508 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and medical services.

§ 549.406   Offshore transactions.

The prohibitions in § 549.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a), or property in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a) has or has had an interest since the effective date.

§ 549.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 549.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

§ 549.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a). For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a) if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from any such person.

§ 549.409   Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.

The prohibition in § 549.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including, but not limited to, charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a U.S. financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).

§ 549.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 549.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 549.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[[87 FR 78475, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 549.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
see
part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.

§ 549.502   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.

§ 549.503   Exclusion from licenses.

The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 549.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a) has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 549.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 549.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 549.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 549.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 549.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 549.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 549.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a).

§ 549.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 549.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 549.404.
See
§ 549.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 549.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 549.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
[[89 FR 103643, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 549.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 549.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 549.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 549.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 549.509   Authorization of emergency medical services.

The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 549.201(a) is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.
[[75 FR 44909, July 30, 2010. Redesignated at 89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 549.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78475, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 549.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies;
(5) The Arab Monetary Fund and the Islamic Development Bank; and
(6) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78475, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 549.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 549.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78490, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 549.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 549.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78490, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 549.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.
see
part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 549.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (“IEEPA”), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that “whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully:
(1) Falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact;
(2) Makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or
(3) Makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry” shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[75 FR 44909, July 30, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 43075, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11879, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27717, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19887, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14537, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7372, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2142, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 549.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice,
see
Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response,
see
Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement,
see
appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 549.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
see
appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.

§ 549.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 549.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
see
part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 549.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13441 of August 1, 2007 (72 FR 43499, Aug. 3, 2007), and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 549.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 550—ETHIOPIA SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14046, 86 FR 52389, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 549.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14046, 86 FR 52389, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 549.
[Source:87 FR 7374, Feb. 9, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 7374, Feb. 9, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 550.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 550.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive guidance and definitions, general licenses, and other regulatory provisions.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 550.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14046 of September 17, 2021 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14046 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 550.201.
The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[ETHIOPIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 550.406(a) concerning the status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201(a).
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[ETHIOPIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 550.406(a) concerning the status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201(a).
Note 2 to § 550.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: “[BPI-ETHIOPIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: “[BPI-ETHIOPIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 550.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 550.201.
The names of persons on whom non-blocking sanctions implemented by the Department of the Treasury are imposed pursuant to this section are incorporated into a data file containing OFAC's Consolidated Non-SDN data and are provided in a human readable format on OFAC's Non-SDN Menu-Based Sanctions List (NS-MBS List) on the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/consolidated-sanctions-list-non-sdn-lists. These listings are published in the Federal Register and include specific information on the non-blocking sanctions imposed on such persons. However, for any persons on whom blocking and non-blocking sanctions are imposed pursuant to this section, such persons' names are instead incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[ETHIOPIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].”
www.treasury.gov/consolidated-sanctions-list-non-sdn-lists.
These listings are published in the
Federal Register
and include specific information on the non-blocking sanctions imposed on such persons. However, for any persons on whom blocking and non-blocking sanctions are imposed pursuant to this section, such persons' names are instead incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[ETHIOPIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].”
Note 5 to § 550.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[87 FR 7374, Feb. 9, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75960, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 550.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 550.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 550.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 550.201.

§ 550.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, blocked pursuant to § 550.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become blocked pursuant to § 550.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become blocked pursuant to § 550.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 550.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 550.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 550.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 550.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 550.205   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Official business. The prohibitions contained in § 550.201(a) do not apply to any transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 550.201(a) do not apply to any transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 550.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 550.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 550.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 550.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 550.301.
See § 550.406 concerning the status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201.
See
§ 550.406 concerning the status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201.

§ 550.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201 or on whom other sanctions are imposed, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked or that other sanctions are imposed on such person.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201 or on whom other sanctions are imposed, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked or that other sanctions are imposed on such person.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property or imposition of other sanctions is published in the Federal Register.
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property or imposition of other sanctions is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 550.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 550.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 550.305   [Reserved]


§ 550.306   Government of Eritrea.

The term Government of Eritrea means the Government of Eritrea, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Bank of Eritrea, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Eritrea.
Government of Eritrea
means the Government of Eritrea, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Bank of Eritrea, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Eritrea.

§ 550.307   Government of Ethiopia.

The term Government of Ethiopia means the Government of Ethiopia, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the National Bank of Ethiopia, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Ethiopia.
Government of Ethiopia
means the Government of Ethiopia, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the National Bank of Ethiopia, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Ethiopia.

§ 550.308   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 550.309   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 550.309.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 550.310   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 550.311   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 550.312   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 550.313   Sanctioned person.

The term sanctioned person means a foreign person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has determined meets any of the criteria described in section 1 of E.O. 14046 and has selected, in consultation with the Secretary of State, one or more of the sanctions set forth in section 2(a) of E.O. 14046 to impose on that foreign person.
sanctioned person
means a foreign person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has determined meets any of the criteria described in section 1 of E.O. 14046 and has selected, in consultation with the Secretary of State, one or more of the sanctions set forth in section 2(a) of E.O. 14046 to impose on that foreign person.

§ 550.314   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 550.315   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 550.316   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 550.317   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 550.401   [Reserved]


§ 550.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 550.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 550.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 550.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 550.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 550.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 550.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 550.406   Status of entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

(a) No entity shall be blocked pursuant to § 550.201(a) solely because it is owned in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by one or more sanctioned persons, unless the entity is itself a sanctioned person and the sanctions in section 2(a)(i)(A) of E.O. 14046 are imposed on the entity.
(b) Unless otherwise stated in the relevant Executive order, persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201(b) have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201(b), regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 550.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Ethiopia sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 550.502   [Reserved]


§ 550.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 550.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 550.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 550.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 550.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 550.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 550.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 550.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 550.404.
See
§ 550.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 550.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 550.506.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 550.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 550.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 550.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 550.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 550.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 7374, Feb. 9, 2022, 89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 550.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 550.509   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 550.510   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The African Union, including the African Union Commission and other subsidiary bodies and organs.

§ 550.511   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the following activities by nongovernmental organizations are authorized, including the processing and transfer of funds; payment of taxes, fees, and import duties; and purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services:
(a) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs in Ethiopia or Eritrea, including drought and flood relief; food, nutrition, and medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities, the elderly, and survivors of sexual- and gender-based violence; and environmental programs;
(b) Activities to support democracy building in Ethiopia or Eritrea, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(c) Activities to support education in Ethiopia or Eritrea, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(d) Activities to support non-commercial development projects in Ethiopia or Eritrea directly benefitting the people of such countries, including related to health, food security, and water and sanitation; and
(e) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection in Ethiopia or Eritrea, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage.

§ 550.512   Transactions related to the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to Ethiopia or Eritrea, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to Ethiopia or Eritrea, are authorized.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use in Ethiopia or Eritrea as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 550.512.
Nothing in this section relieves any person from compliance with the requirements of other Federal agencies, including the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security.

Subpart F—Reports


§ 550.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 550.701   Penalties and Findings of Violation.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 550.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 550.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 14046 of September 17, 2021, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 550.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 550—Executive Order 14046 of September 17, 2021

Executive Order 14046 of September 17, 2021, Imposing Sanctions on Certain Persons With Respect to the Humanitarian and Human Rights Crisis in Ethiopia
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that the situation in and in relation to northern Ethiopia, which has been marked by activities that threaten the peace, security, and stability of Ethiopia and the greater Horn of Africa region—in particular, widespread violence, atrocities, and serious human rights abuse, including those involving ethnic-based violence, rape and other forms of gender-based violence, and obstruction of humanitarian operations—constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.
The widespread humanitarian crisis precipitated by the violent conflict in northern Ethiopia has left millions of people in need of humanitarian assistance and has placed an entire region on the brink of famine. While maintaining pressure on those persons responsible for the crisis, the United States will seek to ensure that appropriate personal remittances to non-blocked persons and humanitarian assistance to at-risk populations can flow to Ethiopia and the greater Horn of Africa region through legitimate and transparent channels, including governments, international organizations, and non-profit organizations. The United States supports ongoing international efforts to promote a negotiated ceasefire and political resolution of this crisis, to ensure the withdrawal of Eritrean forces from Ethiopia, and to promote the unity, territorial integrity, and stability of Ethiopia.
Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2(a) of this order on any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
Section 1.
The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2(a) of this order on any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(a) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:
(i) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Ethiopia, or that have the purpose or effect of expanding or extending the crisis in northern Ethiopia or obstructing a ceasefire or a peace process;
(ii) corruption or serious human rights abuse in or with respect to northern Ethiopia;
(iii) the obstruction of the delivery or distribution of, or access to, humanitarian assistance in or with respect to northern Ethiopia, including attacks on humanitarian aid personnel or humanitarian projects;
(iv) the targeting of civilians through the commission of acts of violence in or with respect to northern Ethiopia, including involving abduction, forced displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or any conduct that would constitute a violation of international humanitarian law;
(v) planning, directing, or committing attacks in or with respect to northern Ethiopia against United Nations or associated personnel or African Union or associated personnel;
(vi) actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Ethiopia; or
(vii) actions or policies that undermine the territorial integrity of Ethiopia;
(b) to be a military or security force that operates or has operated in northern Ethiopia on or after November 1, 2020;
(c) to be an entity, including any government entity or a political party, that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, activities that have contributed to the crisis in northern Ethiopia or have obstructed a ceasefire or peace process to resolve such crisis;
(d) to be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of Ethiopia, the Government of Eritrea or its ruling People's Front for Democracy and Justice, the Tigray People's Liberation Front, the Amhara regional government, or the Amhara regional or irregular forces;
(e) to be a spouse or adult child of any sanctioned person;
(f) to be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of any of the following, where the leader, official, senior executive officer, or director is responsible for or complicit in, or who has directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any activity contributing to the crisis in northern Ethiopia:
(i) An entity, including a government entity or a military or security force, operating in northern Ethiopia during the tenure of the leader, official, senior executive officer, or director;
(ii) an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity contributing to the crisis in northern Ethiopia or obstructing a ceasefire or a peace process to resolve such crisis during the tenure of the leader, official, senior executive officer, or director; or
(iii) the Government of Ethiopia, the Government of Eritrea or its ruling People's Front for Democracy and Justice, the Tigray People's Liberation Front, the Amhara regional government, or the Amhara regional or irregular forces, on or after November 1, 2020;
(g) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any sanctioned person; or
(h) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any sanctioned person.
Sec. 2. (a) When the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has determined that a foreign person meets any of the criteria described in section 1(a)-(h) of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to select, in consultation with the Secretary of State, one or more of the sanctions set forth in subsections (a)(i)(A)-(E) or (a)(ii)(A)-(B) of this section to impose on that foreign person:
Sec. 2.
(a) When the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has determined that a foreign person meets any of the criteria described in section 1(a)-(h) of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to select, in consultation with the Secretary of State, one or more of the sanctions set forth in subsections (a)(i)(A)-(E) or (a)(ii)(A)-(B) of this section to impose on that foreign person:
(i) The Secretary of the Treasury shall take the following actions as necessary to implement the selected sanctions:
(A) Block all property and interests in property of the sanctioned person that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;
(B) prohibit any United States person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the sanctioned person;
(C) prohibit any United States financial institution from making loans or providing credit to the sanctioned person;
(D) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and in which the sanctioned person has any interest; or
(E) impose on the leader, official, senior executive officer, or director of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such leader, official, senior executive officer, or director, any of the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)(A)-(D) of this section that are applicable.
(ii) the heads of the relevant executive departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall take the following actions as necessary and appropriate to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of the Treasury:
(A) Actions required to deny any specific license, grant, or any other specific permission or authority under any statute or regulation that requires the prior review and approval of the United States Government as a condition for the export or reexport of goods or technology to the sanctioned person; or
(B) actions required to deny a visa to and exclude from the United States any noncitizen whom the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines is a leader, official, senior executive officer, or director, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, the sanctioned person.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order. No entity shall be blocked pursuant to this order solely because it is owned in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by one or more sanctioned persons, unless the entity is itself a sanctioned person and the sanctions in section 2(a)(i)(A) of this order are imposed on the entity.
Sec. 3. The prohibitions in section 2(a) of this order include:
Sec. 3.
The prohibitions in section 2(a) of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 4. (a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section l of this order, and for whom the sanctions described in section 2(a)(i)(A) or section 2(a)(ii)(B) of this order have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
Sec. 4.
(a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section l of this order, and for whom the sanctions described in section 2(a)(i)(A) or section 2(a)(ii)(B) of this order have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
(b) The Secretary of State shall implement this order as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.
(c) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may establish.
(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 5. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 5.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2 of this order.
Sec. 6.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2 of this order.
Sec. 7. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 7.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “Government of Ethiopia” means the Government of Ethiopia, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the National Bank of Ethiopia, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Ethiopia;
(c) the term “Government of Eritrea” means the Government of Eritrea, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Bank of Eritrea, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Eritrea;
(d) the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States;
(e) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(f) the term “sanctioned person” means a foreign person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has determined meets any of the criteria described in section 1 of this order and has selected, in consultation with the Secretary of State, one or more of the sanctions set forth in section 2(a) of this order to impose on that foreign person; and
(g) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 8. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked or affected by this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds and other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 8.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked or affected by this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds and other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 9. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 9.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 10. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.
Sec. 10.
Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.
Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 11.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 12.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

PART 551—SOMALIA SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13536, 75 FR 19869, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 203; E.O. 13620, 77 FR 43483, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 281.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13536, 75 FR 19869, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 203; E.O. 13620, 77 FR 43483, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 281.
[Source:86 FR 22348, Apr. 28, 2021, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
86 FR 22348, Apr. 28, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 551.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 551.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) The persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order (E.O.) 13536 of April 12, 2010; and
(2) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State to:
(i) Have engaged in acts that directly or indirectly threaten the peace, security, or stability of Somalia, including:
(A) Acts that threaten the Djibouti Agreement of August 18, 2008, or the political process;
(B) Acts that threaten the Transitional Federal Institutions or future Somali governing institutions, the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), or other future international peacekeeping operations related to Somalia;
(C) Acts to misappropriate Somali public assets; or
(D) Acts of piracy or armed robbery at sea off the coast of Somalia;
(ii) Have obstructed the delivery of humanitarian assistance to Somalia, or access to, or distribution of, humanitarian assistance in Somalia;
(iii) Have directly or indirectly supplied, sold, or transferred to Somalia, or to have been the recipient in the territory of Somalia of, arms or any related materiel, or any technical advice, training, or assistance, including financing and financial assistance, related to military activities;
(iv) Be responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, or to have participated in, the commission of acts of violence targeting civilians in Somalia, including killing and maiming, sexual and gender-based violence, attacks on schools and hospitals, taking hostages, and forced displacement;
(v) Be a political or military leader recruiting or using children in armed conflict in Somalia;
(vi) Have engaged, directly or indirectly, in the import or export of charcoal from Somalia on or after February 22, 2012;
(vii) Have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technical support for, or goods or services in support of, the activities described in subsections (a)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(viii) Be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any E.O. issued after July 20, 2012, pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13536 of April 12, 2010, are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 551.201.
The names of persons listed in or designated or identified pursuant to amended E.O. 13536, or listed in or designated or identified pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13536, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For amended E.O. 13536: “[SOMALIA]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in amended E.O. 13536: Using the identifier formulation “[SOMALIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 551.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For amended E.O. 13536: “[SOMALIA]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in amended E.O. 13536: Using the identifier formulation “[SOMALIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 551.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 551.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For amended E.O. 13536: “[BPI-SOMALIA]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13536: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-SOMALIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For amended E.O. 13536: “[BPI-SOMALIA]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13536: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-SOMALIA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 551.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 551.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[86 FR 22348, Apr. 28, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75961, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 551.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 551.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 551.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 551.201.

§ 551.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 551.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 551.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 551.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 551.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 551.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 551.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 551.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 551.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) United Nations Participation Act. The exemption described in this section does not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemption described in this section does not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
).
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on both OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (see https://www.un.org), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on both the SDN List and the UN List.
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (see
https://www.un.org
), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on
both
the SDN List and the UN List.
(b) Personal communications. Th prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
Th prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.

§ 551.207   Prohibited importation of charcoal from Somalia.

(a) The importation into the United States, directly or indirectly, of charcoal from Somalia is prohibited.
(b) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section applies except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 551.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 551.301   African Union Mission in Somalia; AMISOM.

The term African Union Mission in Somalia or AMISOM means the mission authorized by the United Nations Security Council in Resolution 1744 of February 20, 2007, and reauthorized in subsequent resolutions, and includes its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities.
African Union Mission in Somalia
or
AMISOM
means the mission authorized by the United Nations Security Council in Resolution 1744 of February 20, 2007, and reauthorized in subsequent resolutions, and includes its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities.

§ 551.302   Arms or any related materiel.

The term arms or any related materiel means arms or related materiel of all types, including military aircraft and equipment, transferred in violation of the United Nations arms embargo on Somalia.
arms or any related materiel
means arms or related materiel of all types, including military aircraft and equipment, transferred in violation of the United Nations arms embargo on Somalia.

§ 551.303   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 551.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 551.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 551.303.
See § 551.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201.
See
§ 551.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201.

§ 551.304   Charcoal.

The term charcoal means any product classifiable in heading 3802 or 4402 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
charcoal
means any product classifiable in heading 3802 or 4402 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.

§ 551.305   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person listed in the Annex to E.O. 13536, as amended by E.O. 13620, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, April 13, 2010;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 551.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked; and
(3) With respect to the prohibition set forth in § 551.207, 2:00 p.m. eastern daylight time, July 20, 2012.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 551.306   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 551.307   Financial, material, logistical, or technical support.

The term financial, material, logistical, or technical support, as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, logistical, or technical support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 551.308   [Reserved]


§ 551.309   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 551.310   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 551.310.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 551.311   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 551.312   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 551.313   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 551.314   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 551.315   Transitional Federal Institutions.

The term Transitional Federal Institutions means the Transitional Federal Charter of the Somali Republic adopted in February 2004 and the Somali federal institutions established pursuant to such charter, and includes their agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities.
Transitional Federal Institutions
means the Transitional Federal Charter of the Somali Republic adopted in February 2004 and the Somali federal institutions established pursuant to such charter, and includes their agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities.

§ 551.316   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 551.317   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 551.318   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 551.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 551.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 551.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 551.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 551.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 551.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201.

§ 551.405   Provision of services.

(a) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 551.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201.
Note 1 to § 551.405.
See §§ 551.507 and 551.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 551.507 and 551.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 551.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 551.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 551.303, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 551.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 551.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 551.407.
See also § 551.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 551.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 551.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 551.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 551.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201.

§ 551.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 551.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 551.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 551.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Somalia Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 551.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 551.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 551.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 551.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 551.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 551.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 551.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 551.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 551.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 551.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201.

§ 551.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 551.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201 not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 551.404.
See
§ 551.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 551.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 551.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 551.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 551.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 551.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 551.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 551.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[86 FR 22348, Apr. 28, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 551.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 551.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 551.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies;
(e) Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; and
(f) The Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD).
[[87 FR 78475, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 551.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 551.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78491, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 551.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 551.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78491, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 551.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 551.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to the authority granted in that section shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 or, if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[86 FR 22348, Apr. 28, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 7372, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2142, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 551.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[86 FR 22348, Apr. 28, 2021, as amended ay 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 551.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 551.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 551.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; Default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 551.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 551.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13536 of April 12, 2010, E.O. 13620 of July 20, 2012, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13536, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 551.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 552—YEMEN SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13611, 77 FR 29533, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 260.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13611, 77 FR 29533, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 260.
[Source:85 FR 68463, Oct. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
85 FR 68463, Oct. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 552.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 552.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to:
(1) Have engaged in acts that directly or indirectly threaten the peace, security, or stability of Yemen, such as acts that obstruct the implementation of the agreement of November 23, 2011, between the Government of Yemen and those in opposition to it, which provides for a peaceful transition of power in Yemen, or that obstruct the political process in Yemen;
(2) Be a political or military leader of an entity that has engaged in the acts described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(3) Have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the acts described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(4) Be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after May 16, 2012 pursuant to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13611 of May 16, 2012 (E.O. 13611), are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 552.201.
The names of persons designated pursuant to E.O. 13611, or listed in or designated or identified pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13611, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13611: “[YEMEN]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13611: Using the identifier formulation “[YEMEN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 552.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13611: “[YEMEN]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13611: Using the identifier formulation “[YEMEN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 552.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 552.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13611: “[BPI-YEMEN]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13611: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-YEMEN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13611: “[BPI-YEMEN]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13611: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-YEMEN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 552.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 552.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[85 FR 68463, Oct. 29, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 75961, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 552.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 552.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 552.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 552.201.

§ 552.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 552.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 552.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 552.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 552.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 552.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 552.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 552.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 552.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Official business. The prohibitions contained in § 552.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 552.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 552.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 552.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 552.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 552.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 552.301.
See § 552.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201.
See
§ 552.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201.

§ 552.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, is the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, is the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 552.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 552.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 552.305   [Reserved]


§ 552.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 552.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 552.307.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 552.308   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 552.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 552.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 552.311   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 552.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 552.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 552.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 552.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 552.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 552.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 552.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 552.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 552.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201.

§ 552.405   Provision of services.

(a) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 552.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201.
Note 1 to § 552.405.
See §§ 552.507 and 552.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 552.507 and 552.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 552.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 552.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 552.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 552.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 552.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 552.407.
See also § 552.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 552.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 552.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 552.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 552.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201.

§ 552.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 552.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 552.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 552.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Yemen-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 552.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 552.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 552.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 552.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 552.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 552.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 552.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 552.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 552.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 552.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201.

§ 552.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 552.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201 not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 552.404.
See
§ 552.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 552.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 552.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 552.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 552.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 552.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 552.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 552.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[85 FR 68463, Oct. 29, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 103644, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 552.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 552.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78475, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 552.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Arab Monetary Fund and the Islamic Development Bank; and
(f) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[[87 FR 78476, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 552.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 552.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78491, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 552.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 552.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78492, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 552.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 552.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[85 FR 68463, Oct. 29, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7372, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2142, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3691, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 552.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 552.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 552.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 552.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; Default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (c)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 552.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 552.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13611 of May 16, 2012, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 552.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 553—CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13667, 79 FR 28387, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 243.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13667, 79 FR 28387, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 243.
[Source:87 FR 58974, Sept. 29, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 58974, Sept. 29, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 553.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 553.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13667 of May 12, 2014; and
(2) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following in or in relation to the Central African Republic:
(A) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of the Central African Republic;
(B) Actions or policies that threaten transitional agreements or the political transition process in the Central African Republic;
(C) Actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in the Central African Republic;
(D) The targeting of women, children, or any civilians through the commission of acts of violence (including killing, maiming, torture, or rape or other sexual violence), abduction, forced displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or through conduct that would constitute a serious abuse or violation of human rights or a violation of international humanitarian law;
(E) The use or recruitment of children by armed groups or armed forces in the context of the conflict in the Central African Republic;
(F) The obstruction of the delivery or distribution of, or access to, humanitarian assistance;
(G) Attacks against United Nations missions, international security presences, or other peacekeeping operations; or
(H) Support to persons, including armed groups, involved in activities that threaten the peace, security, or stability of the Central African Republic or that undermine democratic processes or institutions in the Central African Republic through the illicit trade in natural resources of the Central African Republic;
(ii) Except where intended for the authorized support of humanitarian activities or the authorized use by or support of peacekeeping, international, or government forces, to have directly or indirectly supplied, sold, or transferred to the Central African Republic, or been the recipient in the territory of the Central African Republic of, arms and related materiel, including military aircraft, and equipment, or advice, training, or assistance, including financing and financial assistance, related to military activities;
(iii) To be a leader of:
(A) An entity, including any armed group, that has, or whose members have, engaged in any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section; or
(B) An entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section;
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of:
(A) Any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section; or
(B) Any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(v) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after May 13, 2014 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13667 of May 12, 2014 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 553.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13667, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13667: “[CAR]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13667: using the identifier formulation “[CAR-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 553.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13667: “[CAR]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13667: using the identifier formulation “[CAR-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 553.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 553.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13667: “[BPI-CAR]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13667: “[BPI-CAR-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13667: “[BPI-CAR]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13667: “[BPI-CAR-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 553.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 553.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[87 FR 58974, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75961, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 553.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 553.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 553.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 553.201.

§ 553.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 553.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 553.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 553.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 553.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 553.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 553.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 553.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 553.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 553.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) United Nations Participation Act. The exemptions cited in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions cited in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
).
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on both OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (see https://www.un.org), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on both the SDN List and the UN List.
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (
see https://www.un.org
), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on
both
the SDN List and the UN List.
(b) International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 553.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 553.301   Arms and related materiel.

The term arms and related materiel means arms or related materiel of all types, including military aircraft and equipment, transferred in contravention of the United Nations arms embargo on the Central African Republic.
arms and related materiel
means arms or related materiel of all types, including military aircraft and equipment, transferred in contravention of the United Nations arms embargo on the Central African Republic.

§ 553.302   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 553.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 553.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 553.302.
See § 553.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.
See
§ 553.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.

§ 553.303   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 533.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, May 13, 2014; and
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 553.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 553.304   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 553.305   Financial, material, logistical, or technological support.

The term financial, material, logistical, or technological support, as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, logistical, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 553.306   [Reserved]


§ 553.307   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 553.308   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 553.308.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 553.309   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 553.310   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 553.311   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 553.312   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 553.313   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 553.314   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 553.315   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures, or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures, or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 553.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 553.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 553.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 553.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 553.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 553.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.

§ 553.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 553.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 553.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.
Note 1 to § 553.405.
See §§ 553.507 and 553.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 553.507 and 553.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 553.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 553.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 553.302, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 553.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 553.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 553.407.
See also § 553.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 553.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 553.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 553.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 553.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.

§ 553.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 553.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 553.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 553.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Central African Republic sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.

§ 553.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 553.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 553.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 553.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 553.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 553.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 553.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 553.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 553.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 553.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201.

§ 553.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 553.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 553.404.
See
§ 553.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 553.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 553.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 553.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 553.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 553.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 553.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 553.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 58974, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103645, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 553.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 553.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 553.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations.

§ 553.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 553.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78492, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 553.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 553.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78493, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 553.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 553.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5(b) of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to Section 5(a) of the UNPA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 or, if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[87 FR 58974, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2142, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 553.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) or the United Nations Participation Act (22 U.S.C. 287c) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) or the United Nations Participation Act (22 U.S.C. 287c) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[85 FR 68463, Oct. 29, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 553.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 553.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 553.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) or the United Nations Participation Act (22 U.S.C. 287c);
et seq.
) or the United Nations Participation Act (22 U.S.C. 287c);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; Default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note:
Note 1 to paragraph (c)(2).
c
)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[85 FR 68463, Oct. 29, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 15741, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 553.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 553.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13667 of May 12, 2014 and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 553.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 555—MALI SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13882, 84 FR 37055, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 346.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13882, 84 FR 37055, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 346.
[Source:88 FR 52028, Aug. 7, 2023, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
88 FR 52028, Aug. 7, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 555.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 555.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) E.O. 13882. All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
E.O. 13882.
All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, any of the following in or in relation to Mali:
(A) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Mali;
(B) Actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Mali;
(C) A hostile act in violation of, or an act that obstructs, including by prolonged delay, or threatens the implementation of, the 2015 Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation in Mali;
(D) Planning, directing, sponsoring, or conducting attacks against local, regional, or state institutions, the Malian defense and security forces, any international security presences, the United Nations Multi-dimensional Integrated Stabilizations Mission in Mali peacekeepers, other United Nations or associated personnel, or any other peacekeeping operations;
(E) Obstructing the delivery or distribution of, or access to, humanitarian assistance;
(F) Planning, directing, or committing an act that violates international humanitarian law or that constitutes a serious human rights abuse or violation, including an act involving the targeting of civilians through the commission of an act of violence, abduction or enforced disappearance, forced displacement, or an attack on a school, hospital, religious site, or location where civilians are seeking refuge;
(G) The use or recruitment of children by armed groups or armed forces in the context of the armed conflict in Mali;
(H) The illicit production or trafficking of narcotics or their precursors originating or transiting through Mali;
(I) Trafficking in persons, smuggling migrants, or trafficking or smuggling arms or illicitly acquired cultural property; or
(J) Any transaction or series of transactions involving bribery or other corruption, such as the misappropriation of Malian public assets or expropriation of private assets for personal gain or political purposes;
(ii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a); or
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, rulings, instructions, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after July 30, 2019 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13882 of July 30, 2019 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 555.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13882, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13882: “MALI-EO13882”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13882: using the identifier formulation “MALI-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 555.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13882: “MALI-EO13882”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13882: using the identifier formulation “MALI-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 555.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 555.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13882 “[BPI-MALI-EO13882]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13882: “[BPI-MALI-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13882 “[BPI-MALI-EO13882]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13882: “[BPI-MALI-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 555.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 555.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[88 FR 52028, Aug. 7, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 75962, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 555.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 555.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 555.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or other authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 555.201.

§ 555.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding blocked funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 555.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 555.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 555.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 555.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 555.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 555.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 555.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 555.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 555.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) United Nations Participation Act. The exemptions described in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA).
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions described in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c) (UNPA).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on both OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (see https://www.un.org), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on both the SDN List and the UN List.
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (
see https://www.un.org
), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on
both
the SDN List and the UN List.
(b) International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 555.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 555.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 555.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 555.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 555.301:
See § 555.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.
See
§ 555.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.

§ 555.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 555.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 555.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 555.305   [Reserved]


§ 555.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 555.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
Note 1 to § 555.307:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 555.308   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 555.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 555.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 555.311   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 555.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 555.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 555.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 555.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 555.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 555.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 555.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 555.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 555.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.

§ 555.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 555.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 555.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.
Note 1 to § 555.405:
See §§ 555.507 and 555.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 555.507 and 555.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 555.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 555.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 555.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 555.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 555.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 555.407:
See also § 555.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 555.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 555.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 555.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 555.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.

§ 555.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 555.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 555.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 555.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Mali sanctions page on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
https://ofac.treasury.gov.

§ 555.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 555.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 555.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 555.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 555.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 555.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 555.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 555.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 555.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 555.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201.

§ 555.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 555.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 555.404.
See
§ 555.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 555.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 555.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 555.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 555.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 555.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 555.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 555.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[88 FR 52028, Aug. 7, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 103645, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 555.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 555.510   Official business of the United States government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 555.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.

§ 555.512   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 555.512:
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 555.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 555.513:
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart F—Reports


§ 555.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 555.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705 (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5(b) of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to section 5(a) of the UNPA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 and, if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[88 FR 52028, Aug. 7, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 555.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 555.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 555.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 555.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 555.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 555.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13882 of July 26, 2019, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 555.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 558—SOUTH SUDAN SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13664, 79 FR 19283, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 238.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13664, 79 FR 19283, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 238.
[Source:88 FR 31612, May 18, 2023, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
88 FR 31612, May 18, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 558.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 558.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following in or in relation to South Sudan:
(A) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of South Sudan;
(B) Actions or policies that threaten transitional agreements or undermine democratic processes or institutions in South Sudan;
(C) Actions or policies that have the purpose or effect of expanding or extending the conflict in South Sudan or obstructing reconciliation or peace talks or processes;
(D) The commission of human rights abuses against persons in South Sudan;
(E) The targeting of women, children, or any civilians through the commission of acts of violence (including killing, maiming, torture, or rape or other sexual violence), abduction, forced displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or through conduct that would constitute a serious abuse or violation of human rights or a violation of international humanitarian law;
(F) The use or recruitment of children by armed groups or armed forces in the context of the conflict in South Sudan;
(G) The obstruction of the activities of international peacekeeping, diplomatic, or humanitarian missions in South Sudan, or of the delivery or distribution of, or access to, humanitarian assistance; or
(H) Attacks against United Nations missions, international security presences, or other peacekeeping operations;
(ii) To be a leader of:
(A) An entity, including any government, rebel militia, or other group, that has, or whose members have, engaged in any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; or
(B) An entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 13664;
(iii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of:
(A) Any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; or
(B) Any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 13664; or
(iv) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to E.O. 13664.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, rulings, instructions, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after April 3, 2014 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13664 of April 3, 2014 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 558.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13664, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13664: “[SOUTH SUDAN]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13664: using the identifier formulation “[SOUTH SUDAN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 558.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13664: “[SOUTH SUDAN]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13664: using the identifier formulation “[SOUTH SUDAN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 558.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 558.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13664: “[BPI-SOUTH SUDAN]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13664: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-SOUTH SUDAN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13664: “[BPI-SOUTH SUDAN]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13664: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-SOUTH SUDAN-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 558.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 558.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[88 FR 31612, May 18, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 75962, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 558.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 558.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 558.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 558.201.

§ 558.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 558.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 558.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 558.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 558.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 558.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 558.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 558.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 558.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 558.206   Exempt transactions.

The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 558.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 558.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 558.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 558.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 558.301.
See § 558.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201.
See
§ 558.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201.

§ 558.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 558.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 558.304   Financial, material, logistical, or technological support.

The term financial, material, logistical, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, logistical, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 558.305   [Reserved]


§ 558.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 558.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 558.307.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 558.308   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 558.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 558.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 558.311   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 558.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 558.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 558.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 558.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise specified.

§ 558.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 558.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 558.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 558.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 558.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201.

§ 558.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 558.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 558.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201.
Note 1 to § 558.405.
See §§ 558.507 and 558.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 558.507 and 558.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 558.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 558.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 558.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 558.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 558.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 558.407.
See also § 558.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 558.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 558.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 558.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 558.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201.

§ 558.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 558.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 558.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 558.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the South Sudan-related sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.

§ 558.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 558.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 558.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 558.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 558.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 558.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 558.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 558.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 558.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 558.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201.

§ 558.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 558.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 558.404.
See
§ 558.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 558.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 558.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 558.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 558.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 558.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 558.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 558.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[88 FR 31612, May 18, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 103645, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 558.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 558.510   Official business of the United States government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 558.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.

§ 558.512   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 558.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 558.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 558.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart F—Reports


§ 558.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 558.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[88 FR 31612, May 18, 2023, as amended as 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 558.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's  Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's  Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[88 FR 31612, May 18, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 558.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 558.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 558.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq);
et seq
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[88 FR 31612, May 18, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 558.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 558.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13664 of April 3, 2014, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 558.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 560—IRANIAN TRANSACTIONS AND SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 2339B, 2332d; 22 U.S.C. 2349aa-9, 7201-7211, 8501-8551, 8701-8795; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12613, 52 FR 41940, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 256; E.O. 12957, 60 FR 14615, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332; E.O. 12959, 60 FR 24757, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 356; E.O. 13059, 62 FR 44531, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 217; E.O. 13599, 77 FR 6659, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 215; E.O. 13846, 83 FR 38939, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 854.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 2339B, 2332d; 22 U.S.C. 2349aa-9, 7201-7211, 8501-8551, 8701-8795; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12613, 52 FR 41940, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 256; E.O. 12957, 60 FR 14615, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332; E.O. 12959, 60 FR 24757, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 356; E.O. 13059, 62 FR 44531, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 217; E.O. 13599, 77 FR 6659, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 215; E.O. 13846, 83 FR 38939, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 854.
[Source:77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 560.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, including part 535 of this chapter, “Iranian Assets Control Regulations,” part 561 of this chapter, “Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations,” and part 562 of this chapter, “Iranian Human Rights Abuses Sanctions Regulations,” with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 560.201   Prohibited importation of goods or services from Iran.

Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to May 7, 1995, the importation into the United States of any goods or services of Iranian origin or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, other than information and informational materials within the meaning of section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)), is prohibited.

§ 560.202   [Reserved]


§ 560.203   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 560.204   Prohibited exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of goods, technology, or services to Iran.

Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to May 7, 1995, the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from the United States, or by a United States person, wherever located, of any goods, technology, or services to Iran or the Government of Iran is prohibited, including the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of any goods, technology, or services to a person in a third country undertaken with knowledge or reason to know that:
(a) Such goods, technology, or services are intended specifically for supply, transshipment, or reexportation, directly or indirectly, to Iran or the Government of Iran; or
(b) Such goods, technology, or services are intended specifically for use in the production of, for commingling with, or for incorporation into goods, technology, or services to be directly or indirectly supplied, transshipped, or reexported exclusively or predominantly to Iran or the Government of Iran.

§ 560.205   Prohibited reexportation of goods, technology, or services to Iran or the Government of Iran by persons other than United States persons; exceptions.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to May 7, 1995, the reexportation from a third country, directly or indirectly, by a person other than a United States person, of any goods, technology, or services that have been exported from the United States is prohibited, if:
(1) Undertaken with knowledge or reason to know that the reexportation is intended specifically for Iran or the Government of Iran; and
(2) The exportation of such goods, technology, or services from the United States to Iran was subject to export license application requirements under any United States regulations in effect on May 6, 1995, or thereafter is made subject to such requirements imposed independently of this part (see § 560.414).
(b) The prohibitions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to those goods or that technology subject to export license application requirements if such goods or technology have been:
(1) Substantially transformed into a foreign-made product outside the United States; or
(2) Incorporated into a foreign-made product outside the United States if the aggregate value of such goods and technology described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section constitutes less than 10 percent of the total value of the foreign-made product to be exported from a third country (see § 560.420).
Note to § 560.205(
b
):
The reexportation of U.S.-origin goods or technology, including U.S.-origin goods or technology that have been incorporated or substantially transformed into a foreign-made product, not prohibited by this section, may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce under the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730-774) or by the U.S. State Department under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR 123.9).
(c) Reexportation by United States persons or from the United States is governed by other sections in this part, including §§ 560.204 and 560.206.

§ 560.206   Prohibited trade-related transactions with Iran; goods, technology, or services.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to May 7, 1995, no United States person, wherever located, may engage in any transaction or dealing in or related to:
(1) Goods or services of Iranian origin or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran; or
(2) Goods, technology, or services for exportation, reexportation, sale or supply, directly or indirectly, to Iran or the Government of Iran.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term transaction or dealing includes but is not limited to purchasing, selling, transporting, swapping, brokering, approving, financing, facilitating, or guaranteeing.

§ 560.207   Prohibited investment.

Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to May 7, 1995, any new investment by a United States person in Iran or in property (including entities) owned or controlled by the Government of Iran is prohibited.

§ 560.208   Prohibited facilitation by United States persons of transactions by foreign persons.

Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to May 7, 1995, no United States person, wherever located, may approve, finance, facilitate, or guarantee any transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by this part if performed by a United States person or within the United States.

§ 560.209   Prohibited transactions with respect to the development of Iranian petroleum resources.

Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to March 16, 1995, the following are prohibited:
(a) The entry into or performance by a United States person, or the approval by a United States person of the entry into or performance by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person, of:
(1) A contract that includes overall supervision and management responsibility for the development of petroleum resources located in Iran, or
(2) A guaranty of another person's performance under such contract; or
(b) The entry into or performance by a United States person, or the approval by a United States person of the entry into or performance by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person, of:
(1) A contract for the financing of the development of petroleum resources located in Iran, or
(2) A guaranty of another person's performance under such a contract.

§ 560.210   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Humanitarian donations. The prohibitions of §§ 560.204 and 560.206 do not apply to donations by United States persons of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering.
Humanitarian donations.
The prohibitions of §§ 560.204 and 560.206 do not apply to donations by United States persons of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering.
(c) Information or informational materials. (1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of information or informational materials, as defined in § 560.315, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of information or informational materials, as defined in § 560.315, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation or authorize transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include, but are not limited to, payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt or authorize transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 are prohibited.
Note to paragraph (
c
)(3) of § 560.210:
See § 560.540 of this part for a general license authorizing the exportation to persons in Iran of certain services and software incident to the exchange of personal communications over the Internet.
See
§ 560.540 of this part for a general license authorizing the exportation to persons in Iran of certain services and software incident to the exchange of personal communications over the Internet.
(d) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
(e) Official Business. The prohibitions in § 560.211(a) through (c)(1) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official Business.
The prohibitions in § 560.211(a) through (c)(1) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
(f) The prohibitions in § 560.211 do not apply to property and interests in property of the Government of Iran that were blocked pursuant to Executive Order 12170 of November 14, 1979, and thereafter made subject to the transfer directives set forth in Executive Order 12281 of January 19, 1981, and implementing regulations thereunder.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75847, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.211   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) All property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, including the Central Bank of Iran, that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, including any foreign branch, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.
(b) All property and interests in property of any Iranian financial institution, including the Central Bank of Iran, that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, including any foreign branch, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.
(c)(1) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, including any foreign branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (c)(1)(i) of this section; or
(ii) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) To have, on or after August 7, 2018, materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the purchase or acquisition of U.S. bank notes or precious metals by the Government of Iran; or
(B) To have, on or after November 5, 2018, materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC); the Naftiran Intertrade Company (NICO); any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO; or the Central Bank of Iran.
(2) Paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section shall not apply with respect to any person for conducting or facilitating a transaction involving a project—
(i) For the development of natural gas and the construction and operation of a pipeline to transport natural gas from Azerbaijan to Turkey and Europe;
(ii) That provides to Turkey and countries in Europe energy security and energy independence from the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Iran; and
(iii) That was initiated before August 10, 2012 pursuant to a production-sharing agreement, or an ancillary agreement necessary to further a production-sharing agreement, entered into with, or a license granted by, the government of a country other than Iran before August 10, 2012.
Note to paragraph (
c
)(2) of § 560.211:
The natural gas development and pipeline project referred to in this paragraph is the project to develop the Shah Deniz natural gas field in Azerbaijan's sector of the Caspian Sea and related pipeline projects to bring the gas from Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey.
Note 1 to paragraphs (
a
) through (
c
) of § 560.211:
The names of persons that the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has designated or identified pursuant to Executive Order 13599 (E.O. 13599) or sections 1(a)(i) or 1(a)(ii) of Executive Order 13846, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[IRAN].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 560.425 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section. E.O. 13599 blocks the property and interests in property of the Government of Iran and Iranian financial institutions, as defined in § 560.304 and § 560.324, respectively. The property and interests in property of persons who meet the definitions of the terms Government of Iran or Iranian financial institution are blocked pursuant to this section regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the Federal Register or incorporated into the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[IRAN].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn
. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 560.425 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section. E.O. 13599 blocks the property and interests in property of the Government of Iran and Iranian financial institutions, as defined in § 560.304 and § 560.324, respectively. The property and interests in property of persons who meet the definitions of the terms
Government of Iran
or
Iranian financial institution
are blocked pursuant to this section regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.
Note 2 to paragraphs (
a
) through (
c
) of § 560.211:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAN].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAN].”
Note 3 to paragraphs (
a
) through (
c
):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to paragraphs (
a
) through (
c
):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section include, but are not limited to, prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(e) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes but is not limited to the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any such security on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such security may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the security.
(f) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section apply except to the extent transactions are authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75847, Dec. 26, 2012; 81 FR 3332, Jan. 21, 2016; 83 FR 55270, Nov. 5, 2018; 89 FR 75962, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 560.212   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 560.211, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 560.211, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
) of § 560.212:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 560.211.

§ 560.213   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 560.211 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing
account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a Federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 560.211 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 560.211 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 560.214   Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 560.211 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 560.211 may, in the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 560.215   Prohibitions on foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, an entity that is owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States is prohibited from knowingly engaging in any transaction, directly or indirectly, with the Government of Iran or any person subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran that would be prohibited pursuant to this part if engaged in by a United States person or in the United States.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
If a transaction is exempt from the prohibitions of this part if engaged in by a U.S. person, it would not be prohibited for an entity that is owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States (a “U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”) to engage in the transaction to the same extent that it would not be prohibited for the U.S. person to engage in the transaction and provided that the U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity satisfies all the requirements of the exemption. See also § 560.556 of this part for a general license authorizing a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity to engage in a transaction otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 that would be authorized by a general license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States, subject to certain exclusions. Finally, if a transaction prohibited by § 560.215 is one for which a U.S. person might apply for a specific license—for example, the exportation of medical devices to Iran—a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity may apply for a specific license to engage in the transaction.
See also
§ 560.556 of this part for a general license authorizing a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity to engage in a transaction otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 that would be authorized by a general license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States, subject to certain exclusions. Finally, if a transaction prohibited by § 560.215 is one for which a U.S. person might apply for a specific license—for example, the exportation of medical devices to Iran—a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity may apply for a specific license to engage in the transaction.
(b) Definitions: (1) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, an entity is “owned or controlled” by a United States person if the United States person:
Definitions:
(1) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, an entity is “owned or controlled” by a United States person if the United States person:
(i) Holds a 50 percent or greater equity interest by vote or value in the entity;
(ii) Holds a majority of seats on the board of directors of the entity; or
(iii) Otherwise controls the actions, policies, or personnel decisions of the entity.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term knowingly means that the person engages in the transaction with actual knowledge or reason to know.
knowingly
means that the person engages in the transaction with actual knowledge or reason to know.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a person is “subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran” if the person is organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, ordinarily resident in Iran, or in Iran, or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing.
Note 2 to paragraph (
b
):
See § 560.304 of this part for the definition of the term Government of Iran.
See
§ 560.304 of this part for the definition of the term
Government of
Iran.
(c) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any activity relating to a project:
(1) For the development of natural gas and the construction and operation of a pipeline to transport natural gas from Azerbaijan to Turkey and Europe;
(2) That provides to Turkey and countries in Europe energy security and energy independence from the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Iran; and
(3) That was initiated before August 10, 2012, pursuant to a production-sharing agreement, or an ancillary agreement necessary to further a production-sharing agreement, entered into with, or a license granted by, the government of a country other than Iran before August 10, 2012.
Note 3 to paragraph (
c
):
The exemption in paragraph (c) of this section applies to the Shah Deniz natural gas field in Azerbaijan's sector of the Caspian Sea and related pipeline projects to bring the gas from Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey.
(d) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to the authorized intelligence activities of the United States Government.
Note 4 to § 560.215:
A U.S. person is subject to the civil penalties provided for in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”) (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) if any foreign entity that it owns or controls violates the prohibition set forth in this section. See § 560.701(a)(4) for civil penalties.
See
§ 560.701(a)(4) for civil penalties.
[[77 FR 75848, Dec. 26, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 61825, Oct. 1, 2020]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 560.301   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a) With respect to the prohibitions and directives in § 560.201 and §§ 560.204 through 560.209 is 12:01 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, August 20, 1997. For the effective date of pre-existing regulations and directives, see the Executive orders in the Authority citation for this part and implementing regulations.
(b) With respect to prohibited transfers or other dealings in blocked property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, as defined in § 560.304, and Iranian financial institutions, as defined in § 560.324, 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time, February 6, 2012; and
(c) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to paragraph (c) of § 560.211, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.

§ 560.302   [Reserved]


§ 560.303   Iran; Iranian.

The term Iran means the territory of Iran and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to an international agreement. The term Iranian means pertaining to Iran as defined in this section.
Iran
means the territory of Iran and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to an international agreement. The term
Iranian
means pertaining to Iran as defined in this section.

§ 560.304   Government of Iran.

The term Government of Iran includes:
Government of
Iran
includes:
(a) The state and the Government of Iran, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Iran;
(b) Any person owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the foregoing;
(c) Any person to the extent that such person is, or has been, since the effective date, acting or purporting to act, directly or indirectly, for or on behalf of the foregoing; and
(d) Any other person determined by the Office of Foreign Assets Control to be included within paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
Note 1 to § 560.304:
The names of persons that the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has identified as meeting this definition are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[IRAN].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. However, the property and interests in property of any persons meeting the definition of the term Government of Iran are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the Federal Register or incorporated into the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[IRAN].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn
. However, the property and interests in property of any persons meeting the definition of the term
Government of Iran
are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.
Note 2 to § 560.304:
Section 501.807 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of OFAC's determination that they fall within the definition of the term Government of Iran.
Government of Iran.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 3332, Jan. 21, 2016; 83 FR 55271, Nov. 5, 2018]]

§ 560.305   Person; entity.

(a) The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.
(b) The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 560.306   Iranian-origin goods or services; goods or services owned or controlled by the Government of Iran.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the terms goods of Iranian origin and Iranian-origin goods include:
goods of Iranian origin
and
Iranian-origin goods
include:
(1) Goods grown, produced, manufactured, extracted, or processed in Iran; and
(2) Goods that have entered into Iranian commerce.
(b) The terms goods of Iranian origin and Iranian-origin goods do not include the following categories of goods, provided that such goods were not grown, produced, manufactured, extracted, or processed in Iran:
goods of Iranian origin
and
Iranian-origin goods
do not include the following categories of goods, provided that such goods were not grown, produced, manufactured, extracted, or processed in Iran:
(1) Goods exported or reexported to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to this part and that have subsequently been reexported from and are located outside of Iran; or
(2) Goods transported on a vessel or aircraft, as well as the vessel or aircraft itself, that passed though Iranian territorial waters or stopped at a port or place in Iran en route to a destination outside of Iran and that have not otherwise come into contact with Iran.
Note to paragraph (
b
)(2) of § 560.306:
Pursuant to this section, goods that are temporarily offloaded from a vessel in Iranian territorial waters or at a port or place in Iran and reloaded onto the same vessel or another vessel in the same location en route to a destination outside of Iran and that have not otherwise come into contact with Iran are not considered goods of Iranian origin. Similarly, goods that are offloaded from an aircraft at a place in Iran and reloaded onto the same aircraft or another aircraft in the same location en route to a destination outside of Iran and that have not otherwise come into contact with Iran are not considered goods of Iranian origin.
(c) The terms services of Iranian origin and Iranian-origin services include:
services of
Iranian origin
and
Iranian-origin services
include:
(1) Services performed in Iran or by an entity organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, or a person residing in Iran; and
(2) Services performed outside Iran by a citizen, national or permanent resident of Iran who is ordinarily resident in Iran, or by an entity organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran.
(d) The term goods or services owned or controlled by the Government of Iran includes:
goods or
services owned
or controlled
by the Government
of Iran
includes:
(1) Goods grown, produced, manufactured, extracted or processed by the Government of Iran or goods in its possession or control; and
(2) Services performed by the Government of Iran.
(e) The terms services of Iranian-origin, Iranian-origin services, and services owned or controlled by the Government of Iran do not include:
services of
Iranian-origin, Iranian-origin services,
and
services owned
or controlled
by the
Government of Iran
do not include:
(1) Diplomatic and consular services performed by or on behalf of the Government of Iran;
(2) Diplomatic and consular services performed by or on behalf of the Government of the United States; or
(3) Services performed outside Iran by an Iranian citizen or national who is resident in the United States or a third country, provided such services are not performed by or on behalf of the Government of Iran (other than diplomatic and consular services), an entity organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, or a person located in Iran.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 94257, Dec. 23, 2016]]

§ 560.307   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 560.308   Importation of goods.

With respect to goods (including software), the term importation means the bringing of any goods into the United States, except that in the case of goods transported by vessel, importation means the bringing of any goods into the United States with the intent to unlade them.
importation
means the bringing of any goods into the United States, except that in the case of goods transported by vessel,
importation
means the bringing of any goods into the United States with the intent to unlade them.

§ 560.309   [Reserved]


§ 560.310   License.

Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.

§ 560.311   General license.

The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.

§ 560.312   Specific license.

The term specific license means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.

§ 560.313   Entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran.

The term entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran includes any corporation, partnership, association, or other entity in which the Government of Iran owns a 50 percent or greater interest or a controlling interest, and any entity which is otherwise controlled by that government.
entity owned
or controlled
by the
Government of Iran
includes any corporation, partnership, association, or other entity in which the Government of Iran owns a 50 percent or greater interest or a controlling interest, and any entity which is otherwise controlled by that government.

§ 560.314   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States
person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 560.315   Information or informational materials.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term information or informational materials includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or
informational materials
includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
Note to paragraph (
a
) of § 560.315:
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to exports, does not include items:
information or
informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420, the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 560.316   New investment.

The term new investment means a transaction after 12:01 Eastern Daylight Time, May 7, 1995, that constitutes:
new investment
means a transaction after 12:01 Eastern Daylight Time, May 7, 1995, that constitutes:
(a) A commitment or contribution of funds or other assets; or
(b) A loan or other extension of credit, as defined in § 560.317.

§ 560.317   Credits or loans.

The term credits or loans means any transfer or extension of funds or credit on a basis of an obligation to repay, or any assumption or guarantee of the obligation of another to repay an extension of funds or credit, including but not limited to: Overdrafts; currency swaps; purchases of debt securities issued by the Government of Iran; purchases of a loan made by another person; sales of financial assets subject to an agreement to repurchase; renewals or refinancings whereby funds or credits are transferred to or extended to a prohibited borrower or prohibited recipient; the issuance of standby letters of credit; and drawdowns on existing lines of credit.
credits
or
loans
means any transfer or extension of funds or credit on a basis of an obligation to repay, or any assumption or guarantee of the obligation of another to repay an extension of funds or credit, including but not limited to: Overdrafts; currency swaps; purchases of debt securities issued by the Government of Iran; purchases of a loan made by another person; sales of financial assets subject to an agreement to repurchase; renewals or refinancings whereby funds or credits are transferred to or extended to a prohibited borrower or prohibited recipient; the issuance of standby letters of credit; and drawdowns on existing lines of credit.

§ 560.318   [Reserved]


§ 560.319   United States depository institution.

The term United States depository institution means any entity (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, or any agency, office, or branch located in the United States of a foreign entity, that is engaged primarily in the business of banking (for example, banks, savings banks, savings associations, credit unions, trust companies, and United States bank holding companies).
United States
depository institution
means any entity (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, or any agency, office, or branch located in the United States of a foreign entity, that is engaged primarily in the business of banking (for example, banks, savings banks, savings associations, credit unions, trust companies, and United States bank holding companies).

§ 560.320   Iranian accounts.

The term Iranian accounts means accounts of persons who are ordinarily resident in Iran, except when such persons are not located in Iran, or of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 of this part, maintained on the books of either a United States depository institution or a United States registered broker or dealer in securities.
Iranian accounts
means accounts of persons who are ordinarily resident in Iran, except when such persons are not located in Iran, or of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 of this part, maintained on the books of either a United States depository institution or a United States registered broker or dealer in securities.

§ 560.321   United States registered broker or dealer in securities.

The term United States registered broker or dealer in securities means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches), or any agency, office or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that:
United States
registered broker
or dealer
in securities
means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches), or any agency, office or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that:
(a) Is a “broker” or “dealer” in securities within the meanings set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(b) Holds or clears customer accounts; and
(c) Is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

§ 560.322   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 560.211 held in the name of the Government of Iran, any Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, or in which the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 560.211 held in the name of the Government of Iran, any Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, or in which the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
Note to 1 § 560.322:
See § 560.425 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 560.323   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 560.324   Iranian financial institution.

The term Iranian financial institution means any entity (including foreign branches), wherever located, organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, or in Iran, or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing, that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing.
Iranian financial
institution
means any entity (including foreign branches), wherever located, organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, or in Iran, or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing, that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing.
Note 1 to § 560.324:
The names of persons that the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has identified as meeting this definition are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[IRAN].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. However, the property and interests in property of any persons meeting the definition of the term Iranian financial institution are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the Federal Register or incorporated into the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[IRAN].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
However, the property and interests in property of any persons meeting the definition of the term
Iranian financial institution
are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.
Note 2 to § 560.324:
Section 501.807 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of OFAC's determination that they fall within the definition of the term Iranian financial institution.
Iranian financial institution.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 3332, Jan. 21, 2016; 83 FR 55271, Nov. 5, 2018]]

§ 560.325   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 560.326   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 560.327   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial
institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 560.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 560.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 560.403   Transshipment or transit through Iran.

The prohibitions in §§ 560.204, 560.206, and 560.208 apply to export, reexport or supply transactions which require a transshipment or transit of goods or technology through Iran to third countries.

§ 560.404   [Reserved]


§ 560.405   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction authorized.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property;
(b) Payments or transfers of funds;
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 560.405:
See § 560.516 for a general license authorizing United States depository institutions or United States registered brokers or dealers in securities to process transfers of funds if the transfer arises from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give effect to, an underlying transaction authorized by a specific or general license issued pursuant to, or set forth in, this part.
See
§ 560.516 for a general license authorizing United States depository institutions or United States registered brokers or dealers in securities to process transfers of funds if the transfer arises from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give effect to, an underlying transaction authorized by a specific or general license issued pursuant to, or set forth in, this part.
(c) Provision of any transportation services to or from Iran not explicitly authorized in or pursuant to this part other than loading, transporting, and discharging licensed or exempt cargo there;
(d) Distribution or leasing in Iran of any containers or similar goods owned or controlled by United States persons after the performance of transportation services to Iran;
(e) Financing of sales for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that is authorized by general or specific license pursuant to § 560.530; and
Note to paragraph (
e
) of § 560.405:
See § 560.530(a)(2) through (4) for general licenses authorizing, with certain exceptions, the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, and replacement parts for certain medical devices to the Government of Iran, individuals or entities in Iran, or persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing. These general licenses also authorize the conduct of related transactions, including, but not limited to, financing and payment, provided that payment terms and financing are limited to, and consistent with, § 560.532, which sets forth payment terms for sales authorized by one of the general licenses set forth in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of § 560.530 or by a specific license issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of the same section.
See
§ 560.530(a)(2) through (4) for general licenses authorizing, with certain exceptions, the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, and replacement parts for certain medical devices to the Government of Iran, individuals or entities in Iran, or persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing. These general licenses also authorize the conduct of related transactions, including, but not limited to, financing and payment, provided that payment terms and financing are limited to, and consistent with, § 560.532, which sets forth payment terms for sales authorized by one of the general licenses set forth in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of § 560.530 or by a specific license issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of the same section.
(f) Letter of credit services relating to transactions authorized in § 560.534. See § 560.535(a).
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 18993, Apr. 7, 2014; 81 FR 3332, Jan. 21, 2016]]

§ 560.406   Transshipment or transit through the United States.

(a) The prohibitions in § 560.201 apply to the importation into the United States, for transshipment or transit, of Iranian-origin goods or goods owned or controlled by the Government of Iran which are intended or destined for third countries.
(b) The prohibitions in § 560.204 apply to the transshipment or transit of foreign goods through the United States which are intended or destined for Iran or the Government of Iran, including entities owned or controlled by the Government of Iran.
(c) Goods in which the Government of Iran, any Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 has an interest which are imported into or transshipped through the United States are subject to the prohibitions in § 560.211.

§ 560.407   Transactions related to Iranian-origin goods.

(a) Importation into the United States from third countries of goods containing Iranian-origin raw materials or components and transactions relating to such goods are not prohibited by § 560.201 or § 560.206 if those raw materials or components have been incorporated into manufactured products or substantially transformed in a third country by a person other than a United States person.
(b) Transactions relating to Iranian-origin goods that have not been incorporated into manufactured products or substantially transformed in a third country are prohibited.

§ 560.408   Importation into and release from a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone.

The prohibitions in § 560.201 apply to importation into a bonded warehouse or a foreign trade zone of the United States.

§ 560.409   [Reserved]


§ 560.410   Provision of services.

(a) The prohibition on the exportation, reexportation, sale or supply of services contained in § 560.204 applies to services performed on behalf of a person in Iran or the Government of Iran or where the benefit of such services is otherwise received in Iran, if such services are performed:
(1) In the United States, or
(2) Outside the United States by a United States person, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States.
(b) The benefit of services performed anywhere in the world on behalf of the Government of Iran is presumed to be received in Iran.
(c) The prohibitions on transactions involving blocked property contained in § 560.211 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211; or
(2) With respect to property interests of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(d) Example. A United States person is engaged in a prohibited exportation of services to Iran when it extends credit to a third-country firm specifically to enable that firm to manufacture goods for sale to Iran or for an entity of the Government of Iran. See also § 560.416.
Example.
A United States person is engaged in a prohibited exportation of services to Iran when it extends credit to a third-country firm specifically to enable that firm to manufacture goods for sale to Iran or for an entity of the Government of Iran.
See also
§ 560.416.

§ 560.411   [Reserved]


§ 560.412   Extensions of credit or loans to Iran.

(a) The prohibitions contained in §§ 560.204 and 560.207 apply to but are not limited to the unauthorized renewal or rescheduling of credits or loans in existence as of May 6, 1995, such as the extension of a standby letter of credit.
(b) The prohibitions contained in § 560.209 apply, among other things, to the unauthorized renewal or rescheduling of credits or loans in existence as of March 15, 1995.
(c) The prohibitions contained in §§ 560.204, 560.207 and 560.209 apply to, among other things, credits or loans in any currency.

§ 560.413   [Reserved]


§ 560.414   Reexportation of certain U.S.-origin goods exported prior to May 7, 1995.

The prohibitions on reexportation in § 560.205 do not apply to United States-origin goods or technology that were exported from the United States prior to 12:01 a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, May 7, 1995, if:
(a) Such goods or technology were not the property of a United States person as of 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time, May 7, 1995; and
(b) The reexportation of the U.S.-origin goods or technology to Iran or the Government of Iran was not subject to reexport (as opposed to export) license application requirements under U.S. regulations in effect prior to May 6, 1995.
Note 1 to § 560.414:
The exclusion in this section applies, among other things, to goods that were as of May 6, 1995, classified under the U.S. Department of Commerce's Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) as ECCNs 2A994; 3A993; 5A992; 5A995; 6A990; 6A994; 7A994; 8A992; 8A994; 9A990; 9A992; and 9A994, that were exported from the United States prior to 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time, May 7, 1995, and were not the property of a United States person as of 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time, May 7, 1995. As of April 26, 1999, items covered by this note are classified under ECCNs 2A994; 3A992.a; 5A991.f; 5A992.a and .c; 6A991; 6A998.a; 7A994; 8A992.d, .e, .f and .g; 9A990.a and .b; and 9A991.d and .e.
Note 2 to § 560.414:
A reexportation of U.S.-origin goods or technology which meets the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section, or which is not within the scope of § 560.205, nevertheless may require specific authorization by other agencies of the U.S. Government for reexportation to Iran or the Government of Iran. For example, items which meet the conditions of paragraph (a) may nevertheless require an export license under the End User and End Use Control Policies found in provisions of the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 744).

§ 560.415   [Reserved]


§ 560.416   Brokering services.

(a) For purposes of the prohibitions in §§ 560.201, 560.204, 560.205, 560.206, and 560.208, the term services includes performing a brokering function.
services
includes performing a brokering function.
(b) Examples. A person within the United States, or a United States person, wherever located, may not:
Examples.
A person within the United States, or a United States person, wherever located, may not:
(1) Act as broker for the provision of goods, services or technology, from whatever source, to or from Iran or the Government of Iran;
(2) Act as broker for the purchase or swap of crude oil of Iranian origin or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran;
(3) Act as broker for the provision of financing, a financial guarantee or an extension of credit by any person to Iran or the Government of Iran;
(4) Act as a broker for the provision of financing, a financial guarantee or an extension of credit to any person specifically to enable that person to construct or operate a facility in Iran or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran; or
(5) Act as a broker for the provision of financing, a financial guarantee, or an extension of credit to any person specifically to enable that person to provide goods, services, or technology intended for Iran or the Government of Iran.

§ 560.417   Facilitation; change of policies and procedures; referral of business opportunities offshore.

With respect to § 560.208, a prohibited facilitation or approval of a transaction by a foreign person occurs, among other instances, when a United States person:
(a) Alters its operating policies or procedures, or those of a foreign affiliate, to permit a foreign affiliate to accept or perform a specific contract, engagement or transaction involving Iran or the Government of Iran without the approval of the United States person, where such transaction previously required approval by the United States person and such transaction by the foreign affiliate would be prohibited by this part if performed directly by a United States person or from the United States;
(b) Refers to a foreign person purchase orders, requests for bids, or similar business opportunities involving Iran or the Government of Iran to which the United States person could not directly respond as a result of the prohibitions contained in this part; or
(c) Changes the operating policies and procedures of a particular affiliate with the specific purpose of facilitating transactions that would be prohibited by this part if performed by a United States person or from the United States.

§ 560.418   Release of technology or software in the United States or a third country.

The release of technology or software in the United States, or by a United States person wherever located, to any person violates the prohibitions of this part if made with knowledge or reason to know the technology is intended for Iran or the Government of Iran, unless that technology or software meets the definition of information and informational materials in § 560.315.
Note 1 to § 560.418:
The release of technology or software in the United States, or the release of U.S. origin technology or software in a third country, to a foreign national may require a license from the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (the “EAR”). The EAR require a license for such release if both of the following conditions are met:
(a) That technology or software would require a license for exportation (or reexportation) to the home country of the foreign national; and
(b) The foreign national is not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States (or of the third country) or is not a protected individual under the Immigration and Naturalization Act (8 U.S.C. Sec. 1324(b)(a)(3)). See 15 CFR 734.2(b)(2)(ii) and 734.2(b)(5).
See
15 CFR 734.2(b)(2)(ii) and 734.2(b)(5).
Note 2 to § 560.418:
The transfer to a foreign national of technology subject to regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State or other agencies of the U.S. Government may require authorization by those agencies.
Note 3 to § 560.418:
See § 560.540 for a general license authorizing the exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran of certain services, software, and hardware incident to the exchange of communications.
See
§ 560.540 for a general license authorizing the exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran of certain services, software, and hardware incident to the exchange of communications.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 43312, May 17, 2024]]

§ 560.419   U.S. employment of persons ordinarily resident in Iran.

The prohibitions in § 560.201 make it unlawful to hire an Iranian national ordinarily resident in Iran to come to the United States solely or for the principal purpose of engaging in employment on behalf of an entity in Iran or as the employee of a U.S. person, unless authorized pursuant to § 560.505. See also § 560.418 with respect to the release of technology and software.
See also
§ 560.418 with respect to the release of technology and software.

§ 560.420   Reexportation by non-U.S. persons of certain foreign-made products containing U.S.-origin goods or technology.

For purposes of satisfying the de minimis content rule in § 560.205(b)(2):
(a) U.S.-origin goods (excluding software) falling within the definition in § 560.205 must comprise less than 10 percent of the total value of the foreign-made good (excluding software);
(b) U.S.-origin software falling within the definition in § 560.205 must comprise less than 10 percent of the total value of the foreign-made software;
(c) U.S.-origin technology falling within the definition in § 560.205 must comprise less than 10 percent of the total value of the foreign-made technology; and,
(d) In cases involving a complex product made of a combination of U.S.-origin goods (including software) and technology falling within the definition in § 560.205, the aggregate value of all such U.S.-origin goods (including software) and such technology contained in the foreign-made product must be less than 10 percent of the total value of the foreign-made product.
Note 1 to § 560.420:
Notwithstanding the exceptions contained in § 560.205(b)(1) and (b)(2) and this section, a reexportation to Iran or the Government of Iran of U.S.-origin items falling within the definition in § 560.205 is prohibited if those U.S.-origin goods (including software) or that technology have been substantially transformed or incorporated into a foreign-made end product which is destined to end uses or end users prohibited under regulations administered by other U.S. Government agencies. See, e.g., the Export Administration Regulations (31 CFR 736.2(b)(5), 744.2, 744.3, 744.4, 744.7, and 744.10); International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR 123.9).
Note 2 to § 560.420:
A reexportation not prohibited by § 560.205 may nevertheless require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
Note 3 to § 560.420:
The provisions of § 560.205 and this section apply only to persons other than United States persons.

§ 560.421   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 560.211 if effected after the effective date.

§ 560.422   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 560.211, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 560.211, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, such property shall be deemed to be property in which the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or that person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 560.423   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 560.211 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, or property in which the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 has or has had an interest since the effective date.

§ 560.424   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 560.211, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note to § 560.424:
See also § 560.502(f), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 560.502(f), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 560.425   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

(a) Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, regardless of whether the entity itself is identified as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(b) This section, which deals with the consequences of ownership of entities, in no way limits the definition of the Government of Iran in § 560.304.
[[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 560.426   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from any such person.

§ 560.427   Exportation, reexportation, sale or supply of financial services to Iran or the Government of Iran.

(a) The prohibition on the exportation, reexportation, sale or supply of financial services to Iran or the Government of Iran contained in § 560.204 applies to:
(1) The transfer of funds, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran or the Government of Iran; and
(2) The provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran or the Government of Iran of insurance services, investment or brokerage services (including but not limited to brokering or trading services regarding securities, debt, commodities, options, or foreign exchange), banking services, money remittance services; loans, guarantees, letters of credit, or other extensions of credit; or the service of selling or redeeming traveler's checks, money orders, and prepaid access products.
Note to paragraph (
a
) of § 560.427:
See § 560.516 of this part, which authorizes only United States depository institutions and United States registered brokers or dealers in securities to process certain transfers of funds to or from Iran.
(b) Pursuant to the prohibition in § 560.204 on the exportation, reexportation, sale or supply of financial services to Iran or the Government of Iran, United States depository institutions and United States registered brokers or dealers in securities are prohibited from performing services with respect to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 560.427:
See § 560.517 of this part for general licenses authorizing United States depository institutions and United States registered brokers or dealers in securities to operate Iranian accounts in certain limited circumstances.
See
§ 560.517 of this part for general licenses authorizing United States depository institutions and United States registered brokers or dealers in securities to operate Iranian accounts in certain limited circumstances.

§ 560.428   Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.

The prohibition in § 560.211 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including, but not limited to, charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a U.S. financial institution to the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 560.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Iran sanctions page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac).
www.treasury.gov/ofac
).

§ 560.502   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) All transactions involving property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 authorized under specific licenses issued pursuant to this part prior to February 6, 2012, are authorized, and such specific licenses shall remain in effect according to their terms, provided that such specific licenses have an expiration date. If a specific license issued pursuant to this part but not part 535 has no expiration date, then all transactions involving property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 authorized under such a specific license were authorized until April 6, 2012, and such a specific license shall otherwise expire in its entirety on January 22, 2013. If a specific license issued pursuant to this part and part 535 has no expiration date, then all transactions involving property and interests in property of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 authorized under such a specific license are authorized, and such a specific license shall remain in effect according to its terms. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes payments from blocked funds or debits to blocked accounts, except for payments from funds or debits to accounts blocked pursuant to part 535 that are authorized by specific licenses issued pursuant to this part and part 535 of this chapter.
(e) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data which are not prohibited by this part or which do not require a license by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government. See also § 560.701(d).
See also
§ 560.701(d).
(f) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(g) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant Office of Foreign Assets Control general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 560.503   Exclusion from licenses.

The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 560.504   [Reserved]


§ 560.505   Activities and services related to certain nonimmigrant and immigrant categories authorized.

(a)(1) Persons otherwise eligible for non-immigrant classification under categories A-3 and G-5 (attendants, servants and personal employees of aliens in the United States on diplomatic status), D (crewmen), F (students), I (information media representatives), J (exchange visitors), M (non-academic students), O (aliens with extraordinary ability), P (athletics, artists and entertainers), Q (international cultural exchange visitors), R (religious workers), or S (witnesses) are authorized to carry out in the United States those activities for which such a visa has been granted by the U.S. State Department or such nonimmigrant status or related benefit has been granted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
(2) U.S. persons are authorized to export services to Iran in connection with the filing of an individual's application for the non-immigrant visa categories listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)(1) Persons otherwise eligible for nonimmigrant classification under categories E-2 (treaty investor), H (temporary worker), or L (intra-company transferee) and all immigrant classifications are authorized to carry out in the United States those activities for which such a visa has been granted by the U.S. State Department or such nonimmigrant or immigrant status, or related benefit, has been granted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, provided that the persons are not coming to the United States to work as an agent, employee, or contractor of the Government of Iran or a business entity or other organization in Iran.
(2) U.S. persons are authorized to export services to Iran in connection with the filing of an individual's application for the visa categories listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)(1) U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to export financial services to Iran in connection with an individual's application for a non-immigrant visa under category E-2 (treaty investor) or an immigrant visa under category EB-5 (immigrant investor), provided that any transfer of funds pursuant to the authorization set forth in this paragraph is effected in accordance with § 560.516.
(2) In the event services are exported under paragraph (c)(1) of this section in connection with an application for an E-2 or EB-5 visa that is denied, withdrawn, or otherwise does not result in the issuance of such visa, U.S. persons are authorized to transfer, in a lump sum back to Iran or to a third country, any funds belonging to the applicant that are held in an escrow account during the pendency of, and in connection with, such visa application, provided that any transfer of funds pursuant to the authorization set forth in this paragraph is effected in accordance with § 560.516.
(3) Paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not authorize:
(i) The exportation of financial services by U.S. persons other than in connection with funds used in pursuit of an E-2 or EB-5 visa;
(ii) Any investment in Iran by a U.S. person;
(iii) The exportation or reexportation to Iran of any goods (including software) or technology; or
(iv) The provision of services to any persons coming to the United States to work as an agent, employee, or contractor of the Government of Iran or a business entity or other organization in Iran.
(d) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section authorizes the release of technology or software to students ordinarily resident in Iran who are attending school in the United States as authorized by that paragraph, provided that all of the following requirements are met:
(1) Such release is ordinarily incident and necessary to the educational program in which the student is enrolled;
(2) The technology or software being released is designated as EAR99 under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (the “EAR”), or constitutes Educational Information not subject to the EAR, as set forth in 15 CFR 734.9;
(3) The release does not otherwise require a license from the Department of Commerce; and
(4) The student to whom the release is made is not enrolled in school or participating in the educational program as an agent, employee, or contractor of the Government of Iran or a business entity or other organization in Iran.
Note to § 560.505:
See § 560.554 of this part for general licenses authorizing the importation and exportation of services related to conferences in the United States or third countries.
See
§ 560.554 of this part for general licenses authorizing the importation and exportation of services related to conferences in the United States or third countries.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75848, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.506   Importation and exportation of certain gifts authorized.

The importation into the United States of Iranian-origin goods from Iran or a third country, and the exportation from the United States to Iran of goods, are authorized for goods sent as gifts to persons provided that the value of each gift is not more than $100; the goods are of a type and in quantities normally given as gifts between individuals; and the goods are not controlled for chemical and biological weapons (CB), missile technology (MT), national security (NS), or nuclear proliferation (NP). See Commerce Control List, Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 774).

§ 560.507   [Reserved]


§ 560.508   Telecommunications and mail transactions authorized.

(a) All transactions with respect to the receipt and transmission of telecommunications involving Iran are authorized. This section does not authorize the provision, sale, or lease to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 of telecommunications equipment or technology; nor does it authorize the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 560.540 for a general license authorizing the exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran of certain services, software, and hardware incident to the exchange of communications.
See
§ 560.540 for a general license authorizing the exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran of certain services, software, and hardware incident to the exchange of communications.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
(c) All transactions by U.S. persons, including payment and transfers to common carriers, incident to the receipt or transmission of mail between the United States and Iran are authorized, provided that mail is limited to personal communications not involving a transfer of anything of value. For purposes of this section, the term mail includes parcels only to the extent the parcels contain goods exempted from the prohibitions contained in this part or otherwise eligible for importation from or exportation to Iran under a general or specific license.
mail
includes parcels only to the extent the parcels contain goods exempted from the prohibitions contained in this part or otherwise eligible for importation from or exportation to Iran under a general or specific license.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75848, Dec. 26, 2012; 89 FR 43312, May 17, 2024]]

§ 560.509   Certain transactions related to patents, trademarks, and copyrights authorized.

(a) All of the following transactions in connection with patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property protection in the United States or Iran are authorized, including importation of or dealing in Iranian-origin services, payment for such services, and payment to persons in Iran directly connected to such intellectual property protection:
(1) The filing and prosecution of any application to obtain a patent, trademark, copyright or other form of intellectual property protection;
(2) The receipt of a patent, trademark, copyright or other form of intellectual property protection;
(3) The renewal or maintenance of a patent, trademark, copyright or other form of intellectual property protection; and
(4) The filing and prosecution of opposition or infringement proceedings with respect to a patent, trademark, copyright or other form of intellectual property protection, or the entrance of a defense to any such proceedings.
(b) This section authorizes the payment of fees currently due to the United States Government or the Government of Iran, or of the reasonable and customary fees and charges currently due to attorneys or representatives within the United States or Iran, in connection with the transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section, except that payment effected pursuant to the terms of this paragraph may not be made from a blocked account.
(c) This section does not authorize any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.510   Transactions related to the resolution of disputes between the United States or United States nationals and the Government of Iran.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions in connection with awards, decisions or orders of the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal in The Hague, the International Court of Justice, or other international tribunals (collectively, “tribunals”); agreements settling claims brought before tribunals; and awards, orders, or decisions of an administrative, judicial, or arbitral proceeding in the United States or abroad, where the proceeding involves the enforcement of awards, decisions, or orders of tribunals, or is contemplated under an international agreement, or involves claims arising before 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time, May 7, 1995, that resolve disputes between the Government of Iran and the United States or United States nationals, including the following transactions:
(1) Importation into the United States of, or any transaction related to, goods and services of Iranian origin or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran;
(2) Exportation or reexportation to Iran or the Government of Iran of any goods, technology, or services, except to the extent that such exportation or reexportation is also subject to export licensing application requirements of another agency of the United States Government and the granting of such a license by that agency would be prohibited by law;
(3) Financial transactions related to the resolution of disputes at tribunals, including transactions related to the funding of proceedings or of accounts related to proceedings or to a tribunal; participation, representation, or testimony before a tribunal; and the payment of awards of a tribunal; and
(4) Other transactions otherwise prohibited by this part which are necessary to permit implementation of the foregoing awards, decisions, orders, or agreements.
(b) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize payment of costs related to the storage or maintenance of goods in which the Government of Iran has title, and to authorize the transfer of title to such goods, provided that such goods are in the United States and that such goods are the subject of a proceeding pending before a tribunal.
(c)(1) All transactions are authorized with respect to the importation of Iranian-origin goods and services necessary to the initiation and conduct of legal proceedings, in the United States or abroad, including administrative, judicial, and arbitral proceedings and proceedings before tribunals.
(2) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize the exportation to Iran or the Government of Iran of goods, and of services not otherwise authorized by § 560.525, necessary to the initiation and conduct of legal proceedings, in the United States or abroad, including administrative, judicial, and arbitral proceedings and proceedings before tribunals, except to the extent that the exportation is also subject to export licensing application requirements of another agency of the United States Government and the granting of such a license by that agency would be prohibited by law.
(3) Representation of United States persons or of third country persons in legal proceedings, in the United States or abroad, including administrative, judicial, and arbitral proceedings and proceedings before tribunals, against Iran or the Government of Iran is not prohibited by this part. The exportation of certain legal services to a person in Iran or the Government of Iran is authorized in § 560.525.
Note to paragraph (
c
)(3) of § 560.510:
The entry of any judgment or order, or entry into a settlement agreement, that effects a transfer of blocked property or interests in property, or the execution of any judgment against property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 560.211 is prohibited, unless specifically licensed in accordance with § 560.212(e). See § 560.525(c).
See
§ 560.525(c).
(d) The following are authorized:
(1) All transactions related to payment of awards of the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal in The Hague against Iran.
(2) All transactions necessary to the payment and implementation of awards (other than exports or reexports subject to export license application requirements of other agencies of the United States Government) in a legal proceeding to which the United States Government is a party, or to payments pursuant to settlement agreements entered into by the United States Government in such a legal proceeding.
(e) This section does not authorize any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.511   [Reserved]


§ 560.512   Iranian Government missions in the United States.

(a) The importation of goods or services into the United States by, and the provision of goods or services in the United States to, the diplomatic missions of the Government of Iran to international organizations in the United States, and the Iranian Interests Section of the Embassy of Pakistan (or any successor protecting power) in the United States are authorized, provided that:
(1) The goods or services are for the conduct of the official business of the missions or the Iranian Interests Section, or for personal use of the employees of the missions or the Iranian Interests Section, and are not for resale;
(2) The transaction does not involve the purchase, sale, financing, or refinancing of real property;
(3) The transaction is not otherwise prohibited by law; and
(4) The transaction is conducted through an account at a U.S. financial institution specifically licensed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(4) of § 560.512:
U.S. financial institutions are required to obtain specific licenses to operate accounts for, or extend credit to, the diplomatic missions of the Government of Iran to international organizations in the United States, or the Iranian Interests Section of the Embassy of Pakistan (or any successor protecting power) in the United States.
(b) The importation of goods or services into the United States by, and the provision of goods or services in the United States to, the employees of the diplomatic missions of the Government of Iran to international organizations in the United States, and the employees of the Iranian Interests Section of the Embassy of Pakistan (or any successor protecting power) in the United States, are authorized, provided that:
(1) The goods or services are for personal use of the employees of the missions or the Iranian Interests Section, and are not for resale; and
(2) The transaction is not otherwise prohibited by law.

§§ 560.513-560.515   [Reserved]


§ 560.516   Transfers of funds involving Iran.

(a) United States depository institutions are authorized to process transfers of funds to or from Iran, or for the direct or indirect benefit of persons in Iran or the Government of Iran, if the transfer arises from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give effect to, an underlying transaction that has been authorized by a specific or general license issued pursuant to, or set forth in, this part and does not involve debiting or crediting an Iranian account.
(b) United States registered brokers or dealers in securities are authorized to process transfers of funds to or from Iran, or for the direct or indirect benefit of persons in Iran or the Government of Iran, if the transfer arises from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give effect to, an underlying transaction that has been authorized by a specific or general license issued pursuant to, or set forth in, this part and does not involve debiting or crediting an Iranian account.

§ 560.517   Exportation of services: Iranian accounts at United States depository institutions or United States registered brokers or dealers in securities.

(a) United States depository institutions are authorized to provide and be compensated for the following services and incidental transactions with respect to Iranian accounts other than blocked accounts, as defined in § 560.322:
(1) The maintenance of Iranian accounts other than blocked accounts, including the payment of interest and the debiting of service charges; and
(2) At the request of the account party, who may not be the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, the closing of Iranian accounts other than blocked accounts and the lump sum transfer only to the account party of all remaining funds and other assets in the account.
(b) United States registered brokers or dealers in securities are authorized to provide and be compensated for the following services and incidental transactions with respect to Iranian accounts other than blocked accounts, as defined in § 560.322:
(1) The limited maintenance of an Iranian account other than a blocked account, including only the payment into such account of interest, cash dividends, and stock dividends; the debiting of service charges; and the execution of stock splits and dividend reinvestment plans; and
(2) At the request of the account party, who may not be the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, the closing of Iranian accounts other than blocked accounts through the one-time liquidation of all assets in the account at fair market value and the lump sum transfer only to the account party of all proceeds derived therefrom and all remaining funds in the account.
Note to paragraphs (
a
) and (
b
) of § 560.517:
See § 560.547, which authorizes U.S. financial institutions to debit blocked accounts for normal service charges, and § 560.213, concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 560.547, which authorizes U.S. financial institutions to debit blocked accounts for normal service charges, and § 560.213, concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
(c) Specific licenses may be issued with respect to the operation of Iranian accounts that constitute accounts of:
(1) Foreign government missions and their personnel in Iran; or
(2) Diplomatic missions of the Government of Iran to international organizations in the United States or the Iranian Interests Section of the Embassy of Pakistan in the United States.

§ 560.518   Transactions in Iranian-origin and Iranian government property.

Except for transactions involving the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, and provided that paragraph (a) of this section does not affect the status of property blocked pursuant to part 535 or this part or detained or seized, or subject to detention or seizure, pursuant to this part, the following transactions are authorized:
(a) All domestic transactions with respect to Iranian-origin goods located in the United States other than goods blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(b) Transactions by a United States person with third-country nationals incidental to the storage and maintenance in third countries of Iranian-origin goods owned prior to May 7, 1995, by that United States person or acquired thereafter by that United States person consistent with the provisions of this part;
(c) Exportation of Iranian-origin household and personal effects from the United States incident to the relocation of United States persons outside the United States; and
(d) The use or disposition by a United States person of Iranian-origin household and personal effects that are located outside the United States and that have been acquired by the United States person in transactions not prohibited by part 535 or this part.
Note to § 560.518:
See § 560.543 for an authorization to engage in all transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the sale of certain real and personal property located in Iran.
See
§ 560.543 for an authorization to engage in all transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the sale of certain real and personal property located in Iran.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 83 FR 55271, Nov. 5, 2018]]

§ 560.519   Journalistic activities and establishment of news bureaus in Iran.

(a) Subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, news reporting organizations that are United States persons, and individuals who are United States persons regularly employed by a news reporting organization either as journalists (including photojournalists) or as supporting broadcast or technical personnel, are authorized to engage in the following transactions in Iran to the extent such transactions are ordinarily incident to their journalistic activities in Iran:
(1) Hiring and compensating support staff in Iran (e.g., stringers, translators, interpreters, camera operators, technical experts, freelance producers, or drivers), or persons to handle logistics, or other office personnel as needed;
(2) Leasing or renting office space;
(3) Purchasing, leasing, or renting Iranian-origin goods and services (e.g., mobile phones and related air time), selling such goods when no longer needed to persons other than the Government of Iran, or importing them into the United States;
(4) Renting and using telecommunications facilities in Iran and paying fees related to the dissemination of information and transmission of news feeds (e.g., fees for satellite uplink facilities, live news feeds, taxes);
(5) Exporting and reexporting to Iran, and subsequently reexporting from Iran, equipment necessary for and ordinarily incident to journalistic activities, provided such equipment is designated as EAR99 under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (the “EAR”), and further provided that such equipment is reexported from Iran to the United States or a third country when no longer needed for journalistic activities in Iran; and
(6) Paying for all expenses ordinarily incident to journalistic activities, including sales or employment taxes to the Government of Iran.
(b) Subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, news reporting organizations that are United States persons are authorized to establish and operate news bureaus in Iran and to engage in the transactions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section to the extent such transactions are ordinarily incident to the establishment and operation of a news bureau in Iran.
(c) The authorizations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are subject to the following limitations and conditions:
(1) No goods, technology, or software listed on the Commerce Control List in the EAR, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1 (CCL), or that requires a license under part 744 of the EAR, or controlled by the United States Department of State under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, may be exported or reexported to Iran without separate authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(1):
The Commerce Control List in the EAR, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1, includes items such as many laptop computers, personal computers, cell phones, personal digital assistants and other wireless handheld devices/blackberries, and other similar items. The exportation or reexportation of these items to Iran, even on a temporary basis, is prohibited, unless specifically authorized in a license issued pursuant to this part in a manner consistent with the Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act of 1992 and other relevant law.
(2) Any United States person exporting or reexporting to Iran EAR99 equipment pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(i) Must maintain ownership and control of such equipment at all times while it is in Iran; and
(ii) Must submit a report to the Licensing Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Annex, Washington, DC 20220 within 10 business days of the export or reexport specifying the items exported or reexported and confirming that they are EAR99, and another report confirming that such items have been reexported from Iran to the United States or a third country within 10 business days of the date of reexportation from Iran.
(3) This section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation to Iran of any goods, technology, or services that are not necessary and ordinarily incident to journalistic activities in Iran or to the establishment and operation of a news bureau in Iran.
(d) For the purposes of this section, the term news reporting organization means an entity whose primary purpose is the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public.
news reporting organization
means an entity whose primary purpose is the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public.
Note 2 to § 560.519:
For a specific licensing policy governing the establishment and operation of news bureaus in the United States by Iranian news organizations, see § 560.549.
Note 3 to § 560.519:
See § 560.540 for a general license authorizing the exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran of certain services, software, and hardware incident to the exchange of communications.
See
§ 560.540 for a general license authorizing the exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran of certain services, software, and hardware incident to the exchange of communications.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended by 89 FR 43312, May 17, 2024]]

§ 560.520   [Reserved]


§ 560.521   Diplomatic pouches.

The following transactions are authorized:
(a) The importation into the United States from Iran, or the exportation from the United States to Iran, of diplomatic pouches and their contents; and
(b) The exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, of any goods or technology to a third-country government, or to its contractors or agents, for shipment to Iran via a diplomatic pouch. To the extent necessary, this section also authorizes the shipment of such goods or technology by the third-country government to Iran via a diplomatic pouch.
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 560.521:
The exportation or reexportation of certain U.S.-origin goods or technology to a third-country government, or to its contractors or agents, may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce under the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774).

§ 560.522   Allowable payments for overflights of Iranian airspace.

(a) Payments to Iran of charges for services rendered by the Government of Iran in connection with the overflight of Iran or emergency landing in Iran of aircraft owned by a United States person or registered in the United States are authorized.
(b) This section does not authorize any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.523   Exportation of equipment and services relating to information and informational materials.

Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation of equipment and services necessary for the establishment of news wire feeds or other transmissions of information and informational materials.

§ 560.524   Household goods and personal effects.

(a) The exportation from the United States to Iran of household and personal effects, including baggage and articles for family use, of persons departing the United States to relocate in Iran is authorized provided the articles included in such effects have been actually used by such persons or by family members accompanying them, are not intended for any other person or for sale, and are not otherwise prohibited from exportation. See also § 560.518(c).
See also
§ 560.518(c).
(b) The importation of Iranian-origin household and personal effects, including baggage and articles for family use, of persons arriving in the United States is authorized; to qualify, articles included in such effects must have been actually used abroad by such persons or by other family members from the same foreign household, must not be intended for any other person or for sale, and must not be otherwise prohibited from importation. For purposes of this paragraph, household and personal effects include all articles meeting the criteria stated in this paragraph regardless of the time elapsed since the importer's arrival in the United States from Iran.

§ 560.525   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, or to or on behalf of a person in Iran, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in Iran is authorized, provided that receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses are authorized by or pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling is not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made a party to domestic United States legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings;
(3) Initiation and conduct of domestic United States legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings;
(4) Representation of persons before any federal or state agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of United States sanctions against Iran;
(5) Initiation and conduct of legal proceedings, in the United States or abroad, including administrative, judicial, and arbitral proceedings and proceedings before international tribunals (including the Iran-United States Claims Tribunal in The Hague and the International Court of Justice):
(i) To resolve disputes between the Government of Iran or an Iranian national and the United States or a United States national;
(ii) Where the proceeding is contemplated under an international agreement; or
(iii) Where the proceeding involves the enforcement of awards, decisions, or orders resulting from legal proceedings within the scope of paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (a)(5)(ii) of this section, provided that any transaction, unrelated to the provision of legal services or the payment therefor, that is necessary or related to the execution of an award, decision, or order resulting from such legal proceeding, or otherwise necessary for the conduct of such proceeding, and which would otherwise be prohibited by this part requires a specific license in accordance with §§ 560.510 and 560.801;
(6) Provision of legal advice and counseling in connection with settlement or other resolution of matters described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section; and
(7) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing United States law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, or to or on behalf of a person in Iran, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in Iran, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 560.211 is prohibited unless specifically licensed in accordance with § 560.212(e).
(d)(1) All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 must be specifically licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to § 560.553 of this part.
(2) All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of a person in Iran, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in Iran, other than those described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, are authorized, except that nothing in this section authorizes the debiting of any blocked account or the transfer of any blocked property.
(e) This section does not authorize any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.526   [Reserved]


§ 560.527   Rescheduling existing loans.

Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for rescheduling loans or otherwise extending the maturities of existing loans, and for charging fees or interest at commercially reasonable rates, in connection therewith, provided that no new funds or credits are thereby transferred or extended to Iran or the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.

§ 560.528   Aircraft safety.

Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation or reexportation of goods, services, and technology to ensure the safety of civil aviation and safe operation of U.S.-origin commercial passenger aircraft.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]]

§ 560.529   Bunkering and emergency repairs.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, goods or services provided in the United States to a non-Iranian carrier transporting passengers or goods to or from Iran are permissible if they are:
(1) Bunkers or bunkering services;
(2) Supplied or performed in the course of emergency repairs; or
(3) Supplied or performed under circumstances which could not be anticipated prior to the carrier's departure for the United States.
(b) This section does not authorize the provision of goods or services in connection with the transport of any goods to or from the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.

§ 560.530   Commercial sales, exportation, and reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, and certain related software and services.

(a)(1) One-year license requirement. (i) The exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section (as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, shall only be made pursuant to a one-year specific license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) for contracts entered into during the one year period of the license and shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract. No specific license will be granted for the exportation or reexportation of the items set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section to any entity or individual in Iran promoting international terrorism, to any individual or entity designated pursuant to Executive Order 12947 (60 FR 5079, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 356), Executive Order 13224 (66 FR 49079, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 786), or Public Law 104-132, to any narcotics trafficking entity designated pursuant to Executive Order 12978 of October 21, 1995 (60 FR 54579, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 415) or the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901-1908), or to any foreign organization, group, or persons subject to any restriction for its or their involvement in weapons of mass destruction or missile proliferation. Executory contracts entered into pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section prior to the issuance of a one-year license described in this paragraph shall be deemed to have been signed on the date of issuance of that one-year license (and, therefore, the exporter is authorized to make shipments under that contract within the 12-month period beginning on the date of issuance of the one-year license).
One-year license requirement.
(i) The exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section (as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, shall only be made pursuant to a one-year specific license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) for contracts entered into during the one year period of the license and shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract. No specific license will be granted for the exportation or reexportation of the items set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section to any entity or individual in Iran promoting international terrorism, to any individual or entity designated pursuant to Executive Order 12947 (60 FR 5079, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 356), Executive Order 13224 (66 FR 49079, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 786), or Public Law 104-132, to any narcotics trafficking entity designated pursuant to Executive Order 12978 of October 21, 1995 (60 FR 54579, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 415) or the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901-1908), or to any foreign organization, group, or persons subject to any restriction for its or their involvement in weapons of mass destruction or missile proliferation. Executory contracts entered into pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section prior to the issuance of a one-year license described in this paragraph shall be deemed to have been signed on the date of issuance of that one-year license (and, therefore, the exporter is authorized to make shipments under that contract within the 12-month period beginning on the date of issuance of the one-year license).
(ii) For the purposes of this part, “agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section” are:
(A) The excluded agricultural commodities specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section;
(B) The excluded medicines specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section;
(C) The excluded medical devices specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section; and
(D) Agricultural commodities (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section), medicine (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section), and medical devices (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(2)(i) General license for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of agricultural commodities (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) (including bulk agricultural commodities listed in appendix B to this part) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, and the conduct of related transactions, including, but not limited to, the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, the obtaining of insurance, the arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and the entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532 of this part; and further provided that all such exports and reexports are shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract for export or reexport.
General license for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of agricultural commodities (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) (including bulk agricultural commodities listed in appendix B to this part) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, and the conduct of related transactions, including, but not limited to, the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, the obtaining of insurance, the arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and the entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532 of this part; and further provided that all such exports and reexports are shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract for export or reexport.
(ii) Excluded agricultural commodities. Paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following items: Castor beans, castor bean seeds, certified pathogen-free eggs (unfertilized or fertilized), dried egg albumin, live animals (excluding live cattle, shrimp, and shrimp eggs), embryos (excluding cattle embryos), Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, peptones and their derivatives, super absorbent polymers, western red cedar, or all fertilizers.
Excluded agricultural commodities.
Paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following items: Castor beans, castor bean seeds, certified pathogen-free eggs (unfertilized or fertilized), dried egg albumin, live animals (excluding live cattle, shrimp, and shrimp eggs), embryos (excluding cattle embryos), Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, peptones and their derivatives, super absorbent polymers, western red cedar, or all fertilizers.
(iii) Excluded persons. Paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
Excluded persons.
Paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(iv) General license for related training. The provision by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of training necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of agricultural commodities exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing such goods specifically for resale to any of the foregoing is authorized, provided that:
General license for related training.
The provision by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of training necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of agricultural commodities exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing such goods specifically for resale to any of the foregoing is authorized, provided that:
(A) Unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532;
(B) Any technology released pursuant to this authorization is designated as EAR99; and
(C) Such training is not provided to any military, intelligence, or law enforcement entity, or any official or agent thereof.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(2) of § 560.530:
Consistent with section 906(a)(1) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7205), each year OFAC will determine whether to revoke this general license. Unless revoked, the general license will remain in effect.
(3)(i) General license for the exportation or reexportation of medicine and medical devices. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of medicine (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) and medical devices (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, and the conduct of related transactions, including the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, obtaining of insurance, arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532; and further provided that all such exports or reexports are shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract for export or reexport.
General license for the exportation or reexportation of medicine and medical devices.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of medicine (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) and medical devices (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, and the conduct of related transactions, including the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, obtaining of insurance, arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532; and further provided that all such exports or reexports are shipped within the 12-month period beginning on the date of the signing of the contract for export or reexport.
(ii) Excluded medical devices. Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of medical devices on the List of Medical Devices Requiring Specific Authorization, which is maintained on OFAC's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac) on the Iran Sanctions page.
Excluded medical devices.
Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of medical devices on the List of Medical Devices Requiring Specific Authorization, which is maintained on OFAC's Web site (
www.treasury.gov/ofac
) on the Iran Sanctions page.
(iii) Excluded medicines. Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following medicines: non-NSAID analgesics, cholinergics, anticholinergics, opioids, narcotics, benzodiazapenes, and bioactive peptides.
Excluded medicines.
Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following medicines: non-NSAID analgesics, cholinergics, anticholinergics, opioids, narcotics, benzodiazapenes, and bioactive peptides.
(iv) Excluded persons. Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of medicine or medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
Excluded persons.
Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of medicine or medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(v) General license for related training. The provision by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of training necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of medicine and medical devices exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing such goods specifically for resale to any of the foregoing is authorized, provided that:
General license for related training.
The provision by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of training necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of medicine and medical devices exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing such goods specifically for resale to any of the foregoing is authorized, provided that:
(A) Unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532;
(B) Any technology released pursuant to this authorization is designated as EAR99; and
(C) Such training is not provided to any military, intelligence, or law enforcement entity, or any official or agent thereof.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(3) of § 560.530:
Consistent with section 906(a)(1) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7205), each year, OFAC will determine whether to revoke this general license. Unless revoked, the general license will remain in effect.
(4) General license for the exportation or reexportation of replacement parts for certain medical devices. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of replacement parts to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, for medical devices (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, and the conduct of related transactions, including the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, obtaining of insurance, arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532; and further provided that:
General license for the exportation or reexportation of replacement parts for certain medical devices.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of replacement parts to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, for medical devices (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, and the conduct of related transactions, including the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, obtaining of insurance, arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and entry into contracts (including executory contracts), are hereby authorized, provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532; and further provided that:
(A) Such replacement parts are designated as EAR99, or, in the case of replacement parts that are not subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States;
through 774
(EAR), would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States;
(B) Such replacement parts are exported or reexported to replace a broken or nonoperational component of a medical device that previously was exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, or the exportation or reexportation of such replacements parts is necessary and ordinarily incident to the proper preventative maintenance of such a medical device;
(C) The number of replacement parts that are exported or reexported and stored in Iran does not exceed the number of corresponding operational parts currently in use in relevant medical devices in Iran; and
(D) The broken or non-operational replacement parts that are being replaced are promptly exported, reexported, or otherwise provided to a non-Iranian entity located outside of Iran selected by the supplier of the replacement parts.
(ii) Excluded persons. Paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of replacement parts for medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
Excluded persons.
Paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of replacement parts for medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(4) of § 560.530:
Consistent with section 906(a)(1) of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7205), each year, OFAC will determine whether to revoke this general license. Unless revoked, the general license will remain in effect.
(5) General license for services and software necessary for the operation, maintenance, and repair of medical devices—(i) Operational software. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of software necessary for the installation and operation of medical devices or replacement parts exported or reexported pursuant to this section, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such software is designated as EAR99, or in the case of software that is not subject to the EAR, would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532.
General license for services and software necessary for the operation, maintenance, and repair of medical devices
—(i)
Operational software.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of software necessary for the installation and operation of medical devices or replacement parts exported or reexported pursuant to this section, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such software is designated as EAR99, or in the case of software that is not subject to the EAR, would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532.
(ii) Software updates. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of software intended for and limited to the provision of safety and service updates and the correction of system or operational errors in medical devices, replacement parts, and associated software that previously were exported, reexported, or provided pursuant to this part, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such software is designated as EAR99, or in the case of software that is not subject to the EAR, would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532. Such software updates may be exported or reexported only to the same end user to whom the original software was exported or reexported.
Software updates.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of software intended for and limited to the provision of safety and service updates and the correction of system or operational errors in medical devices, replacement parts, and associated software that previously were exported, reexported, or provided pursuant to this part, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such software is designated as EAR99, or in the case of software that is not subject to the EAR, would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532. Such software updates may be exported or reexported only to the same end user to whom the original software was exported or reexported.
(iii) Maintenance and Repair Services. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of services necessary to maintain and repair medical devices that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to this section, including inspection, testing, calibration, or repair services to ensure patient safety or effective operation, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such services do not substantively alter the functional capacities of the medical device as originally authorized for export or reexport, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532.
Maintenance and Repair Services.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, the exportation or reexportation by a covered person (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in a third country purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, of services necessary to maintain and repair medical devices that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to this section, including inspection, testing, calibration, or repair services to ensure patient safety or effective operation, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized, provided that such services do not substantively alter the functional capacities of the medical device as originally authorized for export or reexport, and further provided that, unless otherwise authorized by specific license, payment terms and financing for sales pursuant to this general license are limited to, and consistent with, those authorized by § 560.532.
(iv) Excluded persons. Paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section do not authorize the exportation or reexportation of software, software updates, or maintenance and repair services for medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
Excluded persons.
Paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section do not authorize the exportation or reexportation of software, software updates, or maintenance and repair services for medical devices to military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(6)(i) General license for the importation of certain U.S.-

origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, the importation into the United States of U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, including parts, components, or accessories thereof, that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to the authorizations in this section and that are broken, defective, or non-operational, or are connected to product recalls, adverse events, or other safety concerns, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized.
General license for the importation of certain U.S.-

origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, the importation into the United States of U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, including parts, components, or accessories thereof, that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to the authorizations in this section and that are broken, defective, or non-operational, or are connected to product recalls, adverse events, or other safety concerns, and the conduct of related transactions, are hereby authorized.
(ii) Excluded persons. Paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section does not authorize the importation into the United States of U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to the authorizations in this section as broken, defective, or non-operational, or in connection with product recalls, adverse events, or other safety concerns, from military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
Excluded persons.
Paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section does not authorize the importation into the United States of U.S.-origin agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that previously were exported or reexported pursuant to the authorizations in this section as broken, defective, or non-operational, or in connection with product recalls, adverse events, or other safety concerns, from military, intelligence, or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(b) General license for arrangement of exportation and reexportation of covered products that require a specific license. (1) With respect to sales authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the making of shipping arrangements, cargo inspections, obtaining of insurance, and arrangement of financing (consistent with § 560.532) for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section (as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, are authorized.
General license for arrangement of exportation and reexportation of covered products that require a specific license.
(1) With respect to sales authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the making of shipping arrangements, cargo inspections, obtaining of insurance, and arrangement of financing (consistent with § 560.532) for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section (as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, are authorized.
(2) Entry into executory contracts (including executory pro forma invoices, agreements in principle, or executory offers capable of acceptance such as bids in response to public tenders) for the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices that are not covered by the general licenses in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section (as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) to the Government of Iran, to any individual or entity in Iran, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to any of the foregoing, is authorized, provided that the performance of an executory contract is expressly made contingent upon the prior issuance of a one-year specific license described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(c) Instructions for obtaining one-year licenses. In order to obtain the one-year specific license described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the exporter must provide to OFAC:
Instructions for obtaining one-year licenses.
In order to obtain the one-year specific license described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the exporter must provide to OFAC:
(1) The applicant's full legal name (and, if the applicant is a business entity, the state or jurisdiction of incorporation and principal place of business);
(2) The applicant's mailing and street address (and, so that OFAC may reach a responsible point of contact, the applicant should also include the name of the individual(s) responsible for the application and related commercial transactions, along with their telephone and fax numbers and, if available, email addresses);
(3) The names, mailing addresses, and, if available, fax and telephone numbers and email addresses of all parties with an interest in the transaction. If the goods are being exported or reexported to a purchasing agent in Iran, the exporter must identify the agent's principals at the wholesale level for whom the purchase is being made. If the goods are being exported or reexported to an individual, the exporter must identify any organizations or entities with which the individual is affiliated that have an interest in the transaction;
(4) A description of all items to be exported or reexported pursuant to the requested one-year license, including a statement that the items are designated as EAR99, or would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States, and, if necessary, documentation sufficient to verify that the items to be exported or reexported are designated as EAR99, or would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States, and do not fall within any of the limitations contained in paragraph (d) of this section; and
(5) For items subject to the EAR, an Official Commodity Classification of EAR99 issued by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), certifying that the product is designated as EAR99, is required to be submitted to OFAC with the request for a license authorizing the exportation or reexportation of all fertilizers, live horses, western red cedar, or the excluded medical devices specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. See 15 CFR 748.3 for instructions for obtaining an Official Commodity Classification of EAR99 from BIS.
See
15 CFR 748.3 for instructions for obtaining an Official Commodity Classification of EAR99 from BIS.
(d) Limitations. (1) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section relieves the exporter from compliance with the export license application requirements of another Federal agency.
Limitations.
(1) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section relieves the exporter from compliance with the export license application requirements of another Federal agency.
(2) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device controlled on the United States Munitions List established under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778); controlled on any control list established under the Export Administration Act of 1979 or any successor statute (50 U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.); or used to facilitate the development or production of a chemical or biological weapon or weapon of mass destruction.
et seq.
); or used to facilitate the development or production of a chemical or biological weapon or weapon of mass destruction.
(3) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section affects prohibitions on the sale or supply of U.S. technology or software used to manufacture agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices, such as technology to design or produce biotechnological items or medical devices.
(4) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section affects U.S. nonproliferation export controls, including the end-user and end-use controls maintained under part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 744.
(5) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction or dealing with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked under, or who is designated or otherwise subject to any sanctions under, the terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, or narcotics trafficking programs administered by OFAC, 31 CFR parts 536, 544, 594, 595, 597, and 598, or with any foreign organization, group, or person subject to any restriction for its involvement in weapons of mass destruction or missile proliferation, or involving property blocked pursuant to this chapter or any other activity prohibited by this chapter not otherwise authorized in or pursuant to this part.
(6) Nothing in this section or in any general or specific license set forth in or issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device that is not designated as EAR99 or, in the case of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device not subject to the EAR, would not be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States.
(e) Covered items. For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined below.
Covered items.
For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined below.
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities are:
(i) In the case of products subject to the EAR, 15 CFR part 774, products that are designated as EAR99, and, in the case of products not subject to the EAR, products that would be designated as EAR99 under the EAR if they were located in the United States, in each case that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) In the case of products subject to the EAR, products that are designated as EAR99, and in the case of products not subject to the EAR, products that would be designated as EAR99 if they were located in the United States, in each case that are intended for ultimate use in Iran as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this part, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99 or, in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, that would be designated as EAR99, if it were located in the United States.
Medicine.
For the purposes of this part,
medicine
is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99 or, in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, that would be designated as EAR99, if it were located in the United States.
Note to § 560.530(
e
)(2):
The Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security provides a list on its Web site of medicines that are not designated as EAR99 and therefore not eligible for any general or specific license under this section.
(3) Medical device. For the purposes of this part, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99, or in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, that would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States.
Medical device.
For the purposes of this part, a
medical device
is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99, or in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, that would be designated as EAR99 if it were located in the United States.
(4) Covered person. For purposes of this part, a covered person is, with respect to the exportation or reexportation of items subject to the EAR, a U.S. person or a non-U.S. person, and for purposes of items not subject to the EAR, a U.S. person, wherever located, or an entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person and established or maintained outside the United States.
Covered person.
For purposes of this part, a
covered person
is, with respect to the exportation or reexportation of items subject to the EAR, a U.S. person or a non-U.S. person, and for purposes of items not subject to the EAR, a U.S. person, wherever located, or an entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person and established or maintained outside the United States.
(f) Excluded items. (1) For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities do not include furniture made from wood; clothing manufactured from plant or animal materials; agricultural equipment (whether hand tools or motorized equipment); pesticides, insecticides, or herbicides; or cosmetics (unless derived entirely from plant materials).
Excluded items.
(1) For the purposes of this part, agricultural commodities do not include furniture made from wood; clothing manufactured from plant or animal materials; agricultural equipment (whether hand tools or motorized equipment); pesticides, insecticides, or herbicides; or cosmetics (unless derived entirely from plant materials).
(2) For the purposes of this part, the term medicine does not include cosmetics.
medicine
does not include cosmetics.
(g) Excluded transactions by U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entities. Nothing in this section or in any general license set forth in or issued pursuant to this section authorizes any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
Excluded transactions
by U.S.
-
owned or
-
controlled foreign
entities.
Nothing in this section or in any general license set forth in or issued pursuant to this section authorizes any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012; 79 FR 18993, Apr. 7, 2014; 81 FR 94257, Dec. 23, 2016]]

§ 560.531   [Reserved]


§ 560.532   Payment for and financing of exports and reexports of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, and certain related software and services.

(a) General license for payment terms. The following payment terms are authorized for sales pursuant to § 560.530(a):
General license for payment terms.
The following payment terms are authorized for sales pursuant to § 560.530(a):
(1) Payment of cash in advance;
(2) Sales on open account, provided that the account receivable may not be transferred by the person extending the credit;
(3) Financing by third-country financial institutions that are not United States persons, entities owned or controlled by United States persons and established or maintained outside the United States, Iranian financial institutions, or the Government of Iran. Such financing may be confirmed or advised by U.S. financial institutions and by financial institutions that are entities owned or controlled by United States persons and established or maintained outside the United States; or
(4) Letter of credit issued by an Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to this part. Such letter of credit must be initially advised, confirmed, or otherwise dealt in by a third-country financial institution that is not a United States person, an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States, an Iranian financial institution, or the Government of Iran before it is advised, confirmed, or dealt in by a U.S. financial institution or a financial institution that is an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States.
(b) Specific licenses for alternate payment terms. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for payment terms and trade financing not authorized by the general license in paragraph (a) of this section for sales pursuant to § 560.530(a).
Specific licenses for alternate payment terms.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for payment terms and trade financing not authorized by the general license in paragraph (a) of this section for sales pursuant to § 560.530(a).
(c)(1) No debits to blocked accounts. Nothing in this section authorizes payment terms or trade financing involving a debit to an account blocked pursuant to this part.
No debits to blocked accounts.
Nothing in this section authorizes payment terms or trade financing involving a debit to an account blocked pursuant to this part.
(2) No debits or credits to Iranian accounts on the books of U.S. depository institutions. Nothing in this section authorizes payment terms or trade financing involving debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
No debits or credits to Iranian accounts on the books of U.S. depository institutions.
Nothing in this section authorizes payment terms or trade financing involving debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, no commercial exportation to Iran may be made with United States Government assistance, including United States foreign assistance, United States export assistance, and any United States credit or guarantees absent a Presidential waiver.
(e) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012; 81 FR 94259, Dec. 23, 2016]]

§ 560.533   Brokering sales of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices.

(a) General license for brokering sales by U.S. persons. United States persons are authorized to provide brokerage services on behalf of U.S. persons for the sale and exportation or reexportation by U.S. persons of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, provided that the sale and exportation or reexportation is authorized, as applicable, by a one-year specific license issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of § 560.530 or by one of the general licenses set forth in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of § 560.530.
General license for brokering sales by U.S. persons.
United States persons are authorized to provide brokerage services on behalf of U.S. persons for the sale and exportation or reexportation by U.S. persons of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, provided that the sale and exportation or reexportation is authorized, as applicable, by a one-year specific license issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of § 560.530 or by one of the general licenses set forth in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of § 560.530.
(b) Specific licensing for brokering sales by non-U.S. persons of agricultural commodities. Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to permit U.S. persons to provide brokerage services on behalf of non-U.S., non-Iranian persons for the sale and exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities to the Government of Iran, entities in Iran, or individuals in Iran. Specific licenses issued pursuant to this section will authorize the brokering only of sales that are to purchasers permitted pursuant to § 560.530.
Specific licensing for brokering sales by non-U.S. persons of agricultural commodities.
Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to permit U.S. persons to provide brokerage services on behalf of non-U.S., non-Iranian persons for the sale and exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities to the Government of Iran, entities in Iran, or individuals in Iran. Specific licenses issued pursuant to this section will authorize the brokering only of sales that are to purchasers permitted pursuant to § 560.530.
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 560.533:
Requests for specific licenses to provide brokerage services under this paragraph must include all of the information described in § 560.530(c).
(c) No debits or credits to Iranian accounts on the books of U.S. depository institutions. Payment for any brokerage fee earned pursuant to this section may not involve debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
No debits or credits to Iranian accounts on the books of U.S. depository institutions.
Payment for any brokerage fee earned pursuant to this section may not involve debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
(d) Recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Attention is drawn to the recordkeeping, retention, and reporting requirements of §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter.
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
Attention is drawn to the recordkeeping, retention, and reporting requirements of §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 18995, Apr. 7, 2014]]

§ 560.534   Winding down of transactions related to the importation into the United States of, and dealings in, certain foodstuffs and carpets.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, all transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on August 6, 2018:
(1) The importation into the United States, from Iran or a third country, of the following goods of Iranian origin:
(i) Foodstuffs intended for human consumption that are classified under chapters 2-23 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States; and
(ii) Carpets and other textile floor coverings and carpets used as wall hangings that are classified under chapter 57 or heading 9706.00.0060 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(2) United States persons, wherever located, engaging in transactions or dealings in or related to the categories of Iranian-origin goods described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided that the transaction or dealing does not involve or relate to goods, technology, or services for exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, other than services described in § 560.405 (“Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction authorized”) and transfers of funds described in § 560.516 (“Transfers of funds involving Iran”).
(b) This general license does not authorize the importation into the United States of goods that were under seizure or detention by the Department of Homeland Security, as of January 21, 2016, pursuant to Customs regulations or other applicable provisions of law, until any applicable penalties, charges, duties, or other conditions are satisfied. This general license does not authorize the importation into the United States of goods for which forfeiture proceedings have commenced or of goods that have been forfeited to the U.S. Government, other than through U.S. Customs and Border Protection disposition, including by selling at auction.
(c) Nothing in this section authorizes debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
[[83 FR 30337, June 28, 2018]]

§ 560.535   Winding down of transactions related to letters of credit and brokering services relating to certain foodstuffs and carpets.

(a) Wind down. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on August 6, 2018:
Wind down.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on August 6, 2018:
(1) Purchases from Iran or the Government of Iran or certain other blocked persons. United States depository institutions issuing letters of credit in favor of a beneficiary in Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 to pay for purchases from Iran or the Government of Iran of the categories of Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1), provided that such letters of credit are not advised, negotiated, paid, or confirmed by the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
Purchases from Iran or the Government of Iran or certain other blocked persons.
United States depository institutions issuing letters of credit in favor of a beneficiary in Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 to pay for purchases from Iran or the Government of Iran of the categories of Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1), provided that such letters of credit are not advised, negotiated, paid, or confirmed by the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(2) Transactions or dealings in Iranian-origin goods located in third countries, other than purchases from the Government of Iran or certain other blocked persons. United States depository institutions issuing, advising, negotiating, or confirming letters of credit to pay for transactions in or related to Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1) and located in a third-country, other than purchases from the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, provided that such letters of credit are not issued, advised, negotiated, paid, or confirmed by the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
Transactions or dealings in Iranian-origin goods located in third countries, other than purchases from the Government of Iran or certain other blocked persons.
United States depository institutions issuing, advising, negotiating, or confirming letters of credit to pay for transactions in or related to Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1) and located in a third-country, other than purchases from the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, provided that such letters of credit are not issued, advised, negotiated, paid, or confirmed by the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(3) Brokering. United States persons, wherever located, acting as brokers for the purchase or sale of the categories of Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1), provided that the goods are not for exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
Brokering.
United States persons, wherever located, acting as brokers for the purchase or sale of the categories of Iranian-origin goods described in § 560.534(a)(1), provided that the goods are not for exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(b) Iranian accounts. Nothing in this section authorizes debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
Iranian accounts.
Nothing in this section authorizes debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.
Note 1 to § 560.535:
See §§ 560.304 and 560.313 for information relating to individuals and entities that are included within the definition of the term Government of Iran and § 560.324 regarding entities included within the definition of the term Iranian financial institution. See § 560.516 for information relating to authorized transfers to Iran by U.S. depository institutions relating to licensed transactions.
Government of Iran
and § 560.324 regarding entities included within the definition of the term
Iranian financial institution.
See § 560.516 for information relating to authorized transfers to Iran by U.S. depository institutions relating to licensed transactions.
[[83 FR 30337, June 28, 2018]]

§ 560.536   Winding down of transactions related to the negotiation of contingent contracts for activities eligible for authorization under the Statement of Licensing Policy for Activities Related to the Export or Re-export to Iran of Commercial Passenger Aircraft and Related Parts and Services.

(a) All transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on August 6, 2018: U.S. persons engaging in all transactions ordinarily incident to the negotiation of contingent contracts for activities that were, at the time of the negotiation, eligible for authorization under the now-rescinded Statement of Licensing Policy for Activities Related to the Export or Re-export to Iran of Commercial Passenger Aircraft and Related Parts and Services (JCPOA SLP).
Statement of Licensing Policy for Activities Related to the Export or Re-export to Iran of Commercial Passenger Aircraft and Related Parts and Services
(JCPOA SLP).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
OFAC has posted an archived copy of the JCPOA SLP on its website (www.treasury.gov/ofac) for reference purposes.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
) for reference purposes.
(b) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, of any goods or technology to Iran, the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(c) For purposes of this section, the term “contingent contract” means a contract where the performance of the contract is made expressly contingent upon the issuance of a specific license by the Office of Foreign Assets Control authorizing the activities to be performed. For purposes of this section, the term “contingent contract” includes executory contracts, executory pro forma invoices, agreements in principle, executory offers capable of acceptance such as bids or proposals in response to public tenders, binding memoranda of understanding, or any other similar agreement.
[[83 FR 30337, June 28, 2018]]

§ 560.537   Winding down of transactions relating to foreign entities owned or controlled by a U.S. person.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on November 4, 2018: an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States (a “U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”) engaging in transactions, directly or indirectly, with the Government of Iran or any person subject to the jurisdiction of the Government of Iran that would otherwise be prohibited by § 560.215.
(b) All transactions and activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the wind down of the following activities are authorized through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on November 4, 2018: A United States person engaging in the following:
(1) Activities related to the establishment or alteration of operating policies and procedures of a United States entity or a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity, to the extent necessary to allow a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity to engage in transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) Activities to make available to those foreign entities that the U.S. person owns or controls any automated and globally integrated computer, accounting, email, telecommunications, or other business support system, platform, database, application, or server necessary to store, collect, transmit, generate, or otherwise process documents or information related to transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 1 to paragraph (
b
):
See § 560.208 for prohibitions on facilitation by United States persons, which remain in effect, with the exception of activities authorized in paragraph (b) of this section.
(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize transactions involving:
(1) The exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from the United States of any goods, technology, or services prohibited by § 560.204 or the reexportation from a third country of any goods, technology, or services prohibited by § 560.205;
(2) Any transfer of funds to, from, or through a United States depository institution or a United States-registered broker or dealer in securities;
(3) Any person on OFAC's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List), or any activity that would be prohibited by any part of 31 CFR chapter V other than part 560 if engaged in by a United States person or in the United States;
(4) Any person identified on the List of Foreign Sanctions Evaders pursuant to Executive Order 13608;
(5) Any activity involving any item (including information) subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), that is prohibited by, or otherwise requires a license under, part 744 of the EAR; or participation in any transaction involving a person whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to part 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce;
(6) Any military, paramilitary, intelligence, or law enforcement entity of the Government of Iran, or any official, agent, or affiliate thereof;
(7) Any activity that is sanctionable under Executive Order 12938 or 13382 (relating to Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, including ballistic missiles); Executive Order 13224 (relating to international terrorism); Executive Order 13572 or 13582 (relating to Syria); Executive Order 13611 (relating to Yemen); or Executive Order 13553 or 13606, or section 2 or 3 of Executive Order 13628 (relating to Iran's commission of human rights abuses against its citizens); or
(8) Any nuclear activity involving Iran that is subject to the procurement channel established pursuant to paragraph 16 of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 (2015) and Section 6 of Annex IV to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action of July 14, 2015 and that has not been approved through that procurement channel process.
(d)(1) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the term “automated” refers to a computer, accounting, email, telecommunications, or other business support system, platform, database, application, or server that operates passively and without human intervention to facilitate the flow of data between and among the United States person and its owned or controlled foreign entities.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the term “globally integrated” refers to a computer, accounting, email, telecommunications, or other business support system, platform, database, application, or server that is available to, and in general use by, the United States person's global organization, including the United States person and its owned or controlled foreign entities.
(3) Paragraph (b)(2) of this section does not authorize the use of any automated computer, accounting, email, telecommunications, or other business support system, platform, database, application, or server in connection with any transfer of funds to, from, or through a United States depository institution or a United States-registered broker or dealer in securities.
[[83 FR 30338, June 28, 2018]]

§ 560.538   Authorized transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to publishing.

(a) To the extent that such activities are not exempt from this part, and subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of manuscripts, books, journals, and newspapers in paper or electronic format (collectively, “written publications”). This section does not apply if the parties to the transactions described in this paragraph include the Government of Iran. For the purposes of this section, the term “Government of Iran” includes the state and the Government of Iran, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, which includes the Central Bank of Iran, and any person acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of any of the foregoing with respect to the transactions described in this paragraph. For the purposes of this section, the term “Government of Iran” does not include any academic and research institutions and their personnel. Pursuant to this section, the following activities are authorized, provided that U.S. persons ensure that they are not engaging, without separate authorization, in the activities identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section:
(1) Commissioning and making advance payments for identifiable written publications not yet in existence, to the extent consistent with industry practice;
(2) Collaborating on the creation and enhancement of written publications;
(3)(i) Augmenting written publications through the addition of items such as photographs, artwork, translation, explanatory text, and, for a written publication in electronic format, the addition of embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching the written publication; and
(ii) Exporting embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching a written publication in electronic format, provided that the software is designated as “EAR99” under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (the “EAR”), or is not subject to the EAR;
(4) Substantive editing of written publications;
(5) Payment of royalties for written publications;
(6) Creating or undertaking a marketing campaign to promote a written publication; and
(7) Other transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in this paragraph (a).
(b) This section does not authorize transactions involving the provision of goods or services not necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in paragraph (a) of this section. For example, this section does not authorize U.S. persons:
(1) To provide or receive individualized or customized services (including, but not limited to, accounting, legal, design, or consulting services), other than those necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications, even though such individualized or customized services are delivered through the use of information or informational materials;
(2) To create or undertake for any person a marketing campaign with respect to any service or product other than a written publication, or to create or undertake a marketing campaign of any kind for the benefit of the Government of Iran;
(3) To engage in the exportation or importation of goods to or from Iran other than the exportation of embedded software described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section; or
(4) To operate a publishing house, sales outlet, or other office in Iran.
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 560.538:
The importation from Iran and the exportation to Iran of information or informational materials, as defined in § 560.315, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions and regulations of this part. See § 560.210(c).
See
§ 560.210(c).
(c) This section does not authorize U.S. persons to engage the services of publishing houses or translators in Iran unless such activity is primarily for the dissemination of written publications in Iran.
(d) This section does not authorize:
(1) The exportation from or importation into the United States of services for the development, production, or design of software;
(2) Transactions for the development, production, design, or marketing of technology specifically controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 (the “ITAR”), the EAR, or the Department of Energy Regulations set forth at 10 CFR part 810;
(3) The exportation of information or technology subject to the authorization requirements of 10 CFR part 810, or Restricted Data as defined in section 11 y. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or of other information, data, or technology the release of which is controlled under the Atomic Energy Act and regulations therein;
(4) The exportation of any item (including information) subject to the EAR where a U.S. person knows or has reason to know that the item will be used, directly or indirectly, with respect to certain nuclear, missile, chemical, or biological weapons or nuclear-maritime end-uses as set forth in part 744 of the EAR. In addition, U.S. persons are precluded from exporting any item subject to the EAR to certain restricted end-users, as set forth in part 744 of the EAR, as well as certain persons whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to parts 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce; or
(5) The exportation of information subject to licensing requirements under the ITAR or exchanges of information that are subject to regulation by other government agencies.

§ 560.539   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize any transactions or activities involving the Iranian Red Crescent Society.
[[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 560.540   Certain services, software, and hardware incident to communications.

(a) To the extent that such transactions are not exempt from the prohibitions of this part, and subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the following transactions are authorized:
(1) Services. The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of services incident to the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part.
Services.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of services incident to the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part.
(2) Software—(i) Software subject to or excluded from the EAR. The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), pursuant to 15 CFR 734.3(a), that is incident to, or enables services incident to, the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part, provided that such software is designated EAR99, excluded from the EAR because it is described under 15 CFR 734.3(b)(3), or classified by the U.S. Department of Commerce on the Commerce Control List, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1 (CCL), under export control classification number (ECCN) 5D992.c.
Software
—(i)
Software subject to or excluded from the EAR.
The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), pursuant to 15 CFR 734.3(a), that is incident to, or enables services incident to, the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part, provided that such software is designated EAR99, excluded from the EAR because it is described under 15 CFR 734.3(b)(3), or classified by the U.S. Department of Commerce on the Commerce Control List, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1 (CCL), under export control classification number (ECCN) 5D992.c.
(ii) Software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States. The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States, that is incident to, or enables services incident to, the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part, provided that such software would be designated EAR99 if it were located in the United States or would meet the criteria for classification under ECCN 5D992.c if it were subject to the EAR.
Software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States.
The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States, that is incident to, or enables services incident to, the exchange of communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, blogging, social media platforms, collaboration platforms, video conferencing, e-gaming, e-learning platforms, automated translation, web maps, and user authentication services, as well as cloud-based services in support of the foregoing or of any other transaction authorized or exempt under this part, provided that such software would be designated EAR99 if it were located in the United States or would meet the criteria for classification under ECCN 5D992.c if it were subject to the EAR.
(3) Additional software, hardware, and related services. To the extent not authorized by paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran of certain software and hardware incident to communications, as well as related services, as follows:
Additional software, hardware, and related services.
To the extent not authorized by paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran of certain software and hardware incident to communications, as well as related services, as follows:
(i) In the case of hardware and software subject to the EAR, the items specified in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, which is maintained on OFAC's website (https://ofac.treasury.gov) on the Iran Sanctions page;
https://ofac.treasury.gov
) on the Iran Sanctions page;
(ii) In the case of hardware and software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States that is exported, reexported, or provided, directly or indirectly, by a U.S. person, wherever located, hardware and software that is of a type described in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, provided that the item would be designated EAR99 if it were located in the United States or would meet the criteria for classification under the relevant ECCN specified in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540” if it were subject to the EAR; and
(iii) In the case of software not subject to the EAR because it is described in 15 CFR 734.3(b)(3) that is exported, reexported, or provided, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, software that is of a type described in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”.
Note 1 to paragraphs (
a
)(2) and (3):
The authorizations in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section include the exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to Iran of authorized hardware and software by an individual leaving the United States for Iran.
(4) Internet connectivity services and telecommunications capacity. The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of non-commercial-grade internet connectivity services, to include cloud-based services, and the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) incident to communications.
Internet connectivity services and telecommunications capacity.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of non-commercial-grade internet connectivity services, to include cloud-based services, and the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) incident to communications.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
)(4):
See § 560.508 for authorizations relating to transactions with respect to the receipt and transmission of telecommunications involving Iran.
See
§ 560.508 for authorizations relating to transactions with respect to the receipt and transmission of telecommunications involving Iran.
(5) Importation into the United States or a third country of hardware and software previously exported to Iran. The importation into the United States or a third country of hardware and software authorized for exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran under paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, provided that the hardware or software was previously exported, reexported, or provided to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to this part.
Importation into the United States or a third country of hardware and software previously exported to Iran.
The importation into the United States or a third country of hardware and software authorized for exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran under paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, provided that the hardware or software was previously exported, reexported, or provided to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to this part.
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
)(5):
See § 560.306 for definitions of the terms goods of Iranian origin and Iranian-origin goods, which do not include goods that have been previously exported or reexported to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to this part and which have subsequently been exported from and are located outside of Iran.
See
§ 560.306 for definitions of the terms
goods of Iranian origin
and
Iranian-origin goods,
which do not include goods that have been previously exported or reexported to Iran under an authorization issued pursuant to this part and which have subsequently been exported from and are located outside of Iran.
(6) Publicly available, no cost services and software to the Government of Iran—(i) Services. The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to the Government of Iran, as defined in § 560.304, of services described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or categories (6) through (11) of the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, provided that such services are publicly available at no cost to the user.
Publicly available, no cost services and software to the Government of Iran
—(i)
Services.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to the Government of Iran, as defined in § 560.304, of services described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or categories (6) through (11) of the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, provided that such services are publicly available at no cost to the user.
(ii) Software. The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to the Government of Iran of software described in paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section or categories (6) through (11) of the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, provided that such software is publicly available at no cost to the user.
Software.
The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, to the Government of Iran of software described in paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section or categories (6) through (11) of the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, provided that such software is publicly available at no cost to the user.
(7) Services conducted outside Iran to install, repair, or replace. The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of services conducted outside Iran to install, repair, or replace hardware or software authorized for exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section.
Services conducted outside Iran to install, repair, or replace.
The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, to Iran of services conducted outside Iran to install, repair, or replace hardware or software authorized for exportation, reexportation, or provision to Iran pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
In paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the term “publicly available” refers generally to software that is widely available to the public. Paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section refers to software that is described in 15 CFR 734.3(b)(3), which defines “publicly available” software for purposes of the EAR. The scope of the term “publicly available” in paragraph (a)(6) of this section thus differs from the scope of the Department of Commerce's regulation at 15 CFR 734.3(b)(3) as referenced in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section.
(b) This section does not authorize:
(1) The exportation, reexportation, or provision, directly or indirectly, of the services, software, or hardware specified in paragraph (a) of this section with knowledge or reason to know that such services, software, or hardware are intended for the Government of Iran, except for services or software specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, or for any person blocked pursuant to this part other than the Government of Iran.
(2) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of commercial-grade internet connectivity services or telecommunications transmission facilities (such as dedicated satellite links or dedicated lines that include quality of service guarantees).
(3) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of web-hosting services that are for websites of commercial entities located in Iran or of domain name registration services for or on behalf of the Government of Iran, as defined in § 560.304, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
(4) Any transaction by a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
(5) Any action or activity involving any item (including information) subject to the EAR that is prohibited by, or otherwise requires a license under, part 744 of the EAR or participation in any transaction involving a person whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to part 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce.
(c) Transfers of funds from Iran or for or on behalf of a person in Iran in furtherance of an underlying transaction authorized by paragraph (a) of this section may be processed by U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities provided they are consistent with § 560.516.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation, reexportation, or provision of services, software, or hardware incident to communications not specified in paragraph (a) of this section, including in the “List of Services, Software, and Hardware Incident to Communications under 31 CFR 560.540”, or other activities to support internet freedom in Iran, including development and hosting of anti-surveillance software by Iranian developers.
[[89 FR 43313, May 17, 2024]]

§ 560.541   Third-country diplomatic and consular funds transfers.

United States depository institutions and United States registered brokers or dealers in securities are authorized to process funds transfers, in a manner consistent with § 560.516, for the operating expenses or other official business of third-country diplomatic or consular missions in Iran.

§ 560.542   Importation and exportation of human remains for burial, cremation, or interment authorized.

(a) The importation into the United States of human remains for burial, cremation, or interment, as well as of coffins or other receptacles containing such human remains, from Iran is authorized.
(b) The importation into the United States for non-commercial purposes of finished tombstones or grave markers of Iranian origin is authorized.
(c) The direct or indirect exportation from the United States, or by a United States person, wherever located, of human remains for burial, cremation, or interment, as well as of coffins or other receptacles containing such human remains, to Iran is authorized.
(d) This section does not authorize the importation into the United States of Iranian-origin cultural property or other items of archaeological, historical, or rare scientific importance.

§ 560.543   Sale of certain real and personal property in Iran and transfer of related funds to the United States.

(a) Individuals who are U.S. persons are authorized to engage in transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the sale of real and personal property in Iran and to transfer the proceeds to the United States, provided that such real and personal property was acquired before the individual became a U.S. person or inherited from persons in Iran. Authorized transactions include engaging the services of any persons in Iran necessary for the sale, such as an attorney, funds agent, or broker.
(b) This section does not authorize:
(1) The wind-down of commercial enterprises in Iran;
(2) The re-investment in Iran of the proceeds from the real or personal property sales authorized in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(3) The exportation or reexportation to Iran of any goods (including software) or technology.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 83 FR 55271, Nov. 5, 2018]]

§ 560.544   Certain educational activities by U.S. persons in third countries authorized.

(a) Subject to the restriction set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, accredited undergraduate degree-granting academic institutions organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States (“U.S. undergraduate institutions”) with undergraduate educational programs or undergraduate exchange programs in countries other than the United States or Iran are authorized to engage in the following activities with respect to such programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business:
(1) Recruit, hire, and employ faculty and staff who are ordinarily resident in Iran;
(2) Recruit, enroll, and educate students who are ordinarily resident in Iran;
(3) Enter into and perform exchange agreements with Iranian universities;
(4) Provide scholarships to students ordinarily resident in Iran; and
(5) Recruit individuals ordinarily resident in Iran, such as scholars, artists, performers, speakers, alumni, and students, to participate in events, such as conferences, lectures, film series, research workshops, exhibitions, theatrical and musical performances, and continuing education courses. U.S. undergraduate institutions are authorized to provide compensation, including honoraria, to such individuals.
(b) Subject to the restriction set forth in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Paragraph (a)(2) of this section authorizes the release of technology or software to students ordinarily resident in Iran, provided that all of the following requirements are met:
(i) Such release is ordinarily incident and necessary to the undergraduate educational program or the undergraduate exchange program at the U.S. undergraduate institution in which the student is enrolled;
(ii) The technology or software being released is designated as EAR99 under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (the “EAR”), or constitutes Educational Information not subject to the EAR, as set forth in 15 CFR 734.9;
(iii) The release does not otherwise require a license from the Department of Commerce; and
(iv) The student to whom the release is made is not enrolled in the undergraduate educational program, or participating in the undergraduate exchange program, as an agent, employee, or contractor of the Government of Iran or a business entity or other organization in Iran.
(2) This section authorizes enrollment in undergraduate courses in math, sciences, and engineering that are required or electives for undergraduate programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, or business provided the following conditions are met:
(i) The undergraduate courses are required for the completion of the humanities, social sciences, law, or business program and are for “introductory,” non-major, freshman or sophomore equivalent courses only; or
(ii) The undergraduate courses are required for the completion of the humanities, social sciences, law, or business program and are math-related accounting or economics classes at any undergraduate level, not to include courses allowing for any post-graduate work.
(c) This section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation to Iran or the Government of Iran of any goods (including software) or technology, including any release of technology or software described in § 560.418 of this part, except as expressly authorized in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing accredited graduate degree-granting academic institutions organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States with graduate educational programs or graduate exchange programs in third countries to recruit, hire, and employ faculty and staff who are ordinarily resident in Iran for such third-country graduate educational programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business or graduate exchange programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business, and to recruit, enroll, and educate students who are ordinarily resident in Iran in such third-country graduate educational programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business or graduate exchange programs in the humanities, social sciences, law, and business.

§ 560.545   Democracy and human rights in Iran and academic and cultural exchange programs.

(a) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental organizations and other entities organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States to engage in the following projects or activities in or related to Iran that are designed to directly benefit the Iranian people:
(1) Projects, including conferences and training, to support human rights, democratic freedoms, and democratic institutions and to meet basic human needs; and
(2) The establishment or support of independent civic organizations.
(b) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize U.S. persons to engage in the following projects or activities in or related to Iran that are designed to directly benefit the Iranian people:
(1) The provision of donated professional medical services;
(2) Certain targeted educational, cultural, and sports exchange programs, provided such programs are not in furtherance of Iranian military, industrial, or technological infrastructure or potential;
(3) Environmental projects, provided such projects are not in furtherance of Iranian military or industrial infrastructure or potential; and
(4) Projects, including exchanges and technical training, to improve the flow of public information through independent media available to the Iranian public.
(c) Specific licenses issued pursuant to this section generally will not authorize the exportation or reexportation to Iran of goods (including software) and technology listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1 (CCL).
Note 1 to § 560.545:
The CCL includes items such as many laptop computers, personal computers, cell phones, personal digital assistants and other wireless handheld devices/blackberries, and other similar items. The exportation or reexportation of these items to Iran, even on a temporary basis, is prohibited, unless specifically authorized in a license issued pursuant to this part in a manner consistent with the Iran-Iraq Arms Nonproliferation Act of 1992 and other relevant law.

§ 560.546   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 560.546:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 560.213 of this part concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 560.213 of this part concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 560.547   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
Note to § 560.547:
See § 560.517, which authorizes U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities to provide and be compensated for services with respect to the limited maintenance of Iranian accounts other than blocked accounts, including the payment of interest and dividends and the debiting of service charges.
See
§ 560.517, which authorizes U.S. depository institutions and U.S. registered brokers or dealers in securities to provide and be compensated for services with respect to the limited maintenance of Iranian accounts other than blocked accounts, including the payment of interest and dividends and the debiting of service charges.

§ 560.548   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 560.213, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 560.211, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211.

§ 560.549   Policy governing Iranian news organizations' offices in the United States.

Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing transactions necessary for the establishment and operation of news bureaus in the United States by Iranian organizations whose primary purpose is the gathering and dissemination of news to the general public.

§ 560.550   Certain noncommercial, personal remittances to or from Iran authorized.

(a) In cases in which the transfer involves a noncommercial, personal remittance, the transfer of funds to or from Iran or for or on behalf of an individual ordinarily resident in Iran, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, is authorized, provided that the transfer is processed by a United States depository institution or a United States registered broker or dealer in securities and not by any other U.S. person; does not involve debiting or crediting an Iranian account; and is not by, to, or through the Government of Iran, as defined in § 560.304.
(b) Noncommercial, personal remittances do not include charitable donations to or for the benefit of an entity or funds transfers for use in supporting or operating a business, including a family-owned enterprise.
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 560.550:
Charitable donations of funds to or for the benefit of an entity in Iran require a specific license.
(c) The transferring institutions identified in paragraph (a) of this section may rely on the originator of a funds transfer with regard to compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, provided that the transferring institution does not know or have reason to know that the funds transfer is not in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) An individual who is a U.S. person is authorized to carry funds as a noncommercial, personal remittance, as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, to an individual in Iran or ordinarily resident in Iran, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, provided that the individual who is a U.S. person is carrying the funds on his or her behalf, but not on behalf of another person.

§ 560.551   Student loan payments from persons in Iran authorized.

United States depository institutions and private loan companies are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary to collect, accept, and process student loan payments from persons in Iran or ordinarily resident in Iran.

§ 560.552   Transactions related to U.S. citizens residing in Iran.

(a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in transactions in Iran ordinarily incident to the routine and necessary maintenance and other personal living expenses of U.S. citizens who reside on a permanent basis in Iran.
(b) Nothing in this section authorizes transactions related to employment by U.S. persons in Iran.

§ 560.553   Payments from funds originating outside the United States authorized.

Effective October 22, 2012, receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) to or on behalf of the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that:
(a) Prior to receiving payment for legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) rendered to the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, the U.S. person that is an attorney, law firm, or legal services organization provides to the Office of Foreign Assets Control a copy of a letter of engagement or a letter of intent to engage specifying the services to be performed and signed by the individual to whom such services are to be provided or, where services are to be provided to an entity, by a legal representative of the entity. The copy of a letter of engagement or a letter of intent to engage, accompanied by correspondence referencing this paragraph (a), is to be mailed to: Licensing Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Annex, Washington, DC 20220;
(b) The funds received by U.S. persons as payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) must not originate from:
(1) A source within the United States;
(2) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(3) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order; and
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 560.553:
This paragraph authorizes the blocked person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) are to be provided to make payments for authorized legal services using funds originating outside the United States that were not previously blocked. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order holds an interest.
(c) Reports. (1) U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to this section in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) must submit quarterly reports providing information on the funds received, no later than 30 days following the end of the calendar quarter during which the payments were received. Such reports shall specify:
Reports.
(1) U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to this section in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) must submit quarterly reports providing information on the funds received, no later than 30 days following the end of the calendar quarter during which the payments were received. Such reports shall specify:
(i) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(ii) If applicable:
(A) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(B) A general description of the services provided; and
(C) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services;
(2) In the event that no transactions occur or no funds are received during the reporting period, a statement is to be filed to that effect; and
(3) The reports, which must reference this section, are to be mailed to: Licensing Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Annex, Washington, DC 20220.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction by an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
Note 1 to § 560.553:
U.S. persons who receive payments in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a) do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. Additionally, U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 560.525(a).
Note 2 to § 560.553:
Any payment authorized in or pursuant to this section that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference this § 560.553 to avoid the blocking of the transfer.
Note 3 to § 560.553:
Nothing in this section authorizes the transfer of any blocked property, the debiting of any blocked account, the entry of any judgment or order that effects a transfer of blocked property, or the execution of any judgment against property blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75849, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.554   Importation and exportation of services related to conferences in the United States or third countries authorized.

(a) Subject to the restrictions in paragraph (c) of this section, the importation of Iranian-origin services into the United States or other dealing in such services and the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of services from the United States or by a U.S. person are authorized where such services are performed or provided in the United States by or for a person who is ordinarily resident in Iran, other than the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, for the purpose of, or which directly relate to, participating in a public conference, performance, exhibition or similar event, and such services are consistent with that purpose.
(b) To the extent not otherwise exempt from the prohibitions of this part and subject to the restrictions in paragraph (c) of this section, the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of services directly related to the sponsorship by a U.S. person of a public conference or other similar public event in a third country that is attended by persons who are ordinarily resident in Iran, other than the Government of Iran, an Iranian financial institution, or any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211, is authorized, provided that attendance and participation at the conference or other similar public event is open for the public and that the conference or other similar event is not tailored in whole or in part to or for Iran or persons who are ordinarily resident in Iran.
(c) This section does not authorize:
(1) Any release of technology or software to a person who is ordinarily resident in Iran; and
(2) The exportation, reexportation, sale or supply of services, or the importation of Iranian-origin services or other dealing in such services, related to the petroleum or petrochemical industries, energy development, crude oil or natural gas, pipelines, or the oil services industry.

§ 560.555   Winding-down of transactions prohibited by § 560.215.

(a) Except as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, all transactions ordinarily incident and necessary to the winding-down of transactions prohibited by § 560.215 are authorized from October 9, 2012, through March 8, 2013, provided that those ordinarily incident and necessary transactions do not involve a U.S. person or occur in the United States.
(b) Nothing in this section authorizes any transactions prohibited by § 560.205.
(c) Transactions involving Iranian financial institutions are authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section only if the property and interests in property of the Iranian financial institution are blocked solely pursuant to this part.
[[77 FR 75850, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.556   Foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons authorized to engage in transactions that are authorized by general license if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.

(a) Except as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, an entity owned or controlled by a United States person and established or maintained outside the United States (a “U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity”) is authorized to engage in a transaction otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 that would be authorized by a general license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States, provided the U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity is authorized to engage in the transaction only to the same extent as the U.S. person is authorized to engage in the transaction and subject to all the conditions and requirements set forth in the general license for the U.S. person.
(b) This section does not authorize any transaction by a U.S.-owned or -controlled foreign entity otherwise prohibited by § 560.215 if the transaction would be prohibited by any other part of this chapter V if engaged in by a U.S. person or in the United States.
[[77 FR 75850, Dec. 26, 2012]]

§ 560.557   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 560.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

§§ 560.602-560.603   [Reserved]


Subpart G—Penalties


§ 560.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (“IEEPA”), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(4) As set forth in section 218 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on a United States person if an entity owned or controlled by the United States person and established or maintained outside the United States violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of the prohibition set forth in § 560.215 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition. The penalties set forth in this paragraph shall not apply with respect to a transaction described in § 560.215 by an entity owned or controlled by the United States person and established or maintained outside the United States if the United States person divests or terminates its business with the entity not later than February 6, 2013, such that the U.S. person no longer owns or controls the entity, as defined in § 560.215(b)(1).
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned, or both.
(d) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 2332d, as added by Public Law 104-132, section 321, which provides that, except as provided in regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, a U.S. person, knowing or having reasonable cause to know that a country is designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism, engages in a financial transaction with the government of that country, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.
(e) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of Customs laws and other applicable laws.
[[77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 75850, Dec. 26, 2012; 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19887, Apr. 9, 2020; 85 FR 61825, Oct. 1, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7372, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 560.702   Detention of shipments.

Import shipments into the United States of Iranian-origin goods in violation of § 560.201 and export shipments from the United States of goods destined for Iran in violation of § 560.204 shall be detained. No such import, export, or reexport will be permitted to proceed, except as specifically authorized by or on behalf of the Secretary of the Treasury. Unless licensed, such shipments are subject to penalty or seizure and forfeiture action, under the customs laws or other applicable provisions of law, depending on the circumstances.

§ 560.703   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Right to
respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for
response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of
time for
response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Extensions of
time for
response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 560.704   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 560.705   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 560.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 560.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 12613 of October 29, 1987 (3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 256), Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995 (3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332), Executive Order 12959 of May 6, 1995 (3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 356), Executive Order 13059 of August 19, 1997 (3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 217), Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012 (77 FR 6659, February 8, 2012), and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

§ 560.803   [Reserved]


Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 560.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 560 [Reserved]


Appendix B to Part 560—Bulk Agricultural Commodities

Notes:
1. Appendix B sets forth those bulk agricultural commodities eligible for sale pursuant to the licensing procedures and the general license in § 560.530.
2. Commodities are identified by their classification numbers in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (see 19 U.S.C. 1202) (“HTS”).
HTS No.
Commodity
1001.10
Durum Wheat.
1001.90
Other Wheat and Meslin, including seed, Red Spring Wheat, White Winter Wheat, “Canadian” Western Red Winter Wheat, Soft White Spring Wheat, and Wheat not elsewhere specified.
1101.00
Wheat or Meslin Flour.
1006.10
Rice in the husk (paddy or rough).
1006.20
Husked (brown) Rice.
1006.30
Semi-milled or wholly milled Rice, whether or not polished or glazed.
1006.40
Broken Rice.
1102.30
Rice Flour.
1103.14
Rice Groats, Meal and Pellets.
1002.00
Rye.
1003.00
Barley.
1004.00
Oats.
1007.00
Grain Sorghum.
1005.00
Corn (Maize).
0713.31
Dried Beans including Vigna mungo (L.), Hepper, and Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek.
0713.32
Small red (adzuki) beans.
0713.33
Kidney beans, including white pea beans.
0713.39
Beans, other.
0713.50
Broad beans and horse beans.
0713.10
Dried Peas (Pisum sativum).
0713.20
Chickpeas (garbanzos).
0713.40
Lentils.
0713.90
Dried leguminous vegetables, shelled, not elsewhere specified.
1201.00
Soybeans, whether or not broken.
2304.00
Soybean cake, meal and pellets.
1507.10
Soybean oil, crude.
1507.90
Soybean oil, other.
1514.10
Rapeseed, colza and mustard oil, crude.
1514.90
Rapeseed, colza and mustard oil, other.
1515.21
Corn (Maize) oil, crude.
1515.29
Corn (Maize) oil, other.
1512.21
Cottonseed oil, crude.
1512.29
Cottonseed oil, other.
1517.90
Cottonseed oil, hydrogenated.
1508.10
Peanut (ground-nut) oil, crude.
1508.90
Peanut (ground-nut) oil, other.
1515.50
Sesame oil.
1512.11
Sunflower-seed oil, crude.
1512.19
Sunflower-seed oil, other.
1212.91
Sugar Beets, fresh, chilled, frozen or dried.
1212.92
Sugar Cane, fresh, chilled, frozen or dried.
1701.11
Cane Sugar, raw, solid form.
1701.12
Beet Sugar, raw, solid form.
1701.91
Cane or Beet Sugar, solid form, containing added coloring or flavoring.
1701.99
Cane or Beet Sugar, other, not elsewhere specified.

Appendix C to Part 560 [Reserved]


PART 561—IRANIAN FINANCIAL SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 22 U.S.C. 8501-8551, 8701-8795; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12957, 60 FR 14615, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332; E.O. 13553, 75 FR 60567, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 253; E.O. 13599, 77 FR 6659, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 215; E.O. 13846, 83 FR 38939, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 854; E.O. 13871, 84 FR 20761, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 309.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; 22 U.S.C. 8501-8551, 8701-8795; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12957, 60 FR 14615, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332; E.O. 13553, 75 FR 60567, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 253; E.O. 13599, 77 FR 6659, 3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 215; E.O. 13846, 83 FR 38939, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 854; E.O. 13871, 84 FR 20761, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 309.
[Source:77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 561.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part or the conditions imposed pursuant to this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 561.201   CISADA-based sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.

Upon a finding by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution knowingly engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section, attempts or conspires to facilitate or participate in one or more of such activities, or is owned or controlled by a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds knowingly engages in one or more of such activities, consistent with the Secretary of the Treasury's authorities under the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551) (“CISADA”), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158), either the Secretary of the Treasury will impose one or more strict conditions, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution, or, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury will prohibit a U.S. financial institution from opening or maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution. The name of the foreign financial institution and the relevant prohibition or strict condition(s) will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac) and published in the Federal Register.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
) and published in the
Federal Register.
(a) A foreign financial institution engages in an activity described in this paragraph if, in any location or currency, the foreign financial institution knowingly:
(1) Facilitates the efforts of the Government of Iran (including efforts of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates)—
(i) To acquire or develop weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction; or
(ii) To provide support for organizations designated as foreign terrorist organizations under section 219(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189(a)) or support for acts of international terrorism, as defined in § 561.312 of this part;
(2) Facilitates the activities of—
(i) A person subject to financial sanctions pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1737, 1747, 1803, or 1929, or any other resolution adopted by the Security Council that imposes sanctions with respect to Iran; or
(ii) A person acting on behalf of or at the direction of, or owned or controlled by, a person described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
Note to paragraph (
a
)(2) of § 561.201:
Persons subject to financial sanctions pursuant to the United Nations Security Council resolutions listed in § 561.201(a)(2) include individuals and entities listed in the Annex to UNSC Resolution 1737, Annex I of UNSC Resolution 1747, Annexes I and III of UNSC Resolution 1803, and Annexes I, II, and III of UNSC Resolution 1929; and individuals and entities designated by the Security Council or by the Committee established pursuant to UNSC Resolution 1737 (the “Committee”) as being engaged in, directly associated with or providing support for Iran's proliferation sensitive nuclear activities, or the development of nuclear weapon delivery systems; and individuals and entities acting on behalf of or at the direction of those so listed or designated; and entities owned or controlled by those so listed or designated; and individuals and entities determined by the Security Council or the Committee to have assisted listed or designated individuals or entities in evading sanctions of, or in violating the provisions of, UNSC Resolutions 1737, 1747, 1803, or 1929.
(3) Engages in money laundering to carry out an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section;
(4) Facilitates efforts by the Central Bank of Iran or any other Iranian financial institution to carry out an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section;
(5) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions or provides significant financial services for—
(i) Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (“IEEPA”); or
et seq.
) (“IEEPA”); or
(ii) A person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to parts 544 or 594 of this chapter in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction or Iran's support for international terrorism; or
Note to paragraph (
a
)(5) of § 561.201:
The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Agents or affiliates of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (“IRGC”) whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 544, will have the tags “[NPWMD][IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to parts 544 or 594 of this chapter in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction or Iran's support for international terrorism also are identified by the tag “[IFSR]” in addition to the tag referencing part 544 or part 594, as the case may be, located at the end of their entries on the SDN List (e.g., [NPWMD][IFSR] or [SDGT][IFSR]). In addition, see § 561.405 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Agents or affiliates of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (“IRGC”) whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 544, will have the tags “[NPWMD][IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to parts 544 or 594 of this chapter in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction or Iran's support for international terrorism also are identified by the tag “[IFSR]” in addition to the tag referencing part 544 or part 594, as the case may be, located at the end of their entries on the SDN List (e.g., [NPWMD][IFSR] or [SDGT][IFSR]). In addition, see § 561.405 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked.
(6) Facilitates, or participates or assists in, an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, including by acting on behalf of, at the direction of, or as an intermediary for, or otherwise assisting, another person with respect to the activity.
(b) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose one or more strict conditions on the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section. Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to this paragraph. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(2) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(3) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(4) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(5) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 561.201:
The name of the foreign financial institution, together with the actual strict condition or conditions to be imposed, will be added to the CAPTA List on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register.
(c) If the Secretary of the Treasury does not impose one or more strict conditions, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary, consistent with CISADA, will prohibit the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution. Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening or maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to this paragraph.
Note to paragraph (
c
) of § 561.201:
The names of foreign financial institutions for which the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited will be listed on the CAPTA List on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register.
Note to § 561.201:
The CAPTA List will specify whether U.S. financial institutions are required to:
(1) Impose strict conditions on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Prohibit the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Prohibit the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to § 561.203(a)(1) and (a)(2)(i); or
(4) Prohibit the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account and impose strict conditions on maintaining a preexisting correspondent account or a payable-through account for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to § 561.203(a)(1) and (a)(2)(ii). Where applicable, the CAPTA List also will specify the strict condition or conditions to be imposed on the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
[[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 66919, Nov. 8, 2012; 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019]]

§ 561.202   Prohibitions on persons owned or controlled by U.S. financial institutions.

Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, any person that is owned or controlled by a U.S. financial institution is prohibited from knowingly engaging in any transaction with or benefitting Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (“IEEPA”).
et seq.
) (“IEEPA”).
Note 1 to § 561.202:
The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Agents or affiliates of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (“IRGC”) whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 544, will have the tag “[NPWMD] [IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. In addition, see § 561.405 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Agents or affiliates of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (“IRGC”) whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferators Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 544, will have the tag “[NPWMD] [IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. In addition, see § 561.405 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked.
Note 2 to § 561.202:
A U.S. financial institution is subject to the civil penalties provided for in section 206(b) of IEEPA if any person that it owns or controls violates the prohibition set forth in this section and the U.S. financial institution knew or should have known of such violation. See § 561.701(a)(2).
See
§ 561.701(a)(2).

§ 561.203   NDAA-based sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.

(a) Imposition of sanctions. Subject to the limitations, exceptions, and conditions set forth in paragraphs (d) through (k) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution has knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction with the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, consistent with section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81) (22 U.S.C. 8513a) (the “2012 NDAA”), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158) (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795) (the “TRA”), the Secretary of the Treasury:
Imposition of
sanctions.
Subject to the limitations, exceptions, and conditions set forth in paragraphs (d) through (k) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution has knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction with the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, consistent with section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81) (22 U.S.C. 8513a) (the “2012 NDAA”), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158) (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795) (the “TRA”), the Secretary of the Treasury:
(1) Will prohibit U.S. financial institutions from opening a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; and either
(2)(i) Will prohibit U.S. financial institutions from maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; or
(ii) Will impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining of any correspondent account or payable-through account that had been opened in the United States for the foreign financial institution prior to the Secretary of the Treasury's determination with respect to the foreign financial institution.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
) of § 561.203:
The names of designated Iranian financial institutions are identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”) on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site with the tag “[NDAA]” at the end of their entries, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site: www.treasury.gov/sdn.
designated Iranian financial institutions
are identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (the “SDN List”) on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site with the tag “[NDAA]” at the end of their entries, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
) of § 561.203:
The name of any foreign financial institution with respect to which a determination has been made pursuant to this paragraph (a), along with the relevant sanctions to be imposed (prohibition(s) and/or strict condition(s)), will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Strict conditions. The strict conditions that might be imposed on the maintaining of a pre-existing correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section include, but are not limited to, the following:
Strict conditions.
The strict conditions that might be imposed on the maintaining of a pre-existing correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(2) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(3) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(4) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(5) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.
(c) Prohibitions. (1) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
Prohibitions.
(1) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(d) Privately owned foreign financial institutions. (1) Subject to the exceptions set forth in paragraphs (g) and (i) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section beginning on February 29, 2012, with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a privately owned foreign financial institution that is not for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran.
Privately owned
foreign financial
institutions.
(1) Subject to the exceptions set forth in paragraphs (g) and (i) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section beginning on February 29, 2012, with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a privately owned foreign financial institution that is not for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran.
(2) Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (h) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a privately owned foreign financial institution on or after June 28, 2012, for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran.
(e) Government-owned or -controlled foreign financial institutions, excluding foreign central banks. (1) Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (h) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country, excluding a central bank of a foreign country, on or after June 28, 2012, for the sale or purchase of petroleum or petroleum products to or from Iran.
Government-owned or
-controlled foreign
financial institutions,
excluding foreign
central banks.
(1) Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (h) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country, excluding a central bank of a foreign country, on or after June 28, 2012, for the sale or purchase of petroleum or petroleum products to or from Iran.
(2) Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (g) and (i) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country, excluding a central bank of a foreign country, on or after February 6, 2013, that is not for the sale or purchase of petroleum or petroleum products to or from Iran.
(f) Foreign central banks. Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (h) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section on a central bank of a foreign country only insofar as it engages in a financial transaction for the sale or purchase of petroleum or petroleum products to or from Iran conducted or facilitated on or after June 28, 2012.
Foreign central
banks.
Subject to the exceptions and conditions set forth in paragraphs (h) through (k) of this section, sanctions may be imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section on a central bank of a foreign country only insofar as it engages in a financial transaction for the sale or purchase of petroleum or petroleum products to or from Iran conducted or facilitated on or after June 28, 2012.
(g) Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any foreign financial institution for conducting or facilitating a transaction for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran.
(h) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose sanctions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution on or after June 28, 2012, for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran only if the President determines, not later than March 30, 2012, and every 180 days thereafter, that there is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum products from countries other than Iran to permit a significant reduction in petroleum and petroleum products purchased from Iran by or through foreign financial institutions. Such successive sufficiency determinations by the President shall render subject to sanctions under paragraph (a) of this section those financial transactions conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution for the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran during each successive 180-day period beginning 90 days after the President's determination.
Note to paragraph (
h
) of § 561.203:
Under Section 1245(d)(4)(B) of the 2012 NDAA, the President is to make a determination, not later than March 30, 2012, and every 180 days thereafter, of whether the price and supply of petroleum and petroleum products produced in countries other than Iran is sufficient to permit purchasers of petroleum and petroleum products from Iran to reduce significantly their purchases from Iran. This determination is to be based on reports on the availability and price of petroleum and petroleum products produced in countries other than Iran that, pursuant to section 1245(d)(4)(A) of the 2012 NDAA, the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Director of National Intelligence, was to submit to Congress beginning not later than February 29, 2012, and every 60 days thereafter. Beginning September 1, 2012, pursuant to section 1245(d)(4)(A) of the 2012 NDAA, as amended by section 503(b) of the TRA, the report of the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration is to be submitted to Congress not later than October 25, 2012, and the last Thursday of every other month thereafter.
(i) Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a financial transaction described in paragraph (j) of this section that is conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution if, for the 180-day period during which the financial transaction is conducted or facilitated, the Secretary of State has determined and reported to Congress:
(1) That the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution has significantly reduced its crude oil purchases from Iran, thus qualifying for a “significant reduction exception” for the 180-day period during which the financial transaction is conducted or facilitated; or
(2) That the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution has received a significant reduction exception described in this paragraph in a previous period and, after receiving the exception, has reduced its crude oil purchases from Iran to zero during a subsequent 180-day reporting period.
Note to paragraph (
i
) of § 561.203:
The Secretary of State is to determine whether a country qualifies for the “significant reduction exception” and report such determination to Congress not later than 90 days after the date on which the President makes the initial determination referenced in paragraph (h) of this section, and every 180 days thereafter. Accordingly, a significant reduction exception covers a period of 180 days.
(j) A financial transaction conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution is described in this paragraph (j) if:
(1) The financial transaction is only for trade in goods or services that either originate in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution and are exported and sold directly to Iran or originate in Iran and are exported and sold directly to the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution;
(2) Any funds owed to the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution as a result of such trade are paid to:
(i) Individuals who are citizens, nationals, or permanent residents of the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution; or
(ii) Entities organized under the laws of the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution that are not the Government of Iran, as defined in § 561.321;
(3) Any funds owed to Iran as a result of such trade are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph (k) of this section; and
(4) Funds owed as a result of such trade are not credited to an account held at any financial institution whose name appears on the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac).
www.treasury.gov/ofac
).
(k) In order for a transaction to qualify for the significant reduction exception from the sanctions imposed under paragraph (a) of this section described in paragraph (i), all funds owed to Iran as a result of a trade transaction described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section must be subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
(1) The funds must be credited to an account held at a foreign financial institution that conducted or facilitated the trade transaction described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section;
(2) The funds must be credited to an account held in the country with primary jurisdiction over that foreign financial institution;
(3) The funds must be credited to an account held in the name of the Central Bank of Iran, the Iranian party to the trade transaction, or an Iranian financial institution that is not a designated Iranian financial institution;
(4) Payments from the funds may be made only in the manner and to the persons specified in paragraph (k)(5) of this section for amounts owed to such persons for the direct exportation and sale to Iran of goods or services originating in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution holding the funds (but see Note 2 to § 561.203);
but see
Note 2 to § 561.203);
(5) Payments from the funds for the goods or services exported and sold to Iran, as described in paragraph (k)(4) of this section, may be made only by check payable to or to the order of, or by transfer to an account at a foreign financial institution in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution holding the funds that is held in the name of:
(i) Individuals who are citizens, nationals, or permanent residents of the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution holding the funds; or
(ii) Entities that are organized under the laws of that country;
(6) The funds may not be withdrawn in cash, remitted to Iran or paid to anyone that is the Government of Iran, as defined in § 561.321, or credited to an account held at a financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List (see paragraph (j)(4) of this section); and
Government of
Iran,
as defined in § 561.321, or credited to an account held at a financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List (see paragraph (j)(4) of this section); and
(7) Other than in payment for goods or services exported and sold to Iran as set forth in paragraphs (k)(4) through (k)(6) of this section, the funds may be transferred from the initial account described in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(3) of this section only to another account that is held at the same foreign financial institution, located in the country with primary jurisdiction over that foreign financial institution, and subject to the following conditions and restrictions:
(i) The account must be a separate, special purpose account holding only funds owed to Iran as a result of trade transactions that qualify for the significant reduction exception described in paragraph (i) of this section and that are conducted or facilitated by the foreign financial institution holding the account; and
(ii) The conditions and restrictions on the funds owed to Iran set forth in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(6) of this section apply in full to the account described in this paragraph, except that the account must be held only in the name of the Central Bank of Iran or an Iranian financial institution that is not a designated Iranian financial institution.
Note to paragraphs (
j
) and (
k
) of § 561.203:
See § 561.408 for a provision interpreting the phrases goods or services originating in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution and goods or services originating in Iran.
See
§ 561.408 for a provision interpreting the phrases goods or services originating in the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution and goods or services originating in Iran.
Note 1 to § 561.203:
The sanctions regime described in § 561.203 is separate from the sanctions regimes described in §§ 561.201 and 561.204 and applies in addition to, and independently of, the sanctions regimes imposed under §§ 561.201 and 561.204.
Note 2 to § 561.203:
Paragraph (g) of this section excepts transactions for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran from the imposition of sanctions under paragraph (a) of this section. Therefore, funds owed to Iran as a result of a trade transaction described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section may be used for the purchase and export to Iran of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices regardless of the country from which such goods are purchased and regardless of where such goods originate, and payment from the funds for such goods may be made to exporters in countries other than the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution holding the funds.
[[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16405, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019]]

§ 561.204   Additional petroleum-related sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.

(a) Imposition of sanctions. Subject to the limitations, exceptions, and conditions set forth in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution has knowingly engaged in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may:
Imposition of sanctions.
Subject to the limitations, exceptions, and conditions set forth in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution has knowingly engaged in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may:
(1) Prohibit U.S. financial institutions from opening a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; and either
(2)(i) Prohibit U.S. financial institutions from maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; or
(ii) Impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining of any correspondent account or payable-through account that had been opened in the United States for the foreign financial institution prior to the Secretary of the Treasury's determination with respect to the foreign financial institution.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
) of § 561.204:
The name of any foreign financial institution with respect to which a determination has been made pursuant to this paragraph (a), along with the relevant sanctions to be imposed (prohibition(s) and/or strict condition(s)), will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
) of § 561.204:
See § 561.203(b) for examples of strict conditions that might be imposed, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, on the maintaining of a pre-existing correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury's determination has been made.
See
§ 561.203(b) for examples of strict conditions that might be imposed, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, on the maintaining of a pre-existing correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury's determination has been made.
(b) Sanctionable activity. A foreign financial institution engages in an activity described in this paragraph if it knowingly conducts or facilitates any significant financial transaction:
Sanctionable activity.
A foreign financial institution engages in an activity described in this paragraph if it knowingly conducts or facilitates any significant financial transaction:
(1) With the National Iranian Oil Company (“NIOC”), the Naftiran Intertrade Company (“NICO”), or any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, except for a sale or provision to any of the foregoing of the products described in section 5(a)(3)(A)(i) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-172) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended, provided that the fair market value of such products is lower than the applicable dollar threshold specified in that provision;
Note to paragraph (
b
)(1) of § 561.204:
As of March 15, 2013, the products described in section 5(a)(3)(A)(i) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-172) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note), as amended, are refined petroleum products, and for the fair market value of such products to be lower than the applicable dollar threshold specified in that provision the products sold or provided to NIOC, NICO, or any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, must have a fair market value of less than $1,000,000, and, during a 12-month period, an aggregate fair market value of less than $5,000,000.
(2) For the purchase or acquisition of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran; or
(3) For the purchase or acquisition of petrochemical products from Iran.
(c) Prohibitions. (1) A U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
Prohibitions.
(1) A U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) A U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) A U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(4) The prohibitions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section apply except to the extent transactions are authorized by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of the prohibition.
(d) Exempt activity. Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any foreign financial institution for:
Exempt activity.
Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any foreign financial institution for:
(1) Conducting or facilitating a transaction for the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran or when the underlying transaction has been authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to any part of this chapter V; or
(2) Conducting or facilitating a transaction involving a natural gas development and pipeline project initiated prior to July 31, 2012, to bring gas from Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey in furtherance of a production sharing agreement or license awarded by a sovereign government other than the Government of Iran before July 31, 2012.
Note to paragraph (
d
)(2) of § 561.204:
The natural gas development and pipeline project referred to in this paragraph is the project to develop the Shah Deniz natural gas field in Azerbaijan's sector of the Caspian Sea and related pipeline projects to bring the gas from Azerbaijan to Europe and Turkey.
(e) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose sanctions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section only if the President makes the successive determinations that there is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum products from countries other than Iran described in paragraph (h) of § 561.203.
(f) Sanctions will not be imposed under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any significant financial transaction described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section that is conducted or facilitated by a foreign financial institution if:
(1) For the 180-day period during which the financial transaction is conducted or facilitated, the Secretary of State has determined and reported to Congress:
(i) That the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution has significantly reduced its crude oil purchases from Iran, thus qualifying for the “significant reduction exception” for the 180-day period during which the financial transaction is conducted or facilitated; or
(ii) That the country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution has received a significant reduction exception described in this paragraph in a previous period, and, after receiving the exception, has reduced its crude oil purchases from Iran to zero during a subsequent 180-day reporting period; and
(2) The transaction satisfies the conditions and restrictions set forth in paragraphs (j) and (k) of § 561.203.
Note to paragraph (
f
) of § 561.204:
The Secretary of State is to determine whether a country qualifies for the “significant reduction exception” and report such determination to Congress not later than 90 days after the date on which the President makes the initial determination referenced in paragraph (h) of this section, and every 180 days thereafter. Accordingly, a significant reduction exception covers a period of 180 days.
Note to § 561.204:
The sanctions regime described in this section is separate from the sanctions regimes described in §§ 561.201 and 561.203 and applies in addition to, and independently of, the sanctions regimes imposed under §§ 561.201 and 561.203.
[[78 FR 16407, Mar. 15, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019]]

§ 561.205   Metals-related sanctions on certain foreign financial institutions.

(a) Imposition of sanctions. Subject to the exemptions set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, that a foreign financial institution has, on or after May 8, 2019, knowingly engaged in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may:
Imposition of sanctions.
Subject to the exemptions set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, that a foreign financial institution has, on or after May 8, 2019, knowingly engaged in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may:
(1) Prohibit U.S. financial institutions from opening a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; and either
(2)(i) Prohibit U.S. financial institutions from maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made; or
(ii) Impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining of a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution with respect to which the determination has been made.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
The name of any foreign financial institution with respect to which a determination has been made pursuant to this paragraph (a), along with the relevant sanctions to be imposed (prohibition(s) and/or strict condition(s)), will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 561.203(b) for examples of strict conditions that might be imposed, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, on the maintaining of a correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury's determination has been made.
See
§ 561.203(b) for examples of strict conditions that might be imposed, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, on the maintaining of a correspondent account or payable-through account for a foreign financial institution with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury's determination has been made.
(b) Sanctionable activity. A foreign financial institution has engaged in an activity described in this paragraph if it knowingly conducted or facilitated, on or after May 8, 2019, any significant financial transaction:
Sanctionable activity.
A foreign financial institution has engaged in an activity described in this paragraph if it knowingly conducted or facilitated, on or after May 8, 2019, any significant financial transaction:
(1) For the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
(2) For the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran; or
(3) For or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13871.
(c) Prohibitions. (1) A U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
Prohibitions.
(1) A U.S. financial institution shall not open a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) A U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) A U.S. financial institution shall not maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(4) The prohibitions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(d) Exempt activity. Nothing in this section shall apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Exempt activity.
Nothing in this section shall apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
[[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.220   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
[[78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013. Redesignated at 84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 561.301   Effective date.

(a) The effective date of a prohibition or condition imposed pursuant to §§ 561.201, 561.203, 561.204, or 561.205 on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition.
(b) The effective date of the prohibition contained in § 561.202 with respect to Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and any of its agents or affiliates whose property and interests in property are blocked as of August 16, 2010, is August 16, 2010.
(c) The effective date of the prohibition contained in § 561.202 with respect to an agent or affiliate of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps whose property and interests in property become blocked after August 16, 2010, is the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(d) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
[[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.302   UNSC Resolution 1737.

The term UNSC Resolution 1737 means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1737, adopted December 23, 2006.
UNSC Resolution
1737
means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1737, adopted December 23, 2006.

§ 561.303   UNSC Resolution 1747.

The term UNSC Resolution 1747 means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1747, adopted March 24, 2007.
UNSC Resolution
1747
means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1747, adopted March 24, 2007.

§ 561.304   UNSC Resolution 1803.

The term UNSC Resolution 1803 means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1803, adopted March 3, 2008.
UNSC Resolution
1803
means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1803, adopted March 3, 2008.

§ 561.305   UNSC Resolution 1929.

The term UNSC Resolution 1929 means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929, adopted June 9, 2010.
UNSC Resolution
1929
means United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929, adopted June 9, 2010.

§ 561.306   Correspondent account.

The term correspondent account means an account established by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution.
correspondent account
means an account established by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution.

§ 561.307   Payable-through account.

The term payable-through account means a correspondent account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
payable-through account
means a correspondent account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.

§ 561.308   Foreign financial institution.

The term foreign financial institution means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
foreign financial institution
means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[[77 FR 66920, Nov. 8, 2012]]

§ 561.309   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial
institution
means any U.S. entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 561.310   Money laundering.

The term money laundering means engaging in deceptive practices to obscure the nature of transactions involving the movement of illicit cash or illicit cash equivalent proceeds into, out of, or through a country, or into, out of, or through a financial institution, such that the transactions are made to appear legitimate.
money laundering
means engaging in deceptive practices to obscure the nature of transactions involving the movement of illicit cash or illicit cash equivalent proceeds into, out of, or through a country, or into, out of, or through a financial institution, such that the transactions are made to appear legitimate.

§ 561.311   Agent.

The term agent includes an entity established by a person for purposes of conducting transactions on behalf of the person in order to conceal the identity of the person.
agent
includes an entity established by a person for purposes of conducting transactions on behalf of the person in order to conceal the identity of the person.

§ 561.312   Act of international terrorism.

The term act of international terrorism has the same definition as that provided under section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note). As of February 27, 2012, the term act of international terrorism means an act which is violent or dangerous to human life and that is a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any state or that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction of the United States or any state and which appears to be intended to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping.
act of
international terrorism
has the same definition as that provided under section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note). As of February 27, 2012, the term
act of
international terrorism
means an act which is violent or dangerous to human life and that is a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any state or that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction of the United States or any state and which appears to be intended to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping.

§ 561.313   Financial services.

The term financial services includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.
financial services
includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.

§ 561.314   Knowingly.

The term knowingly, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

§ 561.315   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 561.316   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization.

§ 561.317   Money service businesses.

The term money service businesses means any agent, agency, branch, or office of any person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern, in one or more of the capacities listed in 31 CFR 103.11(uu)(1) through (5). The term does not include a bank or a person registered with, and regulated or examined by, the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
money service
businesses
means any agent, agency, branch, or office of any person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern, in one or more of the capacities listed in 31 CFR 103.11(uu)(1) through (5). The term does not include a bank or a person registered with, and regulated or examined by, the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

§ 561.318   Petroleum.

The term petroleum (also known as crude oil) means a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities.
petroleum
(also known as crude oil) means a mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities.
[[78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013]]

§ 561.319   Petroleum products.

The term petroleum products includes unfinished oils, liquefied petroleum gases, pentanes plus, aviation gasoline, motor gasoline, naphtha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, petrochemical feedstocks, special naphthas, lubricants, waxes, petroleum coke, asphalt, road oil, still gas, and miscellaneous products obtained from the processing of crude oil (including lease condensate), natural gas, and other hydrocarbon compounds. The term does not include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, biofuels, methanol, and other non-petroleum fuels.
petroleum products
includes unfinished oils, liquefied petroleum gases, pentanes plus, aviation gasoline, motor gasoline, naphtha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, petrochemical feedstocks, special naphthas, lubricants, waxes, petroleum coke, asphalt, road oil, still gas, and miscellaneous products obtained from the processing of crude oil (including lease condensate), natural gas, and other hydrocarbon compounds. The term does not include natural gas, liquefied natural gas, biofuels, methanol, and other non-petroleum fuels.

§ 561.320   Iranian financial institution.

The term Iranian financial institution means any entity (including foreign branches), wherever located, organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, or in Iran, or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing, that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing.
Iranian financial institution
means any entity (including foreign branches), wherever located, organized under the laws of Iran or any jurisdiction within Iran, or owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, or in Iran, or owned or controlled by any of the foregoing, that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing.
[[77 FR 66920, Nov. 8, 2012]]

§ 561.321   Government of Iran.

The term Government of Iran includes:
Government of
Iran
includes:
(a) The state and the Government of Iran, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof;
(b) Any entity owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the foregoing;
(c) Any person to the extent that such person is, or has been, or to the extent that there is reasonable cause to believe that such person is, or has been, acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of any of the foregoing; and
(d) Any person or entity identified by the Secretary of the Treasury to be the Government of Iran under 31 CFR part 560.

§ 561.322   Entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran.

The phrase entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran means any entity, including a financial institution, in which the Government of Iran owns a 50 percent or greater interest or a controlling interest, and any entity, including a financial institution, which is otherwise controlled by that government.
entity owned
or controlled
by the
Government of
Iran
means any entity, including a financial institution, in which the Government of Iran owns a 50 percent or greater interest or a controlling interest, and any entity, including a financial institution, which is otherwise controlled by that government.

§ 561.323   Foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country.

The phrase foreign financial institution owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country means any foreign financial institution, including a central bank of a foreign country, in which a government of a foreign country owns a 50 percent or greater interest and any foreign financial institution which is otherwise controlled by a government of a foreign country.
foreign financial
institution owned
or controlled
by the
government of
a foreign
country
means any foreign financial institution, including a central bank of a foreign country, in which a government of a foreign country owns a 50 percent or greater interest and any foreign financial institution which is otherwise controlled by a government of a foreign country.

§ 561.324   Designated Iranian financial institution.

The term designated Iranian financial institution means any Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked by the Department of the Treasury pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order issued pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and whose name is listed on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site, except for any Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012.
designated Iranian
financial institution
means any Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked by the Department of the Treasury pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order issued pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and whose name is listed on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site, except for any Iranian financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012.
Note to § 561.324:
Facilitating significant transactions or providing significant financial services for a financial institution whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to parts 544 or 594 of this chapter in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction or Iran's support for international terrorism has, since the enactment of CISADA on July 1, 2010, constituted an activity that could subject a foreign financial institution to prohibitions or strict conditions on correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts in the United States. See § 561.201.

§ 561.325   Financial transaction.

The term financial transaction means any transfer of value involving a financial institution.
financial transaction
means any transfer of value involving a financial institution.

§ 561.326   Privately owned foreign financial institution.

The phrase privately owned foreign financial institution means any foreign financial institution that is not owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country.
privately owned
foreign financial
institution
means any foreign financial institution that is not owned or controlled by the government of a foreign country.

§ 561.327   Agricultural commodities, food, medicine, and medical devices.

(a) The term agricultural commodities means:
agricultural commodities
means:
(1) Products not listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1, that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(2) Products not listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1, that are intended for ultimate use in Iran as:
(i) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(ii) Seeds for food crops;
(iii) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(iv) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(b) The term food means items that are intended to be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans or animals in Iran, including vitamins and minerals, food additives and supplements, and bottled drinking water, and seeds that germinate into items that are intended to be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans or animals in Iran. For purposes of this definition, the term food does not include:
food
means items that are intended to be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans or animals in Iran, including vitamins and minerals, food additives and supplements, and bottled drinking water, and seeds that germinate into items that are intended to be consumed by and provide nutrition to humans or animals in Iran. For purposes of this definition, the term
food
does not include:
(1) Alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, gum, or fertilizer; and
(2) The following excluded food items: castor beans, castor bean seeds, raw eggs, fertilized eggs (other than fish and shrimp roe), dried egg albumin, live animals, Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, and peptones and their derivatives.
(c) The term medicine has the same meaning given the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1 (excluding items classified as EAR 99).
medicine
has the same meaning given the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1 (excluding items classified as EAR 99).
(d) The term medical devices has the meaning given the term “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1 (excluding items classified as EAR 99).
medical devices
has the meaning given the term “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1 (excluding items classified as EAR 99).
[[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013]]

§ 561.328   Reduce significantly, significantly reduced, and significant reduction.

The terms reduce significantly, significantly reduced, and significant reduction, used with respect to purchases from Iran of petroleum and petroleum products, include a reduction in such purchases in terms of price or volume toward a complete cessation of such purchases.
reduce significantly,
significantly reduced,
and
significant reduction,
used with respect to purchases from Iran of petroleum and petroleum products, include a reduction in such purchases in terms of price or volume toward a complete cessation of such purchases.
[[78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013]]

§ 561.329   Iran.

The term Iran means the Government of Iran and the territory of Iran and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements.
Iran
means the Government of Iran and the territory of Iran and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements.
[[78 FR 16408, Mar. 15, 2013]]

§ 561.330   Petrochemical products.

The term petrochemical products includes any aromatic, olefin, and synthesis gas, and any of their derivatives, including ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene, toluene, xylene, ammonia, methanol, and urea.
petrochemical products
includes any aromatic, olefin, and synthesis gas, and any of their derivatives, including ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene, toluene, xylene, ammonia, methanol, and urea.
[[78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013]]

§ 561.331   Aluminum, aluminum products.

The terms aluminum and aluminum products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of aluminum or aluminum alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates (e.g., bauxite and alumina); unwrought aluminum including ingots, slabs, and billets; powders and flakes; wrought aluminum including bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strip, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; waste and scrap, including slag, and any aluminum and aluminum products produced from the melting or recycling of aluminum scrap.
aluminum
and
aluminum products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of aluminum or aluminum alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates (
e.g.,
bauxite and alumina); unwrought aluminum including ingots, slabs, and billets; powders and flakes; wrought aluminum including bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strip, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; waste and scrap, including slag, and any aluminum and aluminum products produced from the melting or recycling of aluminum scrap.
[[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.332   Aluminum sector of Iran.

The term aluminum sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of aluminum or aluminum products in Iran.
aluminum sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of aluminum or aluminum products in Iran.
[[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.333   Copper, copper products.

The terms copper and copper products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of copper or copper alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates; copper mattes, cement copper (precipitated copper); refined, unrefined, wrought, or unwrought copper; billets; cathodes; bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strips, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube and pipe fittings; powders and flakes; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and waste and scrap, including slag.
copper
and
copper products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of copper or copper alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates; copper mattes, cement copper (precipitated copper); refined, unrefined, wrought, or unwrought copper; billets; cathodes; bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strips, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube and pipe fittings; powders and flakes; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and waste and scrap, including slag.
[[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.334   Copper sector of Iran.

The term copper sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of copper or copper products in Iran.
copper sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of copper or copper products in Iran.
[[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.335   Iron, iron products, steel, steel products.

The terms iron, iron products, steel, and steel products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of iron, iron alloy, alloy steel, non-alloy steel, ferroalloys, pig iron, and spiegeleisen of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, whether or not clad, plated, or coated, including in the following forms: Iron ores and concentrates including roasted iron pyrites; pigs and blocks; ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of iron ore and other spongy ferrous products, in lumps or pellets; granules and powders; ingots, blooms billets, slabs, and beam blanks; flat-rolled products (plates, sheets, strips, and foils) either cut-to-length or in coils; bars, and rods; structural profiles (beams, channels, angles, and other shapes); sheet piling; railway or tramway track construction materials; tubes, pipes, and hollow profiles; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and ferrous waste and scrap, including slag.
iron, iron products, steel,
and
steel products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of iron, iron alloy, alloy steel, non-alloy steel, ferroalloys, pig iron, and spiegeleisen of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, whether or not clad, plated, or coated, including in the following forms: Iron ores and concentrates including roasted iron pyrites; pigs and blocks; ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of iron ore and other spongy ferrous products, in lumps or pellets; granules and powders; ingots, blooms billets, slabs, and beam blanks; flat-rolled products (plates, sheets, strips, and foils) either cut-to-length or in coils; bars, and rods; structural profiles (beams, channels, angles, and other shapes); sheet piling; railway or tramway track construction materials; tubes, pipes, and hollow profiles; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and ferrous waste and scrap, including slag.
[[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.336   Iron sector of Iran.

The term iron sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of iron or iron products in Iran.
iron sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of iron or iron products in Iran.
[[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.337   Steel sector of Iran.

The term steel sector of Iran means the iron-ore smelting, ferrous-scrap melting, refining, processing, or manufacturing of steel or steel products in Iran.
steel sector of Iran
means the iron-ore smelting, ferrous-scrap melting, refining, processing, or manufacturing of steel or steel products in Iran.
[[84 FR 38547, Aug. 7, 2019]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 561.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 561.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 561.403   Facilitation of certain efforts, activities, or transactions by foreign financial institutions.

For purposes of §§ 561.201, 561.203, 561.204, and 561.205, the term facilitate or facilitated used with respect to certain efforts, activities, or transactions refers to the provision of assistance by a foreign financial institution for those efforts, activities, or transactions, including the provision of currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; purchasing; selling; transporting; swapping; brokering; financing; approving; guaranteeing; or the provision of other services of any kind; or the provision of personnel; or the provision of software, technology, or goods of any kind.
facilitate
or
facilitated
used with respect to certain efforts, activities, or transactions refers to the provision of assistance by a foreign financial institution for those efforts, activities, or transactions, including the provision of currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; purchasing; selling; transporting; swapping; brokering; financing; approving; guaranteeing; or the provision of other services of any kind; or the provision of personnel; or the provision of software, technology, or goods of any kind.
[[84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.404   Significant transaction or transactions; significant financial services; significant financial transaction.

In determining, for purposes of paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, whether a transaction is significant, whether transactions are significant, or whether financial services are significant, or, for purposes of paragraph (a) of § 561.203, paragraph (b) of § 561.204, and paragraph (b) of § 561.205 whether a financial transaction is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Secretary may consider some or all of the following factors:
(a) Size, number, and frequency. The size, number, and frequency of transactions, financial services, or financial transactions performed over a period of time, including whether the transactions, financial services, or financial transactions are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of transactions, financial services, or financial transactions performed over a period of time, including whether the transactions, financial services, or financial transactions are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b) Nature. The nature of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction, including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction.
Nature.
The nature of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction, including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction.
(c) Level of Awareness; Pattern of Conduct. (1) Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and (2) Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
Level of Awareness; Pattern of Conduct.
(1) Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and (2) Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d) Nexus. The proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) or providing the financial services and a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, or between the foreign financial institution conducting or facilitating the financial transaction described in paragraph (a) of § 561.203 and the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, as defined in § 561.324, or between the foreign financial institution conducting or facilitating the financial transaction described in paragraph (b) of § 561.204 and the National Iranian Oil Company (“NIOC”), the Naftiran Intertrade Company (“NICO”), any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, or the activities described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of that section. For example, a transaction or financial service in which a foreign financial institution provides brokerage or clearing services to, or maintains an account or makes payments for, a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, the Central Bank of Iran, a designated Iranian financial institution, NIOC, or NICO in a direct customer relationship generally would be of greater significance than a transaction or financial service a foreign financial institution conducts for or provides to a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, the Central Bank of Iran, a designated Iranian financial institution, NIOC, or NICO indirectly or in a tertiary relationship.
Nexus.
The proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) or providing the financial services and a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, or between the foreign financial institution conducting or facilitating the financial transaction described in paragraph (a) of § 561.203 and the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, as defined in § 561.324, or between the foreign financial institution conducting or facilitating the financial transaction described in paragraph (b) of § 561.204 and the National Iranian Oil Company (“NIOC”), the Naftiran Intertrade Company (“NICO”), any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, or the activities described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of that section. For example, a transaction or financial service in which a foreign financial institution provides brokerage or clearing services to, or maintains an account or makes payments for, a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, the Central Bank of Iran, a designated Iranian financial institution, NIOC, or NICO in a direct customer relationship generally would be of greater significance than a transaction or financial service a foreign financial institution conducts for or provides to a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, the Central Bank of Iran, a designated Iranian financial institution, NIOC, or NICO indirectly or in a tertiary relationship.
(e) Impact. The impact of the transaction(s) or financial services on the objectives of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010, as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (“TRA”), or of the financial transaction on the objectives of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, as amended by TRA, or of the financial transaction on the objectives of Executive Order 13622 of July 30, 2012, including:
Impact.
The impact of the transaction(s) or financial services on the objectives of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010, as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (“TRA”), or of the financial transaction on the objectives of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, as amended by TRA, or of the financial transaction on the objectives of Executive Order 13622 of July 30, 2012, including:
(1) The economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(5) of § 561.201, on the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution, or on NIOC, NICO, any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for or on behalf of, NIOC or NICO, or any person engaged in the activities described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of § 561.204;
(2) Whether and how the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction contributes to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for such weapons, to support for international terrorism, to the suppression of human rights, to an increase in Iran's crude oil revenues, or to connecting the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution to the international financial system; and
(3) Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction supports humanitarian activity or involves the payment of basic expenses as specified in and authorized pursuant to UNSC Resolution 1737 or the payment of extraordinary expenses that have been authorized by the Sanctions Committee established pursuant to UNSC Resolution 1737, or the payment for the sale of food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran.
(f) Deceptive practices: Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction or to evade sanctions; for example, whether the transaction enabled the Central Bank of Iran to facilitate the evasion of sanctions by a blocked person described in § 561.201(a)(5) or a designated Iranian financial institution, as defined in § 561.324.
Deceptive practices:
Whether the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction or to evade sanctions; for example, whether the transaction enabled the Central Bank of Iran to facilitate the evasion of sanctions by a blocked person described in § 561.201(a)(5) or a designated Iranian financial institution, as defined in § 561.324.
(g) Central Bank of Iran Reserves, Settlement Services, Foreign Currency Exchanges, and Official Development Assistance Repayment: Other factors involved in making a determination of whether a transaction(s), financial service, or financial transaction is significant are whether the transaction solely involves the passive holding of Central Bank of Iran reserves by a foreign financial institution; whether the Central Bank of Iran's role is limited to providing settlement services or foreign currency exchanges in transactions between a non-designated Iranian financial institution and a foreign financial institution; and whether the transaction involves only the repayment of official development assistance by the Central Bank of Iran or the transfer of funds required as a condition of Iran's membership in an international financial institution.
Central Bank of Iran Reserves, Settlement Services, Foreign Currency Exchanges, and Official Development Assistance Repayment:
Other factors involved in making a determination of whether a transaction(s), financial service, or financial transaction is significant are whether the transaction solely involves the passive holding of Central Bank of Iran reserves by a foreign financial institution; whether the Central Bank of Iran's role is limited to providing settlement services or foreign currency exchanges in transactions between a non-designated Iranian financial institution and a foreign financial institution; and whether the transaction involves only the repayment of official development assistance by the Central Bank of Iran or the transfer of funds required as a condition of Iran's membership in an international financial institution.
(h) Other relevant factors. Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction.
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s), financial services, or financial transaction.
[[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.405   Entities owned by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

A person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) has an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), regardless of whether the entity itself is listed on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List.
et seq.
) has an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which it owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), regardless of whether the entity itself is listed on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List.

§ 561.406   Country with primary jurisdiction over the foreign financial institution.

For purposes of § 561.203(i) and § 561.204(f), a country includes any jurisdiction that has its own central bank or contains a separate financial sector authority, and a foreign financial institution (including its foreign branches outside of the United States) is under a country's primary jurisdiction if the foreign financial institution is organized under the laws of the country or any jurisdiction within that country.
[[78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013]]

§ 561.407   Conducting or facilitating a financial transaction with the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution.

A foreign financial institution conducts or facilitates a financial transaction with the Central Bank of Iran or a designated Iranian financial institution if it maintains an account for such entities or engages in a financial transaction directly or indirectly with such entities.
Note to § 561.407:
See § 561.404 for factors that may be considered in determining whether a financial transaction is significant, as required for the imposition of certain sanctions pursuant to this part.

§ 561.408   Goods or services originating in a country.

(a) Goods originating in a country are goods that have been grown, produced, manufactured, extracted, or processed, and goods that have been substantially transformed, in the country.
(b) Services originating in a country are services performed in that country or services performed in the country to which the services are being exported by a citizen, national, or permanent resident of the country from which the services originate who is ordinarily resident in that country.
(c) For purposes of this part, services originating in a country do not include the brokering of transactions for the sale and exportation of goods or services not originating in that country.
[[78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 561.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part or conditions imposed pursuant to this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.

§ 561.502   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.

§ 561.503   Exclusion from licenses.

The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 561.504   Transactions related to closing a correspondent account or payable-through account.

(a) During the 10-day period beginning on the effective date of the prohibition in § 561.201(c), § 561.203(c)(2), § 561.204(c)(2), § 561.205(a), or § 561.205(c) on the maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website (www.treasury.gov/ofac), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:
(1) Process only those transactions through the account, or permit the foreign financial institution to execute only those transactions through the account, that are for the purpose of, and necessary for, closing the account; and
(2) Transfer the funds remaining in the correspondent account or the payable-through account to an account of the foreign financial institution located outside of the United States and close the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
(b) A report must be filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the closure of an account, providing full details on the closing of each correspondent account or payable-through account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List, maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac). Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. Reports should be addressed to the attention of the Compliance Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
). Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. Reports should be addressed to the attention of the Compliance Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions by a U.S. financial institution with respect to a correspondent account or a payable-through account maintained by the U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List, that are outside the scope of the transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section and/or that occur beyond the 10-day period authorized in that paragraph. License applications should be filed in conformance with § 501.801 of the Reporting, Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List.
Note to § 561.504:
This section does not authorize a U.S. financial institution to unblock property or interests in property, or to engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property, blocked pursuant to any other part of this chapter, in the process of closing a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name has been added to the CAPTA List, maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac). See § 561.101.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
).
See
§ 561.101.
[[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019; 84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019; 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 561.505   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 561.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter.

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 561.701   Penalties.

(a) Civil Penalties. (1) As set forth in section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551) (“CISADA”) and section 1245(g)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81) (22 U.S.C. 8513a) (“2012 NDAA”), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”) (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.201 or § 561.203 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibitions.
Civil Penalties.
(1) As set forth in section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551) (“CISADA”) and section 1245(g)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Pub. L. 112-81) (22 U.S.C. 8513a) (“2012 NDAA”), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”) (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.201 or § 561.203 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibitions.
(2) As set forth in section 104(d) of CISADA, a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of IEEPA may be imposed on a U.S. financial institution if:
(i) A person owned or controlled by the U.S. financial institution violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of the prohibition in § 561.202 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition; and
(ii) The U.S. financial institution knew or should have known that the person violated, attempted to violate, conspired to violate, or caused a violation of such prohibition.
(3) Pursuant to section 206 of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1705), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury under IEEPA, a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.204 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition.
(4) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(b) Criminal Penalty. (1) As set forth in section 104(c) of CISADA and section 1245(g)(2) of the 2012 NDAA, a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any prohibition contained in §§ 561.201 or 561.203 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
Criminal Penalty.
(1) As set forth in section 104(c) of CISADA and section 1245(g)(2) of the 2012 NDAA, a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any prohibition contained in §§ 561.201 or 561.203 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(2) Pursuant to section 206 of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1705), a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any prohibition contained in § 561.204 or of any order, regulation, or license set forth in or issued pursuant to this part concerning such prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(c) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to
penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(d) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that “whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry” shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(e) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16410, Mar. 15, 2013; 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11879, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19887, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 561.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty may be warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty may be warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days of the date of service of the Pre-Penalty Notice. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days of the date of service of the Pre-Penalty Notice. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 561.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any timely written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 561.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 561.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 561.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to subsections 104(c), (d), (h), or (i), or section 104A of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158) (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795), pursuant to Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010 (75 FR 60567, October 1, 2010), Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012 (77 FR 6659, February 8, 2012), Executive Order 13846 of August 6, 2018 (83 FR 38939, August 7, 2018), Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019 (84 FR 20761, May 10, 2019), or any further Executive order relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995, and any action of the Secretary of the Treasury described in this part, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 561.803   Consultations.

In implementing sections 104 and 104A of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551), as amended by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-158) (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795), the Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with the Secretary of State and may, in the sole discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, consult with such other agencies and departments and such other interested parties as the Secretary considers appropriate.
[[78 FR 16410, Mar. 15, 2013]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 561.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of the information collections relating to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of § 561.601, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. The information collection in § 561.504(b) has been approved by OMB and assigned control number 1505-0243. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. The information collection in § 561.504(b) has been approved by OMB and assigned control number 1505-0243. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 562—IRANIAN SECTOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 2332d; 22 U.S.C. 8501-8551; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12957, 60 FR 14615, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332; E.O. 13553, 75 FR 60567, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 253; E.O. 13871, 84 FR 20761, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 308.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 2332d; 22 U.S.C. 8501-8551; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 12957, 60 FR 14615, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 332; E.O. 13553, 75 FR 60567, 3 CFR, 2010 Comp., p. 253; E.O. 13871, 84 FR 20761, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 308.
[SOURCE:76 FR 7695, Feb. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.]
SOURCE:
76 FR 7695, Feb. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 562.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note to § 562.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance and additional general licenses and statements of licensing policy.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 562.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13553 are also prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to sections 1 and 6 of Executive Order 13871 are also prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to paragraph (
b
):
Section 2 of Executive Order 13871 is implemented in section 561.205 of the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 561.
Note 1 to § 562.201:
Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons listed in or designated pursuant to Executive Order 13553, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[IRAN-HR].” The names of persons designated pursuant to section 1 of Executive Order 13871, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[IRAN-EO13871].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 562.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[IRAN-HR].” The names of persons designated pursuant to section 1 of Executive Order 13871, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[IRAN-EO13871].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 562.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 562.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to Executive Order 13553 also are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAN-HR].” The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to Executive Order 13871 also are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAN-EO13871].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAN-HR].” The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to Executive Order 13871 also are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAN-EO13871].”
Note 3 to § 562.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 562.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 75962, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 562.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 562.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 562.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of IEEPA, Executive Order 13553, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
) of § 562.202:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which, on or since the effective date, there existed an interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201.

§ 562.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 562.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a Federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account described in paragraph (b) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 562.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account as described in paragraphs (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 562.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 562.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 562.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 562.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
Note to 1 § 562.301:
See § 562.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201.
See
§ 562.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201.
[[76 FR 7695, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 562.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13553, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, September 29, 2010;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13553, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked; and
(3) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to Executive Order 13871, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 562.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 562.304   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 562.305   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
Note to § 562.305:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 562.306   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 562.307   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 562.308   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 562.309   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 562.310   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 562.311   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 562.312   Aluminum, aluminum products.

The terms aluminum and aluminum products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of aluminum or aluminum alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates (e.g., bauxite and alumina); unwrought aluminum including ingots, slabs, and billets; powders and flakes; wrought aluminum including bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strip, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; waste and scrap, including slag, and any aluminum and aluminum products produced from the melting or recycling of aluminum scrap.
aluminum
and
aluminum products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of aluminum or aluminum alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates (
e.g.,
bauxite and alumina); unwrought aluminum including ingots, slabs, and billets; powders and flakes; wrought aluminum including bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strip, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; waste and scrap, including slag, and any aluminum and aluminum products produced from the melting or recycling of aluminum scrap.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 562.313   Aluminum sector of Iran.

The term aluminum sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of aluminum or aluminum products in Iran.
aluminum sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of aluminum or aluminum products in Iran.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 562.314   Copper, Copper products.

The terms copper and copper products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of copper or copper alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates; copper mattes, cement copper (precipitated copper); refined, unrefined, wrought, or unwrought copper; billets; cathodes; bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strips, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube and pipe fittings; powders and flakes; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and waste and scrap, including slag.
copper
and
copper products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of copper or copper alloy of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, including in the following forms: Ores and concentrates; copper mattes, cement copper (precipitated copper); refined, unrefined, wrought, or unwrought copper; billets; cathodes; bars, rods, profiles, plates, sheets, strips, foil, tubes, and pipes; tube and pipe fittings; powders and flakes; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and waste and scrap, including slag.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 562.315   Copper sector of Iran.

The term copper sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of copper or copper products in Iran.
copper sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of copper or copper products in Iran.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 562.316   Iron, iron products, steel, steel products.

The terms iron, iron products, steel, and steel products mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of iron, iron alloy, alloy steel, non-alloy steel, ferroalloys, pig iron, and spiegeleisen of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, whether or not clad, plated, or coated, including in the following forms: Iron ores and concentrates, including roasted iron pyrites; pigs and blocks; ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of iron ore and other spongy ferrous products, in lumps or pellets; granules and powders; ingots, blooms billets, slabs, and beam blanks; flat-rolled products (plates, sheets, strips, and foils) either cut-to-length or in coils; bars and rods; structural profiles (beams, channels, angles, and other shapes); sheet piling; railway or tramway track construction materials; tubes, pipes, and hollow profiles; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and ferrous waste and scrap, including slag.
iron, iron products,
steel,
and
steel products
mean any raw, semi-fabricated, fabricated, or finished form of iron, iron alloy, alloy steel, non-alloy steel, ferroalloys, pig iron, and spiegeleisen of all grades, sizes, and thicknesses, whether or not clad, plated, or coated, including in the following forms: Iron ores and concentrates, including roasted iron pyrites; pigs and blocks; ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of iron ore and other spongy ferrous products, in lumps or pellets; granules and powders; ingots, blooms billets, slabs, and beam blanks; flat-rolled products (plates, sheets, strips, and foils) either cut-to-length or in coils; bars and rods; structural profiles (beams, channels, angles, and other shapes); sheet piling; railway or tramway track construction materials; tubes, pipes, and hollow profiles; tube or pipe fittings; reservoirs, tanks, vats, and similar containers; wire, stranded wire, ropes, cables, and plaited band; castings, stampings, and forgings; and ferrous waste and scrap, including slag.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 562.317   Iron sector of Iran.

The term iron sector of Iran means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of iron or iron products in Iran.
iron sector of Iran
means the mining, refining, processing, or manufacturing of iron or iron products in Iran.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]]

§ 562.318   Steel sector of Iran.

The term steel sector of Iran means the iron-ore smelting, ferrous-scrap melting, refining, processing, or manufacturing of steel or steel products in Iran.
steel sector of Iran
means the iron-ore smelting, ferrous-scrap melting, refining, processing, or manufacturing of steel or steel products in Iran.
[[84 FR 38549, Aug. 7, 2019]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 562.401   [Reserved]


§ 562.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in this part, any provision in or appendix to this chapter, or any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 562.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 562.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 562.201 or any other part of this chapter, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 562.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction authorized.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 562.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 562.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 562.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 562.407   Significant transaction or transactions.

In determining, for purposes of section 1(a)(ii) and 1(a)(iii) of Executive Order 13871, whether a transaction is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Secretary may consider some or all of the following factors:
(a) Size, number, and frequency. The size, number, and frequency of transactions performed, over a period of time, including whether the transactions are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of transactions performed, over a period of time, including whether the transactions are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b) Nature. The nature of the transaction(s), or the goods or services for sale, supply, or transfer, including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s), or the goods or services for sale, supply, or transfer.
Nature.
The nature of the transaction(s), or the goods or services for sale, supply, or transfer, including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s), or the goods or services for sale, supply, or transfer.
(c) Level of Awareness; Pattern of Conduct. (1) Whether the transaction(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
Level of Awareness; Pattern of Conduct.
(1) Whether the transaction(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
(2) Whether the transaction(s) is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d) Nexus. The proximity between the person that engaged in the transaction(s) and the activity described in sections 1(a)(ii) and (iii) of Executive Order 13871.
Nexus.
The proximity between the person that engaged in the transaction(s) and the activity described in sections 1(a)(ii) and (iii) of Executive Order 13871.
(e) Impact. The impact of the transaction(s) on the objectives of Executive Order 13871, including the economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on Iran or the iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sectors of Iran.
Impact.
The impact of the transaction(s) on the objectives of Executive Order 13871, including the economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on Iran or the iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sectors of Iran.
(f) Deceptive practices. Whether the transaction(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions.
Deceptive practices.
Whether the transaction(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions.
(g) Other relevant factors. Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s) or the sale, supply, or transfer of goods or services.
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s) or the sale, supply, or transfer of goods or services.
[[84 FR 38550, Aug. 7, 2019]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§§ 562.501-562.502   [Reserved]


§ 562.503   Exclusion from licenses.

The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 562.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 562.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 562.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See
also § 562.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 562.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 562.506   Provision of certain legal services authorized.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201 is authorized, provided that all receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings;
(3) Initiation and conduct of domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings in defense of property interests subject to U.S. jurisdiction;
(4) Representation of persons before any Federal or State agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 562.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.

§ 562.507   Authorization of emergency medical services.

The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 562.201 is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.

§ 562.508   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 562.509   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[[87 FR 78477, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 562.510   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 562.510.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78495, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 562.511   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 562.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78495, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subparts F-G [Reserved]


Subpart H—Procedures


§ 562.801   [Reserved]


§ 562.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010 (75 FR 60567, October 1, 2010), Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019 (84 FR 20761, May 10, 2019) and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 17, 1995, may be taken by the Director of Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[84 FR 38550, Aug. 7, 2019]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 562.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 562—Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010

EXECUTIVE ORDER
BLOCKING PROPERTY OF CERTAIN PERSONS WITH RESPECT TO SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES BY THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN AND TAKING CERTAIN OTHER ACTIONS
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (CISADA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-195) (CISADA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and in order to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995,
I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, hereby order:
Section 1. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, including any overseas branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, including any overseas branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) the persons listed in the Annex to this order; and
(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with or at the recommendation of the Secretary of State:
(A) to be an official of the Government of Iran or a person acting on behalf of the Government of Iran (including members of paramilitary organizations) who is responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the commission of serious human rights abuses against persons in Iran or Iranian citizens or residents, or the family members of the foregoing, on or after June 12, 2009, regardless of whether such abuses occurred in Iran;
(B) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the activities described in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(C) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a) of this section would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by subsection (a) of this section.
(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section include but are not limited to:
(i) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(ii) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.
Sec. 2. (a) Any transaction by a United States person or within the United States that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 2.
(a) Any transaction by a United States person or within the United States that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 3. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 3.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
person
” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
entity
” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States;
United States person
” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States;
(d) the term “Government of Iran” includes the Government of Iran, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran; and
Government of Iran
” includes the Government of Iran, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran; and
(e) the term “family member” means, with respect to an individual, a spouse, child, parent, sibling, grandchild, or grandparent of the individual.
family member
” means, with respect to an individual, a spouse, child, parent, sibling, grandchild, or grandparent of the individual.
Sec. 4. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1(a) of this order.
Sec. 4.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1(a) of this order.
Sec. 5. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA and sections 105(a)-(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)-(c)), other than as described in sections 6 and 7 of this order, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order other than the purposes of sections 6 and 7. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to impose or maintain sanctions pursuant to IEEPA under section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 5.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA and sections 105(a)-(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)-(c)), other than as described in sections 6 and 7 of this order, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order other than the purposes of sections 6 and 7. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to impose or maintain sanctions pursuant to IEEPA under section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 6. The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) with respect to imposition of the visa sanctions described in section 105(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(c)) and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 105(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(c)) with respect to the promulgation of rules and regulations related to the visa sanctions described therein and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to impose or maintain visa sanctions under section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law. In exercising the functions and authorities in the previous sentence, the Secretary of State shall consult the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security.
Sec. 6.
The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) with respect to imposition of the visa sanctions described in section 105(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(c)) and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 105(c) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(c)) with respect to the promulgation of rules and regulations related to the visa sanctions described therein and to redelegate these functions and authorities consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to impose or maintain visa sanctions under section 105(a) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(a)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law. In exercising the functions and authorities in the previous sentence, the Secretary of State shall consult the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security.
Sec. 7. The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby authorized to submit the initial and updated lists of persons who are subject to visa sanctions and whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order to the appropriate congressional committees as required by section 105(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(b)) and to redelegate these functions consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to include a person on the list required by section 105(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(b)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 7.
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby authorized to submit the initial and updated lists of persons who are subject to visa sanctions and whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order to the appropriate congressional committees as required by section 105(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(b)) and to redelegate these functions consistent with applicable law. The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby further authorized to exercise the functions and waiver authorities conferred upon the President by section 401(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8551(b)) with respect to the requirement to include a person on the list required by section 105(b) of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8514(b)) and to redelegate these functions and waiver authorities consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 8. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out section 104 of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8513). The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 8.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out section 104 of CISADA (22 U.S.C. 8513). The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 9. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the blocking of the property and interests in property of a person listed in the Annex to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination.
Sec. 9.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the blocking of the property and interests in property of a person listed in the Annex to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination.
Sec. 10. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 10.
This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 11. The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the 1981 Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as response to those later actions.
Sec. 11.
The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the 1981 Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as response to those later actions.
Sec. 12. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 29, 2010.
Sec. 12.
This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 29, 2010.
ANNEX
Individuals
1. Mohammad Ali JAFARI [Commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, born September 1, 1957]
2. Sadeq MAHSOULI [Minister of Welfare and Social Security, former Minister of the Interior and Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces for Law Enforcement, born 1959]
3. Qolam-Hossein MOHSENI-EJEI [Prosecutor-General of Iran, former Minister of Intelligence, born circa 1956]
4. Saeed MORTAZAVI [Head of Iranian Anti-Smuggling Task Force, former Prosecutor-General of Tehran, born 1967]
5. Heydar MOSLEHI [Minister of Intelligence, born 1956]
6. Mostafa Mohammad NAJJAR [Minister of the Interior and Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces for Law Enforcement, born 1956]
7. Ahmad-Reza RADAN [Deputy Chief of the National Police, born 1963 or 1964]
8. Hossein TAEB [Deputy Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Commander for Intelligence, former Commander of the Basij Forces, born 1963]

Appendix B to Part 562—Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019

Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019
Imposing Sanctions With Respect to the Iron, Steel, Aluminum, and Copper Sectors of Iran
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that: It remains the policy of the United States to deny Iran all paths to both a nuclear weapon and intercontinental ballistic missiles, and to counter the totality of Iran's malign influence in the Middle East. It is also the policy of the United States to deny the Iranian government revenue, including revenue derived from the export of products from Iran's iron, steel, aluminum, and copper sectors, that may be used to provide funding and support for the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, terrorist groups and networks, campaigns of regional aggression, and military expansion.
In light of these findings and in order to take further steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 of March 15, 1995, and to supplement the authorities provided in the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (subtitle D of title XII of Public Law 112-239), I hereby order:
Section 1. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be operating in the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sector of Iran, or to be a person that owns, controls, or operates an entity that is part of the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sector of Iran;
(ii) to have knowingly engaged, on or after the date of this order, in a significant transaction for the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
(iii) to have knowingly engaged, on or after the date of this order, in a significant transaction for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran;
(iv) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; or
(v) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
(b) The prohibitions in this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution has, on or after the date of this order, knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction:
Sec. 2.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution has, on or after the date of this order, knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction:
(i) For the sale, supply, or transfer to Iran of significant goods or services used in connection with the iron, steel, aluminum, or copper sectors of Iran;
(ii) for the purchase, acquisition, sale, transport, or marketing of iron, iron products, aluminum, aluminum products, steel, steel products, copper, or copper products from Iran; or
(iii) for or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) With respect to any foreign financial institution determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with this section to meet any of the criteria set forth in subsection (a)(i) through (a)(iii) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or payable-through account by such foreign financial institution.
(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 3. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by this section.
Sec. 3.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by this section.
Sec. 4. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
Sec. 4.
The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a) of that section; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 5. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is therefore hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 5.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is therefore hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 6. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 7. Nothing in this order shall apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 7.
Nothing in this order shall apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programmes, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 8. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 8.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “foreign financial institution” means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes, but is not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by the Secretary of the Treasury;
(c) the term “Government of Iran” includes the Government of Iran, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Iran, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Iran;
(d) the term “Iran” means the Government of Iran and the territory of Iran and any other territory or marine area, including the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, over which the Government of Iran claims sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction, provided that the Government of Iran exercises partial or total de facto control over the area or derives a benefit from economic activity in the area pursuant to international arrangements;
(e) the term “knowingly,” with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result;
(f) the term “person” means an individual or entity; and
(g) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 9. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12957, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 11. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 11
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 12. The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the 1981 Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.
Sec. 12.
The measures taken pursuant to this order are in response to actions of the Government of Iran occurring after the conclusion of the 1981 Algiers Accords, and are intended solely as a response to those later actions.
Donald J. Trump
THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 8, 2019.
[[84 FR 38550, Aug. 7, 2019]]

PART 566—HIZBALLAH FINANCIAL SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-272, 132 Stat. 4144 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note).]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-272, 132 Stat. 4144 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
[Source:81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 566.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 566.201   Prohibitions or strict conditions with respect to correspondent or payable-through accounts of certain foreign financial institutions identified by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Upon a determination by the Secretary of the Treasury that a foreign financial institution knowingly engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, impose one or more strict conditions on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution, or, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, prohibit a U.S. financial institution from opening or maintaining a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution.
(a) A foreign financial institution engages in an activity described in this paragraph if, in any location or currency, the foreign financial institution, on or after December 18, 2015, knowingly:
(1) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions for Hizballah;
(2) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions of a person identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List), the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA) for acting on behalf of or at the direction of, or being owned or controlled by, Hizballah;
et seq.
) (IEEPA) for acting on behalf of or at the direction of, or being owned or controlled by, Hizballah;
Note to paragraph (
a
)(2):
The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA for acting on behalf of or at the direction of or being owned or controlled by Hizballah are identified by a special reference to Hizballah at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 594, and identified on the SDN List, will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and descriptive text [“Subject to secondary sanctions pursuant to the Hizballah Financial Sanctions Regulations”].
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to IEEPA for acting on behalf of or at the direction of or being owned or controlled by Hizballah are identified by a special reference to Hizballah at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 594, and identified on the SDN List, will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and descriptive text [“Subject to secondary sanctions pursuant to the Hizballah Financial Sanctions Regulations”].
(3) Engages in money laundering to carry out an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section; or
(4) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions or provides significant financial services to carry out an activity described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section.
(b) The Secretary of the Treasury may impose one or more strict conditions on the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section. Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account or payable-through account in the United States in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to this paragraph. Such conditions may include the following:
(1) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(2) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(3) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(4) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(5) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.
Note to paragraph (
b
):
The name of the foreign financial institution, together with the actual strict condition(s) to be imposed, will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
.
(c) If the Secretary of the Treasury does not impose one or more strict conditions, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, on the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution that the Secretary determines engages in one or more of the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary may prohibit the opening or maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for that foreign financial institution. Except as otherwise authorized pursuant to this part, a U.S. financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening or maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to this paragraph.
Note to paragraph (
c
):
The names of foreign financial institutions for which the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited will be listed on the CAPTA List on OFAC's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
.
[[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019]]

§ 566.202   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 566.203   Exempt transactions.

Sanctions will not be imposed under § 566.201 with respect to:
(a) Any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, or national security activities of the United States.
(b) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United States, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, or the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or any other United States international agreement.
[[84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 566.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 566.301   Agent.

The term agent includes an entity established by a person for purposes of conducting transactions on behalf of the person in order to conceal the identity of the person.
agent
includes an entity established by a person for purposes of conducting transactions on behalf of the person in order to conceal the identity of the person.

§ 566.302   Correspondent account.

The term correspondent account means an account established to receive deposits from, make payments on behalf of, or handle other financial transactions related to a foreign financial institution.
correspondent account
means an account established to receive deposits from, make payments on behalf of, or handle other financial transactions related to a foreign financial institution.

§ 566.303   Covered financial institution.

The term covered financial institution means a broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to be registered, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; or a mutual fund.
covered financial institution
means a broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to be registered, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; or a mutual fund.

§ 566.304   Effective date.

The effective date refers to the effective date of a prohibition or strict condition imposed pursuant to § 566.201 on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution and is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition.
effective date
refers to the effective date of a prohibition or strict condition imposed pursuant to § 566.201 on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution and is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition.

§ 566.305   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 566.306   Financial institution.

The term financial institution means:
financial institution
means:
(a) An insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h));
(b) A commercial bank or trust company;
(c) A private banker;
(d) An agency or branch of a foreign bank in the United States;
(e) Any credit union;
(f) A thrift institution;
(g) A broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.);
et seq.
);
(h) A broker or dealer in securities or commodities;
(i) An investment banker or investment company;
(j) A currency exchange;
(k) An issuer, redeemer, or cashier of travelers' checks, checks, money orders, or similar instruments;
(l) An insurance company;
(m) A dealer in precious metals, stones, or jewels;
(n) A loan or finance company;
(o) A licensed sender of money or any other person who engages as a business in the transmission of funds including any person who engages as a business in an informal money transfer system or any network of people who engage as a business in facilitating the transfer of money domestically or internationally outside of the conventional financial institutions system;
(p) A business engaged in vehicle sales, including automobile, airplane, and boat sales;
(q) Any business or agency which engages in any activity which the Secretary of the Treasury determines, by regulation, to be an activity which is similar to, related to, or a substitute for any activity in which any business described in this paragraph is authorized to engage; or
(r) Any other business designated by the Secretary whose cash transactions have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory matters.

§ 566.307   Financial services.

The term financial services includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.
financial services
includes loans, transfers, accounts, insurance, investments, securities, guarantees, foreign exchange, letters of credit, and commodity futures or options.

§ 566.308   Financial transaction.

The term financial transaction means any transfer of value involving a financial institution.
financial transaction
means any transfer of value involving a financial institution.

§ 566.309   Foreign financial institution.

(a) The term foreign financial institution means:
foreign financial institution
means:
(1) A foreign bank;
(2) Any branch or office located outside the United States of a covered financial institution, as defined in § 566.303;
(3) Any other person organized under foreign law (other than a branch or office of such person in the United States) that, if it were located in the United States, would be a covered financial institution, as defined in § 566.303; and
(4) Any person organized under foreign law (other than a branch or office of such person in the United States) that is engaged in the business of, and is readily identifiable as, a dealer in foreign exchange or a money transmitter.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(4) of this section, a person is not “engaged in the business” of a dealer in foreign exchange or a money transmitter if such transactions are merely incidental to the person's business.
[[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]]

§ 566.310   HIFPA.

The term HIFPA means the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, Public Law 114-102.
HIFPA
means the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, Public Law 114-102.

§ 566.311   Hizballah.

The term Hizballah means:
Hizballah
means:
(a) The entity known as Hizballah and designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); or
(b) Any person:
(1) The property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
et seq.
); and
(2) Who is identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) maintained by OFAC as an agent, instrumentality, or affiliate of Hizballah.
Note to § 566.311:
The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List that fall within the definition of Hizballah set forth in this section are identified by a special reference to Hizballah at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 594, and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and descriptive text [“Subject to secondary sanctions pursuant to the Hizballah Financial Sanctions Regulations”].
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List that fall within the definition of Hizballah set forth in this section are identified by a special reference to Hizballah at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 594, and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and descriptive text [“Subject to secondary sanctions pursuant to the Hizballah Financial Sanctions Regulations”].

§ 566.312   Knowingly.

The term knowingly, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

§ 566.313   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note to § 566.313:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 566.314   Money laundering.

The term money laundering includes the movement of illicit cash or cash equivalent proceeds into, out of, or through a country, or into, out of, or through a financial institution.
money laundering
includes the movement of illicit cash or cash equivalent proceeds into, out of, or through a country, or into, out of, or through a financial institution.

§ 566.315   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 566.316   Payable-through account.

The term payable-through account means an account, including a transaction account as defined in § 566.317, opened at a depository institution by a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
payable-through account
means an account, including a transaction account as defined in § 566.317, opened at a depository institution by a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.

§ 566.317   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 566.318   Transaction account.

The term transaction account means a deposit or account on which the depositor or account holder is permitted to make withdrawals by negotiable or transferable instrument, payment orders of withdrawal, telephone transfers, or other similar items for the purpose of making payments or transfers to third persons or others. Such term includes demand deposits, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, savings deposits subject to automatic transfers, and share draft accounts.
transaction account
means a deposit or account on which the depositor or account holder is permitted to make withdrawals by negotiable or transferable instrument, payment orders of withdrawal, telephone transfers, or other similar items for the purpose of making payments or transfers to third persons or others. Such term includes demand deposits, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, savings deposits subject to automatic transfers, and share draft accounts.

§ 566.319   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 566.320   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means a financial institution located in or organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States.
U.S. financial institution
means a financial institution located in or organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 566.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 566.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulations, ruling, order, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, order, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 566.403   Facilitation of certain efforts, activities, or transactions by foreign financial institutions.

For purposes of § 566.201, the term facilitate used with respect to certain efforts, activities, or transactions refers to the provision of assistance by a foreign financial institution for those efforts, activities, or transactions, including the provision of currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; purchasing; selling; transporting; swapping; brokering; financing; approving; guaranteeing; the provision of other services of any kind; the provision of personnel; or the provision of software, technology, or goods of any kind.
facilitate
used with respect to certain efforts, activities, or transactions refers to the provision of assistance by a foreign financial institution for those efforts, activities, or transactions, including the provision of currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; purchasing; selling; transporting; swapping; brokering; financing; approving; guaranteeing; the provision of other services of any kind; the provision of personnel; or the provision of software, technology, or goods of any kind.

§ 566.404   Significant transactions; significant financial services.

In determining, for purposes of paragraph (a) of § 566.201, whether a transaction(s) or financial service(s) is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Secretary may consider some or all of the following factors:
(a) Size, number, and frequency. The size, number, and frequency of transaction(s) or financial service(s) performed over a period of time, including whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) is increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of transaction(s) or financial service(s) performed over a period of time, including whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) is increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b) Nature. The nature of the transaction(s) or financial service(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s) or financial service(s).
Nature.
The nature of the transaction(s) or financial service(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s) or financial service(s).
(c) Level of awareness; pattern of conduct. (1) Whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
Level of awareness; pattern of conduct.
(1) Whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
(2) Whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d) Nexus. The proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) or providing the financial service(s) and Hizballah or a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(2) of § 566.201. For example, a transaction or financial service in which a foreign financial institution provides brokerage or clearing services to, or maintains an account or makes payments for, Hizballah or such a blocked person generally would be of greater significance than a transaction or financial service a foreign financial institution conducts for or provides to Hizballah or such a blocked person indirectly or in a tertiary relationship.
Nexus.
The proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) or providing the financial service(s) and Hizballah or a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(2) of § 566.201. For example, a transaction or financial service in which a foreign financial institution provides brokerage or clearing services to, or maintains an account or makes payments for, Hizballah or such a blocked person generally would be of greater significance than a transaction or financial service a foreign financial institution conducts for or provides to Hizballah or such a blocked person indirectly or in a tertiary relationship.
(e) Impact. The impact of the transaction(s) or financial service(s) on the objectives of the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, including:
Impact.
The impact of the transaction(s) or financial service(s) on the objectives of the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, including:
(1) The economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on Hizballah or a blocked person described in paragraph (a)(2) of § 566.201; and
(2) Whether and how the transaction(s) or financial service(s) contributes to support for international terrorism.
(f) Deceptive practices. Whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s) or financial service(s) to evade sanctions.
Deceptive practices.
Whether the transaction(s) or financial service(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s) or financial service(s) to evade sanctions.
(g) Other relevant factors. Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s) or financial service(s).
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Secretary deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s) or financial service(s).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 566.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Counter Terrorism Sanctions page on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 566.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction or financial service effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction or financial service prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction or financial services prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction or financial service otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency.

§ 566.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 566.504   Transactions related to closing a correspondent or payable-through account.

(a) During the 10-day period beginning on the effective date of the prohibition in

§ 566.201(c) on the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution listed on the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:
(1) Process only those transactions through the account, or permit the foreign financial institution to execute only those transactions through the account, that are for the purpose of, and necessary for, closing the account; and
(2) Transfer the funds remaining in the correspondent account or the payable-through account to an account of the foreign financial institution located outside of the United States and close the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
(b) A report must be filed with OFAC within 30 days of the closure of an account, providing full details on the closing of each correspondent account or payable-through account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List, maintained on OFAC's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac). Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. Reports should be addressed to the attention of the Compliance Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
). Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. Reports should be addressed to the attention of the Compliance Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions outside the scope or time period authorized in paragraph (a) by a U.S. financial institution with respect to a correspondent account or a payable-through account maintained by the U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List. License applications should be filed in conformance with § 501.801 of the Reporting, Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List.
Note to § 566.504:
This section does not authorize a U.S. financial institution to unblock property or interests in property, or to engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property, blocked pursuant to any other part of this chapter, in the process of closing a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name has been added to the CAPTA List, maintained on OFAC's Web site (www.treasury.gov/ofac). See § 566.101.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
).
See
§ 566.101.
[[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019; 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 566.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Finding of Violation


§ 566.701   Penalties.

(a) Civil penalties. As set forth in section 102(a)(3) of the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note)), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition set forth in or issued pursuant to this part.
Civil penalties.
As set forth in section 102(a)(3) of the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note)), a civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition set forth in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(c) Criminal penalties. As set forth in section 102(a)(3) of HIFPA, a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition set forth in or issued pursuant to this part shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
Criminal penalties.
As set forth in section 102(a)(3) of HIFPA, a person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition set forth in or issued pursuant to this part shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(d) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(e) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that “whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry” shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 566.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth below. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth below. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussions may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussions may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the PrePenalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the PrePenalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[81 FR 22186, Apr. 15, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]]

§ 566.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
[[84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]]

§ 566.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 566.705   Finding of violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and,
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; Default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that the alleged violation did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that the alleged violation did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[84 FR 35310, July 23, 2019]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 566.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 566.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note)) may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority to so act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 566.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. The information collection in § 566.504(b) has been approved by OMB and assigned control number 1505-0255. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
[[84 FR 35311, July 23, 2019]]

PART 569—PROMOTING ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ASSAD AND REGIONAL STABILIZATION SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended); 22 U.S.C. 8791 et seq. (Pub. L. 112-158, Title VII, sec. 705, 126 Stat. 1268); 22 U.S.C. 8791 note (Pub. L. 116-92, Div. F, Title LXXIV, 133 Stat. 2291); 22 U.S.C. 9528(a); 50 U.S.C. 1701 note (Pub. L. 118-50, div. P, 138 Stat. 992); E.O. 13606, 77 FR 24571, 3 CFR 2012 Comp., p. 243, E.O. 13894, 84 FR 55851, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 382, E.O. 14142, 90 FR 6709, E.O. 14312, 90 FR 29395.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended); 22 U.S.C. 8791
et seq.
(Pub. L. 112-158, Title VII, sec. 705, 126 Stat. 1268); 22 U.S.C. 8791 note (Pub. L. 116-92, Div. F, Title LXXIV, 133 Stat. 2291); 22 U.S.C. 9528(a); 50 U.S.C. 1701 note (Pub. L. 118-50, div. P, 138 Stat. 992); E.O. 13606, 77 FR 24571, 3 CFR 2012 Comp., p. 243, E.O. 13894, 84 FR 55851, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 382, E.O. 14142, 90 FR 6709, E.O. 14312, 90 FR 29395.
[Source:85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 569.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 569.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and statements of licensing policy.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 569.201   Prohibited transactions.

All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13894 of October 14, 2019 (E.O. 13894), or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 569.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13894, E.O. 13606, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O 13894, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13894: “[PAARSSR-EO13894]”; for E.O. 13606: “[HRIT-SY]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in 13894: using the identifier formulation “[PAARSSR-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019 (“Caesar Act”), whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[SYRIA-CAESAR].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions pursuant to the Caesar Act, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will be updated to include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 569.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13894: “[PAARSSR-EO13894]”; for E.O. 13606: “[HRIT-SY]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in 13894: using the identifier formulation “[PAARSSR-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019 (“Caesar Act”), whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[SYRIA-CAESAR].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions pursuant to the Caesar Act, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will be updated to include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 569.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 569.201:
Section 203 of the of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13894: “[BPI-PAARSSR-EO13894]”; for E.O. 13606: “[BPI-HRIT-SY]”; for the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019: “[BPI-CAESAR]”; or for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-PAARSSR-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13894: “[BPI-PAARSSR-EO13894]”; for E.O. 13606: “[BPI-HRIT-SY]”; for the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act of 2019: “[BPI-CAESAR]”; or for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-PAARSSR-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 569.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 569.201:
The names of persons determined by the Secretary of State to meet the criteria for the imposition of non-blocking sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, will be incorporated into a data file containing OFAC's Consolidated Non-SDN data and will also be provided in a human readable format on the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/cons. These listings will include specific information on the sanctions imposed on such persons pursuant to E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894. However, for any persons determined to meet the criteria for the imposition of blocking sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, where the Secretary of State chooses to impose the blocking sanctions described in E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, such persons' names will instead be incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[PAARSSR-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The names of persons determined to meet the criteria for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, will be published in the Federal Register along with the applicable sanctions that have been imposed on such persons under that section.
www.treasury.gov/cons.
These listings will include specific information on the sanctions imposed on such persons pursuant to E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894. However, for any persons determined to meet the criteria for the imposition of blocking sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, where the Secretary of State chooses to impose the blocking sanctions described in E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, such persons' names will instead be incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[PAARSSR-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The names of persons determined to meet the criteria for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13894, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13894, will be published in the
Federal Register
along with the applicable sanctions that have been imposed on such persons under that section.
Note 5 to § 569.201:
The names of foreign financial institutions for which the opening or maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited or for which the maintenance of a correspondent account or payable-through account is subject to one or more strict conditions pursuant to section 3 of E.O. 13894, or pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13984, will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on OFAC's website (www.treasury.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register along with the applicable prohibition or strict condition(s) that have been imposed on such foreign financial institutions under that section.
www.treasury.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
along with the applicable prohibition or strict condition(s) that have been imposed on such foreign financial institutions under that section.
Note 6 to § 569.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[[85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 75963, Sept. 17, 2024; 90 FR 46058, Sept. 25, 2025]]

§ 569.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 569.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 569.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 569.201.

§ 569.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 569.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 569.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 569.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 569.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 569.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 569.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 569.205   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information or informational materials. (1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 569.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 569.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 are prohibited.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 569.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 569.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 569.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 569.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 569.301:
See § 569.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201.
See
§ 569.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201.

§ 569.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 569.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 569.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 569.305   Information or informational materials.

(a)(1) The term information or informational materials includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(2) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 569.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 569.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 569.307:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 569.308   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 569.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 569.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 569.311   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 569.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 569.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 569.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 569.401   [Reserved]


§ 569.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 569.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 569.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 569.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 569.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 569.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 569.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 569.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 569.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Promoting Accountability for Assad and Regional Stabilization Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
[[85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, as amended at 90 FR 46058, Sept. 25, 2025]]

§ 569.502   [Reserved]


§ 569.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 569.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 569.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 569.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 569.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 569.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 569.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 569.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 569.404.
See
§ 569.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 569.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 569.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 569.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 569.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 569.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 569.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 569.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 103645, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 569.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 569.509   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 569.510   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies;
(5) The Arab Monetary Fund and the Islamic Development Bank; and
(6) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 569.511   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 569.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78495, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 569.512   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 569.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78496, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 569.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 569.701   Penalties and Findings of Violation.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 569.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 569.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13894 of October 14, 2019 (E.O. 13894), and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum of October 9, 2012: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012; the Presidential Memorandum of September 29, 2017: Memorandum on Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities Under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, and the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014; the Presidential Memorandum of March 31, 2020: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities Under the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020; or the Presidential Memorandum of September 13, 2024: Delegation of Certain Sanctions-Related Authorities Under Public Law 118-50, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[85 FR 34510, June 5, 2020, as amended at 90 FR 46058, Sept. 25, 2025]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 569.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 569—Executive Order 13894, as Further Amended Executive Order 13894 of October 14, 2019, as Further Amended by Executive Order 14142 of January 15, 2025 and Executive Order 14312 of June 30, 2025 Blocking Property and Suspending Entry of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in Syria

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the situation in and in relation to Syria undermines the campaign to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, endangers civilians, and further threatens to undermine the peace, security, and stability in the region, and thereby constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby determine and order:
Section 1. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, any of the following in or in relation to Syria:
(1) actions or policies that further threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of Syria; or
(2) the commission of serious human rights abuse;
(B) to be a former government official of the former regime of Bashar al-Assad or a person who acted for or on behalf of such an official;
(C) to have engaged in, or attempted to engage in, activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially contributing to, the illicit production and international illicit proliferation of captagon;
(D) to be responsible for or complicit in, to have directly or indirectly engaged in, or to be responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, instances in which a United States national ((i) as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22) or 8 U.S.C. 1408, or (ii) a lawful permanent resident with significant ties to the United States) went missing in Syria during the former regime of Bashar al-Assad;
(E) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of,
(1) the former regime of Bashar al-Assad;
(2) any activity described in subsections (a)(i)(A)-(a)(i)(D) of this section; or
(3) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
(F) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(G) to be an adult family member of a person designated under subsections (a)(i)(A)-(a)(i)(D) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2. (a) The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and other officials of the United States Government as appropriate, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign person any of the sanctions described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, upon determining that the person, on or after the date of this order:
Sec. 2.
(a) The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and other officials of the United States Government as appropriate, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign person any of the sanctions described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, upon determining that the person, on or after the date of this order:
(i) is responsible for or complicit in, has directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, or financed the obstruction, disruption, or prevention of efforts to promote a Syria that is stable, unified, and at peace with itself and its neighbors, including:
(A) the convening and conduct of a credible and inclusive Syrian-led constitutional process;
(B) the preparation for and conduct of supervised elections, pursuant to the new constitution, that are free and fair and to the highest international standards of transparency and accountability; or
(C) the development of a Syrian government that is representative and reflects the will of the Syrian people;
(ii) is an adult family member of a person designated under subsection (a)(i) of this section; or
(iii) is responsible for or complicit in, or has directly or indirectly engaged in, or attempted to engage in, the expropriation of property, including real property, for personal gain or political purposes in Syria.
(b) When the Secretary of State, in accordance with the terms of subsection (a) of this section, has determined that a person meets any of the criteria described in that subsection and has selected one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the heads of relevant departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of State, as appropriate, shall ensure that the following actions are taken where necessary to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of State:
(i) agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person; or
(ii) the Secretary of State shall direct the denial of a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, any alien that the Secretary of State determines is a corporate officer or principal of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, a sanctioned person.
(c) When the Secretary of State, in accordance with the terms of subsection (a) of this section, has determined that a person meets any of the criteria described in that subsection and has selected one or more of the sanctions set forth below to impose on that person, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall take the following actions where necessary to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of State:
(i) prohibit any United States financial institution that is a U.S. person from making loans or providing credits to the sanctioned person totaling more than $10,000,000 in any 12-month period, unless such person is engaged in activities to relieve human suffering and the loans or credits are provided for such activities;
(ii) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;
(iii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between banking institutions or by, through, or to any banking institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;
(iv) block all property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the sanctioned person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;
(v) prohibit any United States person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the sanctioned person;
(vi) restrict or prohibit imports of goods, technology, or services, directly or indirectly, into the United States from the sanctioned person; or
(vii) impose on the principal executive officer or officers, or persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities, of the sanctioned person the sanctions described in subsections (c)(i)-(c)(vi) of this section, as selected by the Secretary of State.
(d) The prohibitions in subsections (b) and (c) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 3. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction for or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 3.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to impose on a foreign financial institution the sanctions described in subsection (b) of this section upon determining that the foreign financial institution knowingly conducted or facilitated any significant financial transaction for or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order.
(b) With respect to any foreign financial institution determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in accordance with this section, to meet the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by such foreign financial institution.
(c) The prohibitions in subsection (b) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 4. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) or 2(a) of this order, or aliens for which the sanctions under subsection 2(b)(ii) have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the entry of the person into the United States would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of State shall consult the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security. Such persons shall be treated in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693.
Sec. 4.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) or 2(a) of this order, or aliens for which the sanctions under subsection 2(b)(ii) have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the entry of the person into the United States would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives. In exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of State shall consult the Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security. Such persons shall be treated in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility for implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693.
Sec. 5. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 5.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 6. The prohibitions in sections 1 and 2 of this order include:
Sec. 6.
The prohibitions in sections 1 and 2 of this order include:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 7. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 7.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 8. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 8.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “foreign financial institution” means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. The term includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money service businesses, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by the Secretary of the Treasury;
(c) the term “knowingly,” with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result;
(d) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(e) the term “United States person” or “U.S. person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States; and
Sec. 9. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.
Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)), and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 11.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)), and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 12.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
[[90 FR 46059, Sept. 25, 2025]]

PART 570—LIBYAN SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13566, 76 FR 11315, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 222; E.O. 13726, 81 FR 23559, 3 CFR, 2016 Comp., p. 454.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13566, 76 FR 11315, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 222; E.O. 13726, 81 FR 23559, 3 CFR, 2016 Comp., p. 454.
[Source:87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 570.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 570.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Government of Libya. The Government of Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and the Central Bank of Libya;
Government of Libya.
The Government of Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and the Central Bank of Libya;
(2) E.O. 13566 Annex. The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13566 of February 25, 2011;
E.O. 13566 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13566 of February 25, 2011;
(3) E.O. 13566. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13566.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be a senior official of the Government of Libya;
(ii) To be a child of Colonel Muammar Qadhafi;
(iii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, or to have participated in, the commission of human rights abuses related to political repression in Libya;
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technical support for, or goods or services in support of the activities described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or this paragraph (a)(3);
(v) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or this paragraph (a)(3); or
(vi) To be a spouse or dependent child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or this paragraph (a)(3);
(4) E.O. 13726. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13726.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Libya, including through the supply of arms or related materiel;
(B) Actions or policies that obstruct, undermine, delay, or impede, or pose a significant risk of obstructing, undermining, delaying, or impeding, the adoption of or political transition to a Government of National Accord or a successor government;
(C) Actions that may lead to or result in the misappropriation of state assets of Libya; or
(D) Threatening or coercing Libyan state financial institutions or the Libyan National Oil Company;
(ii) To be planning, directing, or committing, or to have planned, directed, or committed, attacks against any Libyan state facility or installation (including oil facilities), against any air, land, or sea port in Libya, or against any foreign mission in Libya;
(iii) To be involved in, or to have been involved in, the targeting of civilians through the commission of acts of violence, abduction, forced displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or through conduct that would constitute a serious abuse or violation of human rights or a violation of international humanitarian law;
(iv) To be involved in, or to have been involved in, the illicit exploitation of crude oil or any other natural resources in Libya, including the illicit production, refining, brokering, sale, purchase, or export of Libyan oil;
(v) To be a leader of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section;
(vi) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4); or
(vii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after April 19, 2016 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13566 of February 25, 2011 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 570.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13566, E.O. 13726, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the identifier for E.O. 13566: “[LIBYA2]”; for E.O. 13726: “[LIBYA3]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13566: using the identifier formulation “[LIBYA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 570.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section. The property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term Government of Libya and are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are blocked regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the Federal Register or incorporated into the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the identifier for E.O. 13566: “[LIBYA2]”; for E.O. 13726: “[LIBYA3]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13566: using the identifier formulation “[LIBYA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 570.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section. The property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term Government of Libya and are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are blocked regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.
Note 2 to § 570.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section may be published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13566: “[BPI-LIBYA2]”; for E.O. 13726: “[BPI-LIBYA3]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13566: “[BPI-LIBYA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section may be published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13566: “[BPI-LIBYA2]”; for E.O. 13726: “[BPI-LIBYA3]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13566: “[BPI-LIBYA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 570.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 570.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75963, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 570.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 570.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 570.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 570.201.

§ 570.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 570.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 570.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 570.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 570.201 not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 570.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 570.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 570.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 570.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 570.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) United Nations Participation Act. The exemptions cited in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions cited in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
).
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on both OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (see https://www.un.org), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on both the SDN List and the UN List.
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (UN List) (
see https://www.un.org
), as well as persons listed on the SDN List for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, persons listed on
both
the SDN List and the UN List.
(b) International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 570.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 570.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 570.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 570.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 570.301:
See § 570.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
See
§ 570.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.

§ 570.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to the Government of Libya or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1) or (2), 8:00 p.m. eastern standard time, February 25, 2011; and
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 570.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 570.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 570.304   Financial, material, logistical, or technical support; financial, material, logistical, or technological support.

The terms financial, material, logistical, or technical support, and financial, material, logistical, or technological support, as used, respectively, in § 570.201(a)(3)(iv) and § 570.201(a)(4)(vi), mean any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 570.305   Government of Libya.

The term Government of Libya includes:
Government of Libya
includes:
(a) The state and the Government of the Libya, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, and the Central Bank of Libya;
(b) Any entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the foregoing, including any corporation, partnership, association, or other entity in which the Government of Libya owns a 50 percent or greater interest or a controlling interest, and any entity which is otherwise controlled by that government;
(c) Any person that is, or has been, since the effective date, acting or purporting to act, directly or indirectly, for or on behalf of any of the foregoing; and
(d) Any other person determined by OFAC to be included within paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
Note 1 to § 570.305.
The names of persons that OFAC has determined fall within this definition are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[LIBYA2].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. However, the property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term Government of Libya and are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 are blocked regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the Federal Register or incorporated into the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[LIBYA2].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
However, the property and interests in property of persons who meet the definition of the term
Government of Libya
and are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 are blocked regardless of whether the names of such persons are published in the
Federal Register
or incorporated into the SDN List.
Note 2 to § 570.305:
Section 501.807 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of OFAC's determination that they fall within the definition of the term Government of Libya.
Government of Libya.

§ 570.306   Government of National Accord or a successor government.

The term Government of National Accord or a successor government means:
Government of National Accord or a successor government
means:
(a) A Government of National Accord formed pursuant to the terms of the Libyan Political Agreement signed in Skhirat, Morocco, on December 17, 2015, or any amendments thereto;
(b) A governmental authority formed under the Libyan Constitution pursuant to the terms of the Libyan Political Agreement signed in Skhirat, Morocco, on December 17, 2015, or any amendments thereto;
(c) Any subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the foregoing, and any partnership, association, corporation, or other organization owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by, or acting for or on behalf of, the foregoing; or
(d) Any other person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be included within paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

§ 570.307   [Reserved]


§ 570.308   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 570.309   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 570.309:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 570.310   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 570.311   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 570.312   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 570.313   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 570.314   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 570.315   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 570.316   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 570.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 570.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 570.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 570.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 570.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 570.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.

§ 570.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 570.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 570.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
Note 1 to § 570.405:
See §§ 570.507 and 570.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 570.507 and 570.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 570.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 570.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 570.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 570.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 570.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 570.407:
See also § 570.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 570.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 570.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 570.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 570.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.

§ 570.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 570.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 570.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

(a) Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
(b) This section, which deals with the consequences of ownership of entities, in no way limits the definition of the Government of Libya in § 570.305, which includes within its definition other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked but who are not on the SDN List.

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 570.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Libya sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.

§ 570.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 570.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 570.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 570.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 570.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 570.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 570.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 570.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 570.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 570.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.

§ 570.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 570.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 570.404.
See
§ 570.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 570.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 570.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 570.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 570.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 570.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 570.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103645, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 570.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 570.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 570.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations.

§ 570.512   Property of the Government of Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and the Central Bank of Libya.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, as of December 16, 2011, all property and interests in property of the Government of Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities, and the Central Bank of Libya blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1) are unblocked.
(b) All funds, including cash, securities, bank accounts, and investment accounts, and precious metals of the Libyan Investment Authority (LIA) and entities owned or controlled by the LIA blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1), as of September 19, 2011, remain blocked.

§ 570.513   Normal operations of investment funds in which there is a blocked non-controlling, minority interest of the Government of Libya.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, U.S. persons are authorized to continue the normal operations of an investment fund that is organized, located, managed, or administered in the United States in which any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1), (2), or (3) has both a non-controlling and a minority interest, provided that the investment fund is not blocked pursuant to any other paragraph of § 570.201.
(b) The authorization in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the following conditions:
(1) Any payment or transfer of funds, securities, or other assets in the possession or control of a U.S. person to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201 may only be directed or made into a blocked account at a financial institution in the United States in the name of the blocked person.
(2) Transfers of funds, securities, or other assets by a U.S. person between blocked accounts created or funded pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section in its branches or offices are authorized provided that:
(i) No transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States; and
(ii) A transfer from a blocked account may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name.
(3) No immediate financial or economic benefit is accessible or made available to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
(4) U.S. persons shall not:
(i) Make any loans to, or on behalf of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201; or
(ii) Debit a blocked account for repayment of a loan or as setoff for a debt owed by any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 570.201.
Note 1 to § 570.513:
Normal operations include: investment management functions; the purchase and disposition of portfolio investments; the custody of portfolio investments; the making of payments owed by the investment fund to its managers, other service providers, directors, government regulators, tax authorities, or investors whose property and interests in property are not blocked; or the receipt of funds, securities, or other assets.

§ 570.514   Transactions with, and property and interests in property of, the Libyan National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries.

(a) As of September 19, 2011, all transactions involving the Libyan National Oil Corporation (NOC) or entities owned or controlled by the NOC are authorized, provided that such transactions do not involve any other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) As of September 19, 2011, all property and interests in property of the NOC and entities owned or controlled by the NOC are unblocked.
(c) Within 10 business days of the release of any blocked funds, including cash and securities, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, a report must be filed with the Compliance Division of the Office of Foreign Assets Control via email to OFACreport@treasury.gov. For each amount released, the report must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
OFACreport@treasury.gov.
For each amount released, the report must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 570.515   Funds of the General National Maritime Transport Company unblocked.

(a) As of November 18, 2011, all funds, including cash, securities, bank accounts, and investment accounts, and precious metals of the General National Maritime Transport Company blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1) or (3) are unblocked.
(b) Within 10 business days of the release of any blocked funds or precious metals pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a report must be filed with the Compliance Division of the Office of Foreign Assets Control via email to OFACreport@treasury.gov. For each amount released, the report must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
OFACreport@treasury.gov.
For each amount released, the report must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 570.516   Property and interests in property of Arab Turkish Bank and North African International Bank unblocked.

(a) As of December 1, 2011, all property and interests in property of Arab Turkish Bank and North African International Bank blocked pursuant to § 570.201(a)(1) or (3) are unblocked.
(b) Within 10 business days of the release of any blocked funds, including cash, securities, bank accounts, and investment accounts, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a report must be filed with the Compliance Division of the Office of Foreign Assets Control via email to OFACreport@treasury.gov. For each amount released, the report must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
OFACreport@treasury.gov.
For each amount released, the report must include a copy of the related initial blocking report and indicate the date that the funds were released and the amount released.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 570.517   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 570.517.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78496, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 570.518   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 570.518.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78497, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 570.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 570.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5(b) of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to section 5(a) of the UNPA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 and, if a natural person, may also be imprisoned for not more than 20 years.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1), (3), and (4) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 570.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 570.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 570.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 570.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 570.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 570.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13566 of February 25, 2011, E.O. 13726 of April 19, 2016, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 570.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 576—IRAQ STABILIZATION AND INSURGENCY SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13303, 68 FR 31931, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 227; E.O. 13315, 68 FR 52315, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 252; E.O. 13350, 69 FR 46055, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 196; E.O. 13364, 69 FR 70177, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 236; E.O. 13438, 72 FR 39719, 3 CFR, 2007 Comp., p. 224; E.O. 13668, 79 FR 31019, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 248.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13303, 68 FR 31931, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 227; E.O. 13315, 68 FR 52315, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 252; E.O. 13350, 69 FR 46055, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 196; E.O. 13364, 69 FR 70177, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 236; E.O. 13438, 72 FR 39719, 3 CFR, 2007 Comp., p. 224; E.O. 13668, 79 FR 31019, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 248.
[Source:75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 576.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note to § 576.101:
The Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 575, have been removed from 31 CFR chapter V.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 576.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of U.S. persons, including their overseas branches, of the former Iraqi regime or its state bodies, corporations, or agencies, or of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order 13315 of August 28, 2003, as amended by Executive Order 13350 of July 29, 2004; and
(2) Persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State,
(i) To be senior officials of the former Iraqi regime or their immediate family members; or
(ii) To be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any of the persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section; and
(3) Persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense,
(i) To have committed, or to pose a significant risk of committing, an act or acts of violence that have the purpose or effect of:
(A) Threatening the peace or stability of Iraq or the Government of Iraq; or
(B) Undermining efforts to promote economic reconstruction and political reform in Iraq or to provide humanitarian assistance to the Iraqi people;
(ii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, logistical, or technical support for, or goods or services in support of, such an act or acts of violence or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
) of § 576.201:
The names of persons listed in or designated pursuant to Executive Order 13315, as amended by Executive Order 13350, or designated pursuant to Executive Order 13438, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[IRAQ2]” (for persons designated pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section) or “[IRAQ3]” (for persons designated pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 576.412 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[IRAQ2]” (for persons designated pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section) or “[IRAQ3]” (for persons designated pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section). The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 576.412 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
) of § 576.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this paragraph (a), the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAQ2]” or “[BPI-IRAQ3].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-IRAQ2]” or “[BPI-IRAQ3].”
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) All property and interests in property blocked pursuant to Executive Order 12722 of August 2, 1990, or Executive Order 12724 of August 9, 1990, that continued to be blocked as of July 30, 2004, remain blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in, except as authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
Note to paragraph (
b
) of § 576.201:
In § 576.510 of this part, the Office of Foreign Assets Control authorizes all transactions involving property and interests in property blocked solely pursuant to Executive Orders 12722 or 12724. The Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 575, which implemented Executive Orders 12722 and 12724, have been removed from 31 CFR chapter V.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section include, but are not limited to, prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section.
(d) Unless otherwise authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes but is not limited to the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any such security on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such security may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the security.
(e) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply except to the extent transactions are authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 38543, June 30, 2011; 89 FR 75963, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 576.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b), unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of IEEPA, Executive Orders 13315, 13350, or 13438, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
) of § 576.202:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which, on or since the effective date, there existed an interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), or with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(b).

§ 576.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to this paragraph (b) may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 576.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) or § 576.201(b) may, in the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 576.205   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any transaction by any U.S. person or within the United States on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 576.207   Exemption for property controlled by the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners in Iraq.

The prohibitions in § 576.201(a)(1) and (a)(2) shall not apply to property and interests in property that come under the control of the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners present in Iraq and acting in their official capacity under the command or operational control of the commander of United States Central Command.

§ 576.208   Prohibited transactions related to certain Iraqi cultural property.

Unless licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part or otherwise consistent with U.S. law, the trade in or transfer of ownership or possession of Iraqi cultural property or other items of archeological, historical, cultural, rare scientific, and religious importance that were illegally removed, or for which a reasonable suspicion exists that they were illegally removed, from the Iraq National Museum, the National Library, and other locations in Iraq since August 6, 1990, is prohibited.
Note to § 576.208:
See § 576.411 for interpretive guidance on this section. Questions concerning whether particular Iraqi cultural property or other items are subject to this section should be directed to the Cultural Heritage Center, U.S. Department of State, tel. 202-632-6301, fax 202-632-6300, Web site http://culturalheritage.state.gov, e-mail culprop@state.gov.
See
§ 576.411 for interpretive guidance on this section. Questions concerning whether particular Iraqi cultural property or other items are subject to this section should be directed to the Cultural Heritage Center, U.S. Department of State, tel. 202-632-6301, fax 202-632-6300, Web site
http://culturalheritage.state.gov,
e-mail
culprop@state.gov.

§ 576.209   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in § 576.201(a)(3) do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in § 576.201(a)(3) do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information or informational materials. (1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 576.306, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions of § 576.201(a)(3).
Information or informational materials.
(1) The importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 576.306, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission, are exempt from the prohibitions of § 576.201(a)(3).
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation or authorize transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include, but are not limited to, payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and, with respect to information or informational materials imported from persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a)(3), payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt or authorize transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730-774, or to the exportation of goods, technology, or software for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) are prohibited.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in § 576.201(a)(3) do not apply to any transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in § 576.201(a)(3) do not apply to any transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 576.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean:
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean:
(a) (1) Any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 576.201(a) held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, or
(2) Any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 576.201(b), and
(b) With respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 576.301:
See § 576.412 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).
See
§ 576.412 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).
[[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 576.302   Development Fund for Iraq.

The term Development Fund for Iraq means the fund established on or about May 22, 2003, on the books of the Central Bank of Iraq, by the Administrator of the Coalition Provisional Authority responsible for the temporary governance of Iraq and all accounts held for the fund or for the Central Bank of Iraq in the name of the fund.
Development Fund for Iraq
means the fund established on or about May 22, 2003, on the books of the Central Bank of Iraq, by the Administrator of the Coalition Provisional Authority responsible for the temporary governance of Iraq and all accounts held for the fund or for the Central Bank of Iraq in the name of the fund.

§ 576.303   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a)(1):
(1) 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, August 29, 2003, for those persons listed on the Annex to Executive Order 13315; and
(2) 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, July 30, 2004, for those persons added to the Annex to Executive Order 13315 by Executive Order 13350;
(b) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a)(2) or (a)(3), the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked; and
(c) With respect to the transactions prohibited by § 576.201(b) or § 576.208, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, July 30, 2004.
[[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended 82 FR 61451, Dec. 28, 2017]]

§ 576.304   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup or other organization.

§ 576.305   Former Iraqi regime.

The term former Iraqi regime means the Saddam Hussein regime that governed Iraq until on or about May 1, 2003.
former Iraqi regime
means the Saddam Hussein regime that governed Iraq until on or about May 1, 2003.

§ 576.306   Information or informational materials.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term information or informational materials includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
Note to paragraph (
a
) of § 576.307:
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials,
with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to sections 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 576.307   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 576.309   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
Note to § 576.309:
See § 501.801 of this chapter for licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter for licensing procedures.

§ 576.310   Government of Iraq.

The term Government of Iraq means:
Government of Iraq
means:
(a) Any interim or permanent Iraqi government in authority after June 30, 2004, and any subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof; and
(b) Any partnership, association, corporation, or other organization substantially owned or controlled by the foregoing.

§ 576.311   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 576.312   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.

§ 576.313   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 576.314   UNSC Resolution 1483.

The term UNSC Resolution 1483 means United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 1483, adopted May 22, 2003.
UNSC Resolution 1483
means United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 1483, adopted May 22, 2003.

§ 576.315   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 576.316   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 576.317   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 576.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 576.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 576.403   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 576.201 if made after the effective date.

§ 576.404   Termination and acquisition of an interest in property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 576.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 576.201 or any other part of this chapter, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.
[[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended 82 FR 61451, Dec. 28, 2017]]

§ 576.405   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a); or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(c)
Example.
A license authorizing Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a), to complete a securities sale also authorizes all activities by other parties required to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, banks, etc., provided that such other parties are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).

§ 576.406   Provision of services.

(a) Except as provided in § 576.209, the prohibitions on transactions involving blocked property contained in § 576.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests subject to § 576.201.
(b)
Example:
U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).
Note to § 576.406:
See §§ 576.507 and 576.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and medical services.
See
§§ 576.507 and 576.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and medical services.

§ 576.407   Offshore transactions.

The prohibitions in § 576.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, or property in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201 has or has had an interest since the effective date.

§ 576.408   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 576.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.

§ 576.409   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a). For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from any such person.

§ 576.410   Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.

The prohibition in § 576.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including, but not limited to, charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a U.S. financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).

§ 576.411   Prohibited transactions involving certain Iraqi cultural property.

(a) The prohibition on trade in or transfer of ownership or possession of certain Iraqi cultural property in § 576.208 is separate from, and independent of, other laws and regulations that may also prohibit the same conduct.
(b) The mere compliance with certain legal, administrative, or procedural requirements, such as the filing of a U.S. Customs and Border Protection Form 3461 (Entry/Immediate Delivery) or U.S. Customs and Border Protection Form 7501 (Entry Summary), does not render the trade in or transfer of Iraqi cultural property otherwise consistent with U.S. law for purposes of § 576.208. The trade in or transfer of Iraqi cultural property as described in § 576.208 would violate § 576.208 regardless of whether the U.S. Customs and Border Protection forms were truthfully and accurately completed.
Note to § 576.411:
Other laws and regulations potentially applicable to the unlawful trade in or transfer of Iraqi cultural property include, but are not limited to, the transportation of stolen goods, 18 U.S.C. 2314; the receipt of stolen goods, 18 U.S.C. 2315; the importation of goods contrary to law, 18 U.S.C. 545 and 19 U.S.C. 1595a(a), (b), and (c); the exportation of goods contrary to law, 19 U.S.C. 1595a(d); the importation of stolen cultural property, 19 U.S.C. 2607; the importation of cultural property pertaining to the inventory of a museum or religious or secular public monument, 19 CFR 12.104a; and the emergency protection of Iraqi cultural antiquities, 19 CFR 12.104j.

§ 576.412   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 576.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
see
part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.

§ 576.502   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.

§ 576.503   Exclusion from licenses.

The Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 576.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 576.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 576.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 576.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 576.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charge shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charge
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 576.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 576.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 576.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a).

§ 576.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 576.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 576.405.
See
§ 576.405.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 576.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.
[[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, 89 FR 103646, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 576.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 576.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 576.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 576.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[89 FR 103646, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 576.509   Authorization of emergency medical services.

The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 576.201(a) is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.

§ 576.510   Unblocking certain blocked property.

(a) Except for such property and interests in property described in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions involving property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 576.201(b) of this part are authorized.
(b) The authorization in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to blocked property and interests in property of persons subject to sanctions pursuant to § 576.201(a) of this part or any other part of 31 CFR chapter V.

§ 576.511   Property controlled by the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners in Iraq.

The prohibition in § 576.201(a)(3) that deals with blocked property and interests in property shall not apply to property and interests in property controlled by the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners present in Iraq and acting in their official capacity under the command or operational control of the commander of United States Central Command.
Note to § 576.511:
See § 576.207 of this part, which exempts property and interests in property that come under the control of the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners present in Iraq and acting in their official capacity from the prohibitions in § 576.201(a)(1) and (2).
See
§ 576.207 of this part, which exempts property and interests in property that come under the control of the military forces of the United States and their coalition partners present in Iraq and acting in their official capacity from the prohibitions in § 576.201(a)(1) and (2).

§ 576.512   Transactions with certain blocked persons authorized.

(a) All transactions with state bodies, corporations, or agencies of the former Iraqi regime that are otherwise prohibited by § 576.201(a) are authorized.
(b) The authorization in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any transactions with state bodies, corporations, or agencies of the former Iraqi regime listed on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List.
[[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 38542, June 30, 2011]]

§ 576.513   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 576.514   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[[87 FR 78478, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 576.515   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 576.515.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78497, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 576.516   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 576.516.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78497, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 576.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 576.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (“IEEPA”), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, or regulation issued under IEEPA.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of IEEPA is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[75 FR 55466, Sept. 13, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10438, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 576.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b)(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see Appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to the Office of Foreign Assets Control by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, only upon specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by the Office of Foreign Assets Control are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 576.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 576.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 576.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 576.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13303 of May 22, 2003, and any subsequent Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, including but not limited to Executive Order 13315 of August 28, 2003, and Executive Order 13438 of July 17, 2007, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated the authority so to act.
(b) Unless otherwise delegated, the authority provided in section 2 of Executive Order 13315 to confiscate property blocked pursuant to this part and transfer all vested right, title, and interest in such property to the Development Fund for Iraq shall be exercised only by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 576.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 578—CYBER-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.); E.O. 13694, 80 FR 18077, 3 CFR 2015 Comp., p. 297; E.O. 13757, 82 FR 1, 3 CFR 2016 Comp., p. 659.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.); E.O. 13694, 80 FR 18077, 3 CFR 2015 Comp., p. 297; E.O. 13757, 82 FR 1, 3 CFR 2016 Comp., p. 659.
[Source:87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 578.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 578.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Annex to E.O. 13694, as amended by E.O. 13757 (“amended E.O. 13694”). The persons listed in the Annex to amended E.O. 13694;
Annex to E.O. 13694, as amended by E.O. 13757 (“amended E.O. 13694”).
The persons listed in the Annex to amended E.O. 13694;
(2) Amended E.O. 13694. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State:
Amended E.O. 13694.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, cyber-enabled activities originating from, or directed by persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside the United States that are reasonably likely to result in, or have materially contributed to, a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health or financial stability of the United States and that have the purpose or effect of:
(A) Harming, or otherwise significantly compromising the provision of services by, a computer or network of computers that support one or more entities in a critical infrastructure sector;
(B) Significantly compromising the provision of services by one or more entities in a critical infrastructure sector;
(C) Causing a significant disruption to the availability of a computer or network of computers;
(D) Causing a significant misappropriation of funds or economic resources, trade secrets, personal identifiers, or financial information for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain; or
(E) Tampering with, altering, or causing a misappropriation of information with the purpose or effect of interfering with or undermining election processes or institutions;
(ii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, the receipt or use for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain, or by a commercial entity, outside the United States of trade secrets misappropriated through cyber-enabled means, knowing they have been misappropriated, where the misappropriation of such trade secrets is reasonably likely to result in, or has materially contributed to, a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States;
(iii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or this paragraph (a)(2);
(iv) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or this paragraph (a)(2); or
(v) To have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section; and
(3) Section 224(a)(1) of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9524) (CAATSA). Any person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines:
Section 224(a)(1) of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9524) (CAATSA).
Any person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines:
(i) Knowingly engages in significant activities undermining cybersecurity against any person, including a democratic institution, or government on behalf of the Government of the Russian Federation; or
(ii) Is owned or controlled by, or acts or purports to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, a person described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after December 28, 2016, pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13694 of April 1, 2015, are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 578.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to amended E.O. 13694, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for amended E.O. 13694: “[CYBER2]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13694: using the identifier formulation “[CYBER-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” Persons designated pursuant to Section 224(a)(1) of CAATSA will have the identifier “[CAATSA-RUSSIA]”. Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section relating to the Russian Federation may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:” followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 578.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for amended E.O. 13694: “[CYBER2]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13694: using the identifier formulation “[CYBER-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” Persons designated pursuant to Section 224(a)(1) of CAATSA will have the identifier “[CAATSA-RUSSIA]”. Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section relating to the Russian Federation may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:” followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 578.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 578.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for amended E.O. 13694: “[BPI-CYBER2]”; for CAATSA: “[BPI-CAATSA-RUSSIA]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13694: “[BPI-CYBER-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
) in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for amended E.O. 13694: “[BPI-CYBER2]”; for CAATSA: “[BPI-CAATSA-RUSSIA]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13694: “[BPI-CYBER-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 578.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 578.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75964, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 578.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 578.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 578.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 578.201.

§ 578.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 578.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 578.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 578.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 578.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 578.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 578.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 578.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 578.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 578.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) U.S. intelligence activities. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.), or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
U.S. intelligence activities.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091
et seq.
), or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
(c) Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), including the supply by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or service, or the procurement of such product or service by any contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch conducted for NASA or any other non-Department of Defense customer.
Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), including the supply by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or service, or the procurement of such product or service by any contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch conducted for NASA or any other non-Department of Defense customer.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 578.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 578.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 578.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 578.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 578.301.
See § 578.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
See
§ 578.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.

§ 578.302   Critical infrastructure sector.

The term critical infrastructure sector means any of the designated critical infrastructure sectors identified in Presidential Policy Directive 21 of February 12, 2013.
critical infrastructure sector
means any of the designated critical infrastructure sectors identified in Presidential Policy Directive 21 of February 12, 2013.

§ 578.303   Cyber-enabled activities.

The term cyber-enabled activities includes any act that is primarily accomplished through or facilitated by computers or other electronic devices.
cyber-enabled activities
includes any act that is primarily accomplished through or facilitated by computers or other electronic devices.

§ 578.304   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person listed in the Annex to E.O. 13694, as amended by E.O. 13757, 12:01 eastern standard time, December 29, 2016.
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 578.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 578.305   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 578.306   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. Technologies as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods.
Technologies
as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 578.307   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any person that is not a U.S. person.
foreign person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.

§ 578.308   [Reserved]


§ 578.309   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 578.310   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 578.310.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 578.311   Misappropriation.

The term misappropriation includes any taking or obtaining by improper means, without permission or consent, or under false pretenses.
misappropriation
includes any taking or obtaining by improper means, without permission or consent, or under false pretenses.

§ 578.312   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 578.313   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 578.314   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 578.315   Significant activities undermining cybersecurity.

The term significant activities undermining cybersecurity includes: significant efforts to deny access to or degrade, disrupt, or destroy an information and communications technology system or network; or to exfiltrate, degrade, corrupt, destroy, or release information from such a system or network without authorization for purposes of conducting influence operations; or causing a significant misappropriation of funds, economic resources, trade secrets, personal identifications, or financial information for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain; significant destructive malware attacks; and significant denial of service activities.
significant activities undermining cybersecurity
includes: significant efforts to deny access to or degrade, disrupt, or destroy an information and communications technology system or network; or to exfiltrate, degrade, corrupt, destroy, or release information from such a system or network without authorization for purposes of conducting influence operations; or causing a significant misappropriation of funds, economic resources, trade secrets, personal identifications, or financial information for commercial or competitive advantage or private financial gain; significant destructive malware attacks; and significant denial of service activities.

§ 578.316   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 578.317   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 578.318   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 578.319   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 578.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 578.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 578.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 578.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 578.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 578.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.

§ 578.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 578.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 578.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
Note 1 to § 578.405.
See §§ 578.507 and 578.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 578.507 and 578.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 578.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 578.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 578.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 578.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 578.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 578.407.
See also § 578.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 578.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 578.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 578.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 578.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.

§ 578.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 578.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 578.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 578.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Sanctions Related to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 578.501.
Section 216 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires congressional review prior to the issuance of a license that significantly alters the United States' foreign policy with regard to the Russian Federation.

§ 578.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 578.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 578.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 578.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 578.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 578.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 578.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 578.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 578.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 578.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201.

§ 578.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 578.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 578.404.
See
§ 578.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 578.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 578.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 578.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 578.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 578.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 578.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 578.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103646, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 578.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 578.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 578.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.

§ 578.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 578.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78498, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 578.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 578.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78498, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 578.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 578.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[87 FR 54376, Sept. 6, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2233, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 578.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 578.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.

§ 578.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

§ 578.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's  Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's  Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 59678, Oct. 3, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 578.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 578.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13694 of April 1, 2015, as amended by E.O. 13757 of December 28, 2016, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Presidential Memorandum of September 29, 2017: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, and the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 578.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 579—FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN U.S. ELECTIONS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13848, 83 FR 46843, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 869.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13848, 83 FR 46843, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 869.
[Source:84 FR 17951, Apr. 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
84 FR 17951, Apr. 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 579.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 579.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and statements of licensing policy.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 579.201   Prohibited transactions.

All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, are also prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 579.201:
The names of persons designated pursuant to Executive Order 13848, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier [“ELECTION-EO13848”]. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 579.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier [“ELECTION-EO13848”]. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 579.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 579.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-ELECTION-EO13848]”.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-ELECTION-EO13848]”.
Note 3 to § 579.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 579.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[[84 FR 17951, Apr. 29, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 75964, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 579.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 579.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 579.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 579.201.

§ 579.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 579.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 579.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 579.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 579.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 579.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 579.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 579.205   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information or informational materials. (1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 579.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 579.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 are prohibited.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
(d) Official business. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 579.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 579.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 579.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 579.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 579.301:
See § 579.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201.

§ 579.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 579.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 579.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 579.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 579.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in Executive Order 13848 of September 14, 2018, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in Executive Order 13848 of September 14, 2018, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 579.305   Information or informational materials.

(a)(1) The term information or informational materials includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(2) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 579.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 579.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 579.307:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 579.308   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 579.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 579.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 579.311   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 579.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 579.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 579.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 579.401   [Reserved]


§ 579.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 579.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 579.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 579.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 579.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 579.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 579.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 579.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 579.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Foreign Interference in a United States Election Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 579.502   [Reserved]


§ 579.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 579.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 579.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 579.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 579.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 579.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses is authorized pursuant to § 579.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 579.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 579.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings, which is available on OFAC's website at: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's website at:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 579.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 579.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 579.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 579.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 579.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[84 FR 17951, Apr. 29, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 579.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, are authorized.

§ 579.509   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 579.510   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 579.511   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 579.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78499, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 579.512   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 579.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78499, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 579.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 579.701   Penalties and Findings of Violation.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 579.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 579.802   Delegation of certain authorities by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 579.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 579—Executive Order 13848

Executive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018
Imposing Certain Sanctions in the Event of Foreign Interference in a United States Election
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the ability of persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside the United States to interfere in or undermine public confidence in United States elections, including through the unauthorized accessing of election and campaign infrastructure or the covert distribution of propaganda and disinformation, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. Although there has been no evidence of a foreign power altering the outcome or vote tabulation in any United States election, foreign powers have historically sought to exploit America's free and open political system. In recent years, the proliferation of digital devices and internet-based communications has created significant vulnerabilities and magnified the scope and intensity of the threat of foreign interference, as illustrated in the 2017 Intelligence Community Assessment. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with this threat. Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1. (a) Not later than 45 days after the conclusion of a United States election, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate executive departments and agencies (agencies), shall conduct an assessment of any information indicating that a foreign government, or any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign government, has acted with the intent or purpose of interfering in that election. The assessment shall identify, to the maximum extent ascertainable, the nature of any foreign interference and any methods employed to execute it, the persons involved, and the foreign government or governments that authorized, directed, sponsored, or supported it. The Director of National Intelligence shall deliver this assessment and appropriate supporting information to the President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security.
Section 1.
(a) Not later than 45 days after the conclusion of a United States election, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate executive departments and agencies (agencies), shall conduct an assessment of any information indicating that a foreign government, or any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign government, has acted with the intent or purpose of interfering in that election. The assessment shall identify, to the maximum extent ascertainable, the nature of any foreign interference and any methods employed to execute it, the persons involved, and the foreign government or governments that authorized, directed, sponsored, or supported it. The Director of National Intelligence shall deliver this assessment and appropriate supporting information to the President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(b) Within 45 days of receiving the assessment and information described in section 1(a) of this order, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate agencies and, as appropriate, State and local officials, shall deliver to the President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Defense a report evaluating, with respect to the United States election that is the subject of the assessment described in section 1(a):
(i) the extent to which any foreign interference that targeted election infrastructure materially affected the security or integrity of that infrastructure, the tabulation of votes, or the timely transmission of election results; and
(ii) if any foreign interference involved activities targeting the infrastructure of, or pertaining to, a political organization, campaign, or candidate, the extent to which such activities materially affected the security or integrity of that infrastructure, including by unauthorized access to, disclosure or threatened disclosure of, or alteration or falsification of, information or data.
The report shall identify any material issues of fact with respect to these matters that the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security are unable to evaluate or reach agreement on at the time the report is submitted. The report shall also include updates and recommendations, when appropriate, regarding remedial actions to be taken by the United States Government, other than the sanctions described in sections 2 and 3 of this order.
(c) Heads of all relevant agencies shall transmit to the Director of National Intelligence any information relevant to the execution of the Director's duties pursuant to this order, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law. If relevant information emerges after the submission of the report mandated by section 1(a) of this order, the Director, in consultation with the heads of any other appropriate agencies, shall amend the report, as appropriate, and the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall amend the report required by section 1(b), as appropriate.
(d) Nothing in this order shall prevent the head of any agency or any other appropriate official from tendering to the President, at any time through an appropriate channel, any analysis, information, assessment, or evaluation of foreign interference in a United States election.
(e) If information indicating that foreign interference in a State, tribal, or local election within the United States has occurred is identified, it may be included, as appropriate, in the assessment mandated by section 1(a) of this order or in the report mandated by section 1(b) of this order, or submitted to the President in an independent report.
(f) Not later than 30 days following the date of this order, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence shall develop a framework for the process that will be used to carry out their respective responsibilities pursuant to this order. The framework, which may be classified in whole or in part, shall focus on ensuring that agencies fulfill their responsibilities pursuant to this order in a manner that maintains methodological consistency; protects law enforcement or other sensitive information and intelligence sources and methods; maintains an appropriate separation between intelligence functions and policy and legal judgments; ensures that efforts to protect electoral processes and institutions are insulated from political bias; and respects the principles of free speech and open debate.
Sec. 2. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
Sec. 2.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) to have directly or indirectly engaged in, sponsored, concealed, or otherwise been complicit in foreign interference in a United States election;
(ii) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in subsection (a)(i) of this section or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(iii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) Executive Order 13694 of April 1, 2015, as amended by Executive Order 13757 of December 28, 2016, remains in effect. This order is not intended to, and does not, serve to limit the Secretary of the Treasury's discretion to exercise the authorities provided in Executive Order 13694. Where appropriate, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, may exercise the authorities described in Executive Order 13694 or other authorities in conjunction with the Secretary of the Treasury's exercise of authorities provided in this order.
(c) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.
Sec. 3. Following the transmission of the assessment mandated by section 1(a) and the report mandated by section 1(b):
Sec. 3.
Following the transmission of the assessment mandated by section 1(a) and the report mandated by section 1(b):
(a) the Secretary of the Treasury shall review the assessment mandated by section 1(a) and the report mandated by section 1(b), and, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, impose all appropriate sanctions pursuant to section 2(a) of this order and any appropriate sanctions described in section 2(b) of this order; and
(b) the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the heads of other appropriate agencies, shall jointly prepare a recommendation for the President as to whether additional sanctions against foreign persons may be appropriate in response to the identified foreign interference and in light of the evaluation in the report mandated by section 1(b) of this order, including, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, proposed sanctions with respect to the largest business entities licensed or domiciled in a country whose government authorized, directed, sponsored, or supported election interference, including at least one entity from each of the following sectors: financial services, defense, energy, technology, and transportation (or, if inapplicable to that country's largest business entities, sectors of comparable strategic significance to that foreign government). The recommendation shall include an assessment of the effect of the recommended sanctions on the economic and national security interests of the United States and its allies. Any recommended sanctions shall be appropriately calibrated to the scope of the foreign interference identified, and may include one or more of the following with respect to each targeted foreign person:
(i) blocking and prohibiting all transactions in a person's property and interests in property subject to United States jurisdiction;
(ii) export license restrictions under any statute or regulation that requires the prior review and approval of the United States Government as a condition for the export or re-export of goods or services;
(iii) prohibitions on United States financial institutions making loans or providing credit to a person;
(iv) restrictions on transactions in foreign exchange in which a person has any interest;
(v) prohibitions on transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, for the benefit of a person;
(vi) prohibitions on United States persons investing in or purchasing equity or debt of a person;
(vii) exclusion of a person's alien corporate officers from the United States;
(viii) imposition on a person's alien principal executive officers of any of the sanctions described in this section; or
(ix) any other measures authorized by law.
Sec. 4. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2 of this order.
Sec. 4.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2 of this order.
Sec. 5. The prohibitions in section 2 of this order include the following:
Sec. 5.
The prohibitions in section 2 of this order include the following:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 6. I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and I hereby suspend entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 6.
I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and I hereby suspend entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 7. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 7.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 8. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 8.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person (including a foreign person) in the United States;
(d) the term “election infrastructure” means information and communications technology and systems used by or on behalf of the Federal Government or a State or local government in managing the election process, including voter registration databases, voting machines, voting tabulation equipment, and equipment for the secure transmission of election results;
(e) the term “United States election” means any election for Federal office held on, or after, the date of this order;
(f) the term “foreign interference,” with respect to an election, includes any covert, fraudulent, deceptive, or unlawful actions or attempted actions of a foreign government, or of any person acting as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign government, undertaken with the purpose or effect of influencing, undermining confidence in, or altering the result or reported result of, the election, or undermining public confidence in election processes or institutions;
(g) the term “foreign government” means any national, state, provincial, or other governing authority, any political party, or any official of any governing authority or political party, in each case of a country other than the United States;
(h) the term “covert,” with respect to an action or attempted action, means characterized by an intent or apparent intent that the role of aforeign government will not be apparent or acknowledged publicly; and
(i) the term “State” means the several States or any of the territories, dependencies, or possessions of the United States.
Sec. 9. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 2 of this order.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 2 of this order.
Sec. 10. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 10.
Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may re-delegate any of these functions to other officers within the Department of the Treasury consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 11.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may re-delegate any of these functions to other officers within the Department of the Treasury consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 12. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C.1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C.1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 13. This order shall be implemented consistent with 50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1) and (3).
Sec. 13.
This order shall be implemented consistent with 50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(1) and (3).
Sec. 14. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 14.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

PART 582—NICARAGUA SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-335, 132 Stat. 5019 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13851, 83 FR 61505, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 884.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-335, 132 Stat. 5019 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13851, 83 FR 61505, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 884.
[Source:84 FR 46441, Sept. 4, 2019, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
84 FR 46441, Sept. 4, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 582.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 582.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and statements of licensing policy.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 582.201   Prohibited transactions.

All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018 (E.O. 13851), or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851, and any transactions prohibited pursuant to the Nicaragua Human Rights and Anticorruption Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-335; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) (NHRAA), are also prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 582.201:
The names of persons designated pursuant to E.O. 13851, or listed in or designated or identified pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13851: “[NICARAGUA]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851: Using the identifier formulation “[NICARAGUA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The names of persons designated or identified pursuant to NHRAA will be incorporated into the SDN list with the identifier “[NICARAGUA-NHRAA]”. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 582.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13851: “[NICARAGUA]” and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851: Using the identifier formulation “[NICARAGUA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The names of persons designated or identified pursuant to NHRAA will be incorporated into the SDN list with the identifier “[NICARAGUA-NHRAA]”. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 582.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 582.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), and the NHRAA, in section 5(d)(1), authorize the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13851: “[BPI-NICARAGUA]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-NICARAGUA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]]”; for the NHRAA: “[BPI-NHRAA]”.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13851: “[BPI-NICARAGUA]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13851: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-NICARAGUA-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]]”; for the NHRAA: “[BPI-NHRAA]”.
Note 3 to § 582.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 582.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[[85 FR 43437, July 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 75964, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 582.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 582.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 582.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 582.201.

§ 582.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 582.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 582.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 582.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 582.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 582.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 582.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 582.205   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information or informational materials. (1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 582.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 582.305, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 are prohibited.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 582.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 582.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 582.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 582.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 582.301:
See § 582.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201.
See
§ 582.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201.

§ 582.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 582.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 582.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 582.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 582.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 582.305   Information or informational materials.

(a)(1) The term information or informational materials includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
(2) To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 582.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 582.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 582.307:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 582.308   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 582.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 582.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 582.311   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 582.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 582.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 582.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 582.401   [Reserved]


§ 582.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 582.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 582.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 582.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 582.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 582.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 582.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 582.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 582.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Nicaragua sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 582.502   [Reserved]


§ 582.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 582.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 582.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 582.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 582.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 582.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 582.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018, is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 582.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 582.404.
See
§ 582.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 582.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings, which is available on OFAC's website at: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's website at:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 582.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 582.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851, of November 27, 2018 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 582.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201 or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851, of November 27, 2018 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 582.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 582.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[84 FR 46441, Sept. 4, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 582.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part or any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018 are authorized.

§ 582.509   Official Business of the United States Government.

All transactions that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[85 FR 43437, July 17, 2020]]

§ 582.510   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 582.511   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 582.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78499, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 582.512   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 582.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78500, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 582.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 582.701   Penalties and Findings of Violation.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 582.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 582.802   Delegation of certain authorities by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Memorandum of May 24, 2019: Delegation of Functions and Authorities under the Nicaragua Human Rights and Anticorruption Act of 2018, May 24, 2019 (published June 13, 2019), may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[85 FR 43437, July 17, 2020]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 582.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 582—Executive Order 13851

Executive Order 13851 of November 27, 2018
Blocking Property of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in Nicaragua
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the situation in Nicaragua, including the violent response by the Government of Nicaragua to the protests that began on April 18, 2018, and the Ortega regime's systematic dismantling and undermining of democratic institutions and the rule of law, its use of indiscriminate violence and repressive tactics against civilians, as well as its corruption leading to the destabilization of Nicaragua's economy, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby determine and order:
Section 1. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
Section 1.
(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:
(A) Serious human rights abuse in Nicaragua;
(B) actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Nicaragua;
(C) actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Nicaragua;
(D) any transaction or series of transactions involving deceptive practices or corruption by, on behalf of, or otherwise related to the Government of Nicaragua or a current or former official of the Government of Nicaragua, such as the misappropriation of public assets or expropriation of private assets for personal gain or political purposes, corruption related to government contracts, or bribery;
(ii) to be a leader or official of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in subsection (a)(i) of this section or of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
(iii) to be an official of the Government of Nicaragua or to have served as an official of the Government of Nicaragua at any time on or after January 10, 2007;
(iv) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of:
(A) Any activities described in subsection (a)(i) of this section; or
(B) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(v) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.
Sec. 2. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the person's entry is in the national interest of the United States. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 2.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except where the Secretary of State determines that the person's entry is in the national interest of the United States. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 3. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 3.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 4. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
Sec. 4.
The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 5. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 5.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 6.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States; and
(d) the term “Government of Nicaragua” means the Government of Nicaragua, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Nicaragua, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Nicaragua.
Sec. 7. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 7.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 8. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies of the United States Government shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 8.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies of the United States Government shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 9. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 9.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 10. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 10.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Donald J. Trump
,
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 27, 2018.

PART 583—GLOBAL MAGNITSKY SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 10101-10103; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 116-145, 134 Stat. 651, as amended (22 U.S.C. 6901 note); Pub. L. 117-78, 135 Stat. 1531 (22 U.S.C. 6901 note); E.O. 13818, 82 FR 60839, 3 CFR, 2017 Comp., p. 399.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 10101-10103; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 116-145, 134 Stat. 651, as amended (22 U.S.C. 6901 note); Pub. L. 117-78, 135 Stat. 1531 (22 U.S.C. 6901 note); E.O. 13818, 82 FR 60839, 3 CFR, 2017 Comp., p. 399.
[Source:89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 583.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 583.102   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

§ 583.103   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 583.104   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

§ 583.105   [Reserved]


§ 583.106   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13818, any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, or Presidential Memorandum of December 7, 2023: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities Under the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act of 2020 and Public Law 117-78, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority to so act.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 583.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Executive Order (E.O.) 13818 Annex. The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13818 of December 20, 2017.
Executive Order (E.O.) 13818 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13818 of December 20, 2017.
(2) E.O. 13818. Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General:
E.O. 13818.
Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, serious human rights abuse;
(ii) To be a current or former government official, or a person acting for or on behalf of such an official, who is responsible for or complicit in, or has directly or indirectly engaged in:
(A) Corruption, including the misappropriation of state assets, the expropriation of private assets for personal gain, corruption related to government contracts or the extraction of natural resources, or bribery; or
(B) The transfer or the facilitation of the transfer of the proceeds of corruption;
(iii) To be or have been a leader or official of:
(A) An entity, including any government entity, that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(A), or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section relating to the leader's or official's tenure; or
(B) An entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order as a result of activities related to the leader's or official's tenure;
(iv) To have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(A), or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(v) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(A) Any activity described in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(A), or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section that is conducted by a foreign person;
(B) Any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(C) Any entity, including any government entity, that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii)(A), or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, where the activity is conducted by a foreign person;
(vi) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(vii) To have attempted to engage in any of the activities described in paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (a)(2)(vi) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, rulings, instructions, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after December 20, 2017 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13818 of December 20, 2017 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 583.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13818, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13818: “[GLOMAG]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13818: using the identifier formulation “[GLOMAG-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 583.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13818: “[GLOMAG]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13818: using the identifier formulation “[GLOMAG-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]]”. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 583.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 583.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13818: “[BPI-GLOMAG]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13818: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-GLOMAG-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702) authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13818: “[BPI-GLOMAG]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13818: using the identifier formulation “[BPI-GLOMAG-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 582.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 582.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[[89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 75965, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 583.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 583.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 583.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or other authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 583.201.

§ 583.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 583.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 583.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 583.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 583.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 583.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 583.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 583.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 583.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 583.206   Exempt transactions.

The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 583.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 583.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 583.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 583.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 583.301:
See § 583.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
See
§ 583.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.

§ 583.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on December 21, 2017; and
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 583.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 583.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 583.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 583.305   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.

§ 583.306   [Reserved]


§ 583.307   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 583.308   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: https://ofac.treasury.gov.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
https://ofac.treasury.gov.
Note 1 to § 583.308:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 583.309   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 583.310   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 583.311   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 583.312   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 583.313   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 583.314   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 583.315   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 583.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 583.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any regulation, ruling, insruction, order, directive, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 583.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 583.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 583.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 583.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.

§ 583.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 583.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 583.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
Note 1 to § 583.405:
See §§ 583.507 and 583.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 583.507 and 583.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 583.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 583.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 583.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 583.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 583.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 583.407:
See also § 583.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 583.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 583.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 583.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 583.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.

§ 583.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 583.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 583.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

§ 583.412   Entities of which one or more blocked persons is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.

(a) The property and interests in property of an entity, including any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of a governmental entity, are not blocked solely because one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 583.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
See
§ 583.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized or exempt pursuant to this part, engage in the following transactions with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201: enter into contracts that are signed by a blocked person, enter into negotiations with a blocked person, or process transactions, directly or indirectly, on behalf of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201. However, U.S. persons are not prohibited from engaging in a routine interaction with an agency in which a blocked person is an official, but which does not involve the blocked person directly or indirectly.
Note 2 to § 583.412:
OFAC encourages U.S. persons to be cautious in engaging in transactions with any entity of which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is a member, leader, official, senior executive officer, or otherwise exercises control to ensure that U.S. persons are not engaged in transactions, directly or indirectly, with a blocked person, except as authorized or exempt pursuant to this part.

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 583.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Global Magnitsky sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.

§ 583.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 583.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 583.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 583.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 583.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 583.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 583.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 583.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 583.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 583.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201.

§ 583.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 583.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 583.404.
See
§ 583.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 583.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 583.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 583.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 583.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 583.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 583.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 583.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 583.510   Official business of the United States government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 583.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.

§ 583.512   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 583.512:
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 583.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 583.513:
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart F [Reserved]


Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 583.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any regulation in this part, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any regulation in this part, ruling, instruction, order, directive, license, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[89 FR 17731, Mar. 12, 2024, as amended at 90 FR 3692, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 583.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 583.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.

§ 583.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

§ 583.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations in this part did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations in this part did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

PART 584—MAGNITSKY ACT SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 112-208, Title IV, 126 Stat. 1502 (22 U.S.C. 5811 note).]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 112-208, Title IV, 126 Stat. 1502 (22 U.S.C. 5811 note).
[Source:82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 584.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 584.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in: Any person who the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines:
(1) Is responsible for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky, participated in efforts to conceal the legal liability for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky, financially benefitted from the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky, or was involved in the criminal conspiracy uncovered by Sergei Magnitsky;
(2) Is responsible for extrajudicial killings, torture, or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights committed against individuals seeking:
(i) To expose illegal activity carried out by officials of the Government of the Russian Federation; or
(ii) To obtain, exercise, defend, or promote internationally recognized human rights and freedoms, such as the freedoms of religion, expression, association, and assembly, and the rights to a fair trial and democratic elections, in Russia; or
(3) Acted as an agent of or on behalf of a person in a matter relating to an activity described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
The names of persons who meet the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and are designated pursuant to the Magnitsky Act, whose property and interests in property are therefore blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a), are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “MAGNIT.” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 584.410 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “MAGNIT.” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 584.410 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of the property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this paragraph (a) are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-MAGNIT].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-MAGNIT].”
Note 3 to paragraph (
a
):
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to paragraph (
a
):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, except for donations by United States persons of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent transactions are authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[[82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 75965, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 584.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interest.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).

§ 584.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 584.201(a) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 584.201(a) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 584.201(a) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 584.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked physical property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 584.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 584.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Information or informational materials. (1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 584.304, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
Information or informational materials.
(1) The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation from any country and the exportation to any country of any information or informational materials, as defined in § 584.304, whether commercial or otherwise, regardless of format or medium of transmission.
(2) This section does not exempt from regulation transactions related to information or informational materials not fully created and in existence at the date of the transactions, or to the substantive or artistic alteration or enhancement of information or informational materials, or to the provision of marketing and business consulting services. Such prohibited transactions include payment of advances for information or informational materials not yet created and completed (with the exception of prepaid subscriptions for widely circulated magazines and other periodical publications); provision of services to market, produce or co-produce, create, or assist in the creation of information or informational materials; and payment of royalties with respect to income received for enhancements or alterations made by U.S. persons to such information or informational materials.
(3) This section does not exempt transactions incident to the exportation of software subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730-774, or to the exportation of goods (including software) or technology for use in the transmission of any data, or to the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity) for use in the transmission of any data. The exportation of such items or services and the provision, sale, or leasing of such capacity or facilities to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) are prohibited.
(c) Travel. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
Travel.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to transactions ordinarily incident to travel to or from any country, including importation or exportation of accompanied baggage for personal use, maintenance within any country including payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use, and arrangement or facilitation of such travel including nonscheduled air, sea, or land voyages.
(d) Humanitarian donations. The prohibitions of this part do not apply to donations by United States persons of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering.
Humanitarian donations.
The prohibitions of this part do not apply to donations by United States persons of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be used to relieve human suffering.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 584.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 584.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 584.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 584.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note to § 584.301:
See § 584.410 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).

§ 584.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), is the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), is the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.

§ 584.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 584.304   Information or informational materials.

(a) The term information or informational materials includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials,
with respect to exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter become, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (EAA), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 584.305   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 584.306   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note to § 584.306:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 584.307   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 584.308   Participated in efforts to conceal the legal liability for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky.

The term participated in efforts to conceal the legal liability for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky includes direct or indirect, knowing or unknowing, involvement in, among others:
participated in efforts to conceal the legal liability for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky
includes direct or indirect, knowing or unknowing, involvement in, among others:
(a) Actions with the intent or effect of obstructing the release of evidence regarding Sergei Magnitsky's treatment during his detention;
(b) Posthumous legal proceedings against Sergei Magnitsky; or
(c) The making of any false or misleading reports or accounts by officials of the Russian Federation concerning Sergei Magnitsky's detention, abuse, or death, or the fraudulent tax scheme he discovered, including official statements or findings regarding Sergei Magnitsky's treatment during his detention that contradict the July 6, 2011, findings of the independent investigation by the Presidential Council on the Development of Civil Society and Human Rights, or the December 28, 2009, report of the Public Oversight Commission for the City of Moscow for the Control of the Observance of Human Rights in Places of Forced Detention.

§ 584.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 584.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 584.311   Magnitsky Act.

The term Magnitsky Act means the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012, Public Law 112-208, title IV, 126 Stat. 1502 (2012).
Magnitsky Act
means the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012, Public Law 112-208, title IV, 126 Stat. 1502 (2012).

§ 584.312   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 584.313   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 584.314   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 584.315   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 584.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, directive, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 584.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 584.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 584.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a); or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) Example. A license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
Example.
A license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).

§ 584.405   Provision of services.

(a) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 584.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
(b) Example. U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
Example.
U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).
Note to § 584.405:
See §§ 584.507 and 584.509 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 584.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 584.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).

§ 584.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 584.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note to § 584.407:
See also § 584.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 584.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 584.408   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 584.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).

§ 584.409   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 584.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 584.410   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[[82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, as amended at 87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 584.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Magnitsky Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 584.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 584.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 584.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 584.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 584.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 584.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 584.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 584.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 584.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 584.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a).

§ 584.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act is authorized, provided that receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed, authorized pursuant to § 584.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States, or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
Consistent with § 584.404, U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this paragraph. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this paragraph do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note to § 584.507:
U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds necessary for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings, which is available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 584.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a) or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(1) A source within the United States;
(2) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(3) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
This paragraph authorizes the blocked person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a) are to be provided to make payments for authorized legal services using funds originating outside the United States that were not previously blocked. Nothing in this paragraph authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 584.201(a), any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
Note to § 584.508:
U.S. persons who receive payments in connection with legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a) do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. Additionally, U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 584.507(a).
[[82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 584.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are otherwise prohibited by this part or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act are authorized.

§ 584.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 584.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[[87 FR 78479, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 584.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 584.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78501, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 584.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 584.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78501, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 584.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Finding of Violation


§ 584.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[82 FR 60508, Dec. 21, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2143, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 584.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in this paragraph (b). The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in this paragraph (b). The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

§ 584.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.

§ 584.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

§ 584.705   Finding of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act;
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and,
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; Default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in this paragraph (b). The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in this paragraph (b). The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and must include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c)(1) Determination. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Determination.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 584.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 584.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to the Magnitsky Act; Presidential Memorandum of April 5, 2013: Delegation of Functions Under Section 404 and 406 of Public Law 112-208 (78 FR 22761, April 16, 2013); or any Executive orders or further Presidential action relating to the Magnitsky Act, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 584.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 585—HONG KONG-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13936, 85 FR 43413, 3 CFR, 2020 Comp., p. 399.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13936, 85 FR 43413, 3 CFR, 2020 Comp., p. 399.
[Source:At 86 FR 3794, Jan. 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
At 86 FR 3794, Jan. 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

§ 585.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 585.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and statements of licensing policy.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 585.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13936 of July 14, 2020 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13936 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 585.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13936, or listed in, designated, or identified as blocked pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13936, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[HK-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 585.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[HK-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 585.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 585.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section  are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: for E.O. 13936 and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13936: “[BPI-HK-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]]”.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: for E.O. 13936 and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13936: “[BPI-HK-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]]”.
Note 3 to § 585.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 585.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[86 FR 3794, Jan. 15, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75965, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 585.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 585.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 585.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 585.201.

§ 585.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 585.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 585.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 585.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 585.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 585.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 585.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 585.205   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Official business. The prohibitions contained in § 585.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 585.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Note 1 to paragraph (b).
See § 585.509 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government not otherwise exempt.
See
§ 585.509 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government not otherwise exempt.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 585.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 585.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 585.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 585.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 585.301.
See § 585.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201.
See
§ 585.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201.

§ 585.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 585.303   Entity.

The term entity means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization, including an international organization.
entity
means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization, including an international organization.

§ 585.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 585.305   [Reserved]


§ 585.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 585.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 585.307.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 585.308   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 585.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 585.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 585.311   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 585.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 585.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 585.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 585.401   [Reserved]


§ 585.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 585.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 585.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 585.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 585.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 585.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 585.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 585.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 585.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Hong Kong-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
see
part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Hong Kong-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 585.502   [Reserved]


§ 585.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 585.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 585.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 585.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 585.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 585.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 585.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 585.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 585.404.
See
§ 585.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 585.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 585.506.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 585.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 585.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 585.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 585.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 585.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[86 FR 3794, Jan. 15, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 103647, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 585.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 585.509   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 585.510   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
[[87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 585.511   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 585.511.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78502, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 585.512   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 585.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78502, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 585.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 585.701   Penalties and Findings of Violation.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 585.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 585.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13936, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 585.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 585—Executive Order 13936 of July 14, 2020

Executive Order 13936 of July 14, 2020
The President's Executive Order on Hong Kong Normalization
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102-393), the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 (Pub. L. 116-76), the Hong Kong Autonomy Act of 2020, signed into law July 14, 2020, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, determine, pursuant to section 202 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, that the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong (Hong Kong) is no longer sufficiently autonomous to justify differential treatment in relation to the People's Republic of China (PRC or China) under the particular United States laws and provisions thereof set out in this order. In late May 2020, the National People's Congress of China announced its intention to unilaterally and arbitrarily impose national security legislation on Hong Kong. This announcement was merely China's latest salvo in a series of actions that have increasingly denied autonomy and freedoms that China promised to the people of Hong Kong under the 1984 Joint Declaration of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Question of Hong Kong (Joint Declaration). As a result, on May 27, 2020, the Secretary of State announced that the PRC had fundamentally undermined Hong Kong's autonomy and certified and reported to the Congress, pursuant to sections 205 and 301 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, as amended, respectively, that Hong Kong no longer warrants treatment under United States law in the same manner as United States laws were applied to Hong Kong before July 1, 1997. On May 29, 2020, I directed the heads of executive departments and agencies (agencies) to begin the process of eliminating policy exemptions under United States law that give Hong Kong differential treatment in relation to China.
China has since followed through on its threat to impose national security legislation on Hong Kong. Under this law, the people of Hong Kong may face life in prison for what China considers to be acts of secession or subversion of state power—which may include acts like last year's widespread anti-government protests. The right to trial by jury may be suspended. Proceedings may be conducted in secret. China has given itself broad power to initiate and control the prosecutions of the people of Hong Kong through the new Office for Safeguarding National Security. At the same time, the law allows foreigners to be expelled if China merely suspects them of violating the law, potentially making it harder for journalists, human rights organizations, and other outside groups to hold the PRC accountable for its treatment of the people of Hong Kong.
I therefore determine that the situation with respect to Hong Kong, including recent actions taken by the PRC to fundamentally undermine Hong Kong's autonomy, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. I hereby declare a national emergency with respect to that threat.
In light of the foregoing, I hereby determine and order:
Section 1. It shall be the policy of the United States to suspend or eliminate different and preferential treatment for Hong Kong to the extent permitted by law and in the national security, foreign policy, and economic interest of the United States.
Section 1.
It shall be the policy of the United States to suspend or eliminate different and preferential treatment for Hong Kong to the extent permitted by law and in the national security, foreign policy, and economic interest of the United States.
Sec. 2. Pursuant to section 202 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5722), I hereby suspend the application of section 201(a) of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, as amended (22 U.S.C. 5721(a)), to the following statutes:
Sec. 2.
Pursuant to section 202 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5722), I hereby suspend the application of section 201(a) of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, as amended (22 U.S.C. 5721(a)), to the following statutes:
(a) section 103 of the Immigration Act of 1990 (8 U.S.C. 1152 note);
(b) sections 203(c), 212(l), and 221(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1153(c), 1182(l), and 1201(c), respectively);
(c) the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(d) section 721(m) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565(m));
(e) the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.); and
et seq.
); and
(f) section 1304 of title 19, United States Code.
Sec. 3. Within 15 days of the date of this order, the heads of agencies shall commence all appropriate actions to further the purposes of this order, consistent with applicable law, including, to:
Sec. 3.
Within 15 days of the date of this order, the heads of agencies shall commence all appropriate actions to further the purposes of this order, consistent with applicable law, including, to:
(a) Amend any regulations implementing those provisions specified in section 2 of this order, and, consistent with applicable law and executive orders, under IEEPA, which provide different treatment for Hong Kong as compared to China;
(b) amend the regulation at 8 CFR 212.4(i) to eliminate the preference for Hong Kong passport holders as compared to PRC passport holders;
(c) revoke license exceptions for exports to Hong Kong, reexports to Hong Kong, and transfers (in-country) within Hong Kong of items subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730-774, that provide differential treatment compared to those license exceptions applicable to exports to China, reexports to China, and transfers (in-country) within China;
(d) consistent with section 902(b)(2) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (Pub. L. 101-246), terminate the export licensing suspensions under section 902(a)(3) of such Act insofar as such suspensions apply to exports of defense articles to Hong Kong persons who are physically located outside of Hong Kong and the PRC and who were authorized to receive defense articles prior to the date of this order;
(e) give notice of intent to suspend the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Hong Kong for the Surrender of Fugitive Offenders (TIAS 98-121);
(f) give notice of intent to terminate the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Hong Kong for the Transfer of Sentenced Persons (TIAS 99-418);
(g) take steps to end the provision of training to members of the Hong Kong Police Force or other Hong Kong security services at the Department of State's International Law Enforcement Academies;
(h) suspend continued cooperation undertaken consistent with the now-expired Protocol Between the U.S. Geological Survey of the Department of the Interior of the United States of America and Institute of Space and Earth Information Science of the Chinese University of Hong Kong Concerning Scientific and Technical Cooperation in Earth Sciences (TIAS 09-1109);
(i) take steps to terminate the Fulbright exchange program with regard to China and Hong Kong with respect to future exchanges for participants traveling both from and to China or Hong Kong;
(j) give notice of intent to terminate the agreement for the reciprocal exemption with respect to taxes on income from the international operation of ships effected by the Exchange of Notes Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Hong Kong (TIAS 11892);
(k) reallocate admissions within the refugee ceiling set by the annual Presidential Determination to residents of Hong Kong based on humanitarian concerns, to the extent feasible and consistent with applicable law; and
(l) propose for my consideration any further actions deemed necessary and prudent to end special conditions and preferential treatment for Hong Kong.
Sec. 4. All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
Sec. 4.
All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(a) Any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be or have been involved, directly or indirectly, in the coercing, arresting, detaining, or imprisoning of individuals under the authority of, or to be or have been responsible for or involved in developing, adopting, or implementing, the Law of the People's Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security in the Hong Kong Administrative Region;
(ii) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Hong Kong;
(B) actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability, or autonomy of Hong Kong;
(C) censorship or other activities with respect to Hong Kong that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedom of expression or assembly by citizens of Hong Kong, or that limit access to free and independent print, online or broadcast media; or
(D) the extrajudicial rendition, arbitrary detention, or torture of any person in Hong Kong or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights or serious human rights abuse in Hong Kong;
(iii) to be or have been a leader or official of:
(A) An entity, including any government entity, that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in subsections (a)(i), (a)(ii)(A), (a)(ii)(B), or (a)(ii)(C) of this section; or
(B) an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(iv) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section;
(v) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; or
(vi) to be a member of the board of directors or a senior executive officer of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 5. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 4 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 4 of this order.
Sec. 5.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 4 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 4 of this order.
Sec. 6. The prohibitions in section 4(a) of this order include:
Sec. 6.
The prohibitions in section 4(a) of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 4(a) of this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 7. The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 4(a) of this order, as well as immediate family members of such aliens, or aliens determined by the Secretary of State to be employed by, or acting as an agent of, such aliens, would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants and nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility of implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693.
Sec. 7.
The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 4(a) of this order, as well as immediate family members of such aliens, or aliens determined by the Secretary of State to be employed by, or acting as an agent of, such aliens, would be detrimental to the interest of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants and nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended. Such persons shall be treated as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions). The Secretary of State shall have the responsibility of implementing this section pursuant to such conditions and procedures as the Secretary has established or may establish pursuant to Proclamation 8693.
Sec. 8. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 8.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 9. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 9.
Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Sec. 10. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 10.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization, including an international organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States; and
(d) The term “immediate family member” means spouses and children of any age.
Sec. 11. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to section 4 of this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 4 of this order.
Sec. 11.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to section 4 of this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 4 of this order.
Sec. 12. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 12.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to me by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 13. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 13.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 14. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 14.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 15. If, based on consideration of the terms, obligations, and expectations expressed in the Joint Declaration, I determine that changes in China's actions ensure that Hong Kong is sufficiently autonomous to justify differential treatment in relation to the PRC under United States law, I will reconsider the determinations made and actions taken and directed under this order.
Sec. 15.
If, based on consideration of the terms, obligations, and expectations expressed in the Joint Declaration, I determine that changes in China's actions ensure that Hong Kong is sufficiently autonomous to justify differential treatment in relation to the PRC under United States law, I will reconsider the determinations made and actions taken and directed under this order.
DONALD J. TRUMP,
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 11, 2020.

PART 586—CHINESE MILITARY-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13959, 85 FR 73185, 3 CFR, 2020 Comp., p. 475; E.O. 14032, 86 FR 30145.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13959, 85 FR 73185, 3 CFR, 2020 Comp., p. 475; E.O. 14032, 86 FR 30145.
[Source:87 FR 8736, Feb. 16, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 8736, Feb. 16, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 586.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 586.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance, general licenses, and other regulatory provisions.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 586.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive order (E.O.) 13959 of November 12, 2020, as amended by E.O. 14032 of June 3, 2021 (“E.O. 13959, as amended”), are prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13959, as amended, are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 586.201.
The names of persons identified in or pursuant to E.O. 13959, as amended, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies List (NS-CMIC List) using the following identifier formulation: “[CMIC-EO13959].” The NS-CMIC List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies List (NS-CMIC List) using the following identifier formulation: “[CMIC-EO13959].” The NS-CMIC List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 2 to § 586.201.
Section 501.807 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed by persons seeking administrative reconsideration of their status as persons subject to the prohibitions of this section.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 586.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 586.301   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 586.302   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 586.302.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 586.303   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 586.304   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 586.305   Publicly traded securities.

The term publicly traded securities includes any security, as defined in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Public Law 73-291 (as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)), denominated in any currency that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as over-the-counter, in any jurisdiction.
publicly traded securities
includes any
security,
as defined in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Public Law 73-291 (as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)), denominated in any currency that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as
over-the-counter,
in any jurisdiction.

§ 586.306   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 586.307   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 586.308   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 586.401   [Reserved]


§ 586.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 586.403   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized.

§ 586.404   Subsidiary entities.

The prohibitions in § 586.201(a) apply to a subsidiary of an entity identified in or pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13959 of November 12, 2020, as amended by E.O. 14032 of June 3, 2021 (“E.O. 13959, as amended”), only if the subsidiary itself is identified in or pursuant to E.O. 13959, as amended.

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 586.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Chinese Military-Industrial Complex sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 586.502   [Reserved]


§ 586.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

Subpart F—Reports


§ 586.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 586.701   Penalties and Findings of Violation.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 586.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 586.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13959 of November 12, 2020, as amended by E.O. 14032 of June 3, 2021, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 586.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 586—Executive Order 13959 of November 12, 2020 Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military Companies

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that the People's Republic of China (PRC) is increasingly exploiting United States capital to resource and to enable the development and modernization of its military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses, which continues to allow the PRC to directly threaten the United States homeland and United States forces overseas, including by developing and deploying weapons of mass destruction, advanced conventional weapons, and malicious cyber-enabled actions against the United States and its people.
Key to the development of the PRC's military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses is the country's large, ostensibly private economy. Through the national strategy of Military-Civil Fusion, the PRC increases the size of the country's military-industrial complex by compelling civilian Chinese companies to support its military and intelligence activities. Those companies, though remaining ostensibly private and civilian, directly support the PRC's military, intelligence, and security apparatuses and aid in their development and modernization.
At the same time, those companies raise capital by selling securities to United States investors that trade on public exchanges both here and abroad, lobbying United States index providers and funds to include these securities in market offerings, and engaging in other acts to ensure access to United States capital. In that way, the PRC exploits United States investors to finance the development and modernization of its military.
I therefore further find that the PRC's military-industrial complex, by directly supporting the efforts of the PRC's military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. To protect the United States homeland and the American people, I hereby declare a national emergency with respect to this threat.
Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1. (a) The following actions are prohibited:
Section 1.
(a) The following actions are prohibited:
(i) Beginning 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on January 11, 2021, any transaction in publicly traded securities, or any securities that are derivative of, or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of any Communist Chinese military company as defined in section 4(a)(i) of this order, by any United States person; and
(ii) beginning 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on the date that is 60 days after a person is determined to be a Communist Chinese military company pursuant to section (4)(a)(ii) or (iii) of this order, any transaction in publicly traded securities, or any securities that are derivative of, or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of that person, by any United States person.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(i) of this section, purchases for value or sales made on or before 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on November 11, 2021, solely to divest, in whole or in part, from securities that any United States person held as of 9:30 a.m. eastern standard time on January 11, 2021, in a Communist Chinese military company as defined in section 4(a)(i) of this order, are permitted.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(ii) of this section, for a person determined to be a Communist Chinese military company pursuant to section 4(a)(ii) or (iii) of this order, purchases for value or sales made on or before 365 days from the date of such determination, solely to divest, in whole or in part, from securities that any United States person held in such person, as of the date 60 days from the date of such determination, are permitted.
(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2. (a) Any transaction by a United States person or within the United States that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 2.
(a) Any transaction by a United States person or within the United States that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 3. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and the heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies) as deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 3.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and the heads of other executive departments and agencies (agencies) as deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
(b) Rules and regulations issued pursuant to this order may, among other things, establish procedures to license transactions otherwise prohibited pursuant to this order. But prior to issuing any license under this order, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the Director of National Intelligence.
Sec. 4. Definitions. For purposes of this order:
Sec. 4.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) The term “Communist Chinese military company” means
(i) any person that the Secretary of Defense has listed as a Communist Chinese military company operating directly or indirectly in the United States or in any of its territories or possessions pursuant to section 1237 of Public Law 105-261, as amended by section 1233 of Public Law 106-398 and section 1222 of Public Law 108-375, as of the date of this order, and as set forth in the Annex to this order, until such time as the Secretary of Defense removes such person from such list;
(ii) any person that the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines is a Communist Chinese military company operating directly or indirectly in the United States or in any of its territories or possessions and therefore lists as such pursuant to section 1237 of Public Law 105-261, as amended by section 1233 of Public Law 106-398 and section 1222 of Public Law 108-375, until such time as the Secretary of Defense removes such person from such list; or
(iii) any person that the Secretary of the Treasury publicly lists as meeting the criteria in section 1237(b)(4)(B) of Public Law 105-261, or publicly lists as a subsidiary of a person already determined to be a Communist Chinese military company, until the Secretary of the Treasury determines that such person no longer meets that criteria and removes such person from such list.
(b) The term “entity” means a government or instrumentality of such government, partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(d) the terms “security” and “securities” include the definition of “security” in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Public Law 73-291, as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10), except that currency or any note, draft, bill of exchange, or banker's acceptance which has a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding 9 months, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited, shall be a security for purposes of this order.
(e) The term “transaction” means the purchase for value of any publicly traded security; and
(f) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 5. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and, as appropriate, the Secretary of Defense, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 5.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and, as appropriate, the Secretary of Defense, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 6. General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
DONALD J. TRUMP
THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 12, 2020
Annex
Aero Engine Corp of China
Aviation Industry Corporation of China, Ltd. (AVIC)
China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology (CALT)
China Aerospace Science & Technology Corporation (CASC)
China Aerospace Science & Industry Corporation (CASIC)
China Communication Construction Group Company, Ltd.
China Electronics Corporation (CEC)
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (CETC)
China Mobile Communications
China National Chemical Corporation (ChernChina)
China National Chemical Engineering Group Co., Ltd. (CNCEC)
China National Nuclear
China Nuclear Engineering & Construction Corporation (CNECC)
China General Nuclear Power
China Railway Construction Corporation (CRCC)
China Shipbuilding Industry Corporation (CSIC)
China South Industries Group Corporation (CSGC)
China Spacesat
China State Construction Group Co., Ltd.
China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC)
China Telecommunications
China Three Gorges Corporation Limited
China United Network Communications Group Co Lt d
CRRC Corporation
Dawning Information Industry Co. (Sugon)
Hikvision
Huawei
Inspur Group
Norinco
Panda Electronics
Sinochem Group Co Ltd

Appendix B to Part 586—Executive Order 14032 of June 3, 2021 Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Certain Companies of the People's Republic of China

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that additional steps are necessary to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13959 of November 12, 2020 (Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military Companies), including the threat posed by the military-industrial complex of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and its involvement in military, intelligence, and security research and development programs, and weapons and related equipment production under the PRC's Military-Civil Fusion strategy. In addition, I find that the use of Chinese surveillance technology outside the PRC and the development or use of Chinese surveillance technology to facilitate repression or serious human rights abuse constitute unusual and extraordinary threats, which have their source in whole or substantial part outside the United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States, and I hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13959 to address those threats.
Accordingly, I hereby order as follows:
Section 1. Sections 1 through 5 of Executive Order 13959, as amended by Executive Order 13974 of January 13, 2021 (Amending Executive Order 13959—Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military Companies), are hereby replaced and superseded in their entirety to read as follows:
Section 1.
Sections 1 through 5 of Executive Order 13959, as amended by Executive Order 13974 of January 13, 2021 (Amending Executive Order 13959—Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military Companies), are hereby replaced and superseded in their entirety to read as follows:
“Section 1. (a) The following activities by a United States person are prohibited: The purchase or sale of any publicly traded securities, or any publicly traded securities that are derivative of such securities or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of any person listed in the Annex to this order or of any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, and, as the Secretary of the Treasury deems appropriate, the Secretary of Defense:
Section 1.
(a) The following activities by a United States person are prohibited: The purchase or sale of any publicly traded securities, or any publicly traded securities that are derivative of such securities or are designed to provide investment exposure to such securities, of any person listed in the Annex to this order or of any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, and, as the Secretary of the Treasury deems appropriate, the Secretary of Defense:
(i) To operate or have operated in the defense and related materiel sector or the surveillance technology sector of the economy of the PRC; or
(ii) to own or control, or to be owned or controlled by, directly or indirectly, a person who operates or has operated in any sector described in subsection (a)(i) of this section, or a person who is listed in the Annex to this order or who has otherwise been determined to be subject to the prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section shall take effect:
(i) Beginning at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on August 2, 2021, with respect to any person listed in the Annex to this order; or
(ii) beginning at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date that is 60 days after the date of the determination in subsection (a) of this section with respect to any person not listed in the Annex to this order.
(c) The purchase or sale of publicly traded securities described in subsection (a) of this section made solely to effect the divestment, in whole or in part, of such securities by a United States person is permitted prior to:
(i) 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on June 3, 2022, with respect to any person listed in the Annex to this order; or
(ii) 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date that is 365 days after the date of the determination in subsection (a) of this section with respect to any person not listed in the Annex to this order.
(d) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 2.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 3. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 3.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(c) the term “publicly traded securities” includes any “security,” as defined in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Public Law 73-291 (as codified as amended at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)), denominated in any currency that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as “over-the-counter,” in any jurisdiction; and
(d) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 4. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies (agencies) of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 4.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies (agencies) of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 5. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 5.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 6. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, and, as the Secretary of the Treasury deems appropriate, the Secretary of Defense, is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the application of the prohibitions in section 1(a) of this order with respect to a person listed in the Annex to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination.”
Sec. 6.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, and, as the Secretary of the Treasury deems appropriate, the Secretary of Defense, is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the application of the prohibitions in section 1(a) of this order with respect to a person listed in the Annex to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination.”
Sec. 2. The Annex to Executive Order 13959 is replaced and superseded in its entirety by the Annex to this order.
Sec. 2.
The Annex to Executive Order 13959 is replaced and superseded in its entirety by the Annex to this order.
Sec. 3. Section 6 of Executive Order 13959 is amended to replace “Sec. 6.” with “Sec. 7.”
Sec. 3.
Section 6 of Executive Order 13959 is amended to replace “Sec. 6.” with “Sec. 7.”
Sec. 4. Executive Order 13974 is hereby revoked in its entirety. The Secretary of the Treasury and the heads of agencies shall take all necessary steps to rescind any orders or prohibitions issued prior to the date of this order implementing or enforcing Executive Order 13974 or the versions of sections 1 through 5 of Executive Order 13959 replaced and superseded by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 4.
Executive Order 13974 is hereby revoked in its entirety. The Secretary of the Treasury and the heads of agencies shall take all necessary steps to rescind any orders or prohibitions issued prior to the date of this order implementing or enforcing Executive Order 13974 or the versions of sections 1 through 5 of Executive Order 13959 replaced and superseded by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 5. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 5.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 3, 2021
Annex
AERO ENGINE CORPORATION OF CHINA
AEROSPACE CH UAV CO., LTD
AEROSPACE COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS GROUP COMPANY LIMITED
AEROSUN CORPORATION
ANHUI GREATWALL MILITARY INDUSTRY COMPANY LIMITED
AVIATION INDUSTRY CORPORATION OF CHINA, LTD.
AVIC AVIATION HIGH-TECHNOLOGY COMPANY LIMITED
AVIC HEAVY MACHINERY COMPANY LIMITED
AVIC JONHON OPTRONIC TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
AVIC SHENYANG AIRCRAFT COMPANY LIMITED
AVIC XI'AN AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY GROUP COMPANY LTD.
CHANGSHA JINGJIA MICROELECTRONICS COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA ACADEMY OF LAUNCH VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY
CHINA AEROSPACE SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY CORPORATION LIMITED CHINA AEROSPACE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
CHINA AEROSPACE TIMES ELECTRONICS CO., LTD
CHINA AVIONICS SYSTEMS COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA COMMUNICATIONS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA COMMUNICATIONS CONSTRUCTION GROUP (LIMITED)
CHINA ELECTRONICS CORPORATION
CHINA ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY GROUP CORPORATION
CHINA GENERAL NUCLEAR POWER CORPORATION
CHINA MARINE INFORMATION ELECTRONICS COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS GROUP CO., LTD.
CHINA MOBILE LIMITED
CHINA NATIONAL NUCLEAR CORPORATION
CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORPORATION
CHINA NORTH INDUSTRIES GROUP CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA NUCLEAR ENGINEERING CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA RAILWAY CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS CO., LTD.
CHINA SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY GROUP POWER COMPANY LIMITED
CHINA SOUTH INDUSTRIES GROUP CORPORATION
CHINA SPACESAT CO., LTD.
CHINA STATE SHIPBUILDING CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA TELECOM CORPORATION LIMITED
CHINA TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CHINA UNITED NETWORK COMMUNICATIONS GROUP CO., LTD.
CNOOC LIMITED
COSTAR GROUP CO., LTD.
CSSC OFFSHORE & MARINE ENGINEERING (GROUP) COMPANY LIMITED
FUJIAN TORCH ELECTRON TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
GUIZHOU SPACE APPLIANCE CO., LTD
HANGZHOU HIKVISION DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
HUAWEI INVESTMENT & HOLDING CO., LTD.
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.
INNER MONGOLIA FIRST MACHINERY GROUP CO., LTD.
INSPUR GROUP CO., LTD.
JIANGXI HONGDU AVIATION INDUSTRY CO., LTD.
NANJING PANDA ELECTRONICS COMPANY LIMITED
NORTH NAVIGATION CONTROL TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD.
PANDA ELECTRONICS GROUP CO., LTD.
PROVEN GLORY CAPITAL LIMITED
PROVEN HONOUR CAPITAL LIMITED
SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
SHAANXI ZHONGTIAN ROCKET TECHNOLOGY COMPANY LIMITED
ZHONGHANG ELECTRONIC MEASURING INSTRUMENTS COMPANY LIMITED

PART 587—RUSSIAN HARMFUL FOREIGN ACTIVITIES SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14024, 86 FR 20249, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 542.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14024, 86 FR 20249, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 542.
[Source:87 FR 11297, Mar. 1, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 11297, Mar. 1, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 587.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 587.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive guidance and definitions, general licenses, and other regulatory provisions.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 587.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14024 of April 15, 2021 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
(b) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14024 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 587.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 14024, or listed in, or designated or identified as blocked pursuant to, any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[RUSSIA-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 587.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[RUSSIA-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 587.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 587.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: “[BPI-RUSSIA-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: “[BPI-RUSSIA-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 587.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 587.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[87 FR 11297, Mar. 1, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75966, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 587.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 587.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 587.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 587.201.

§ 587.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 587.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 587.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 587.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 587.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 587.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 587.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 587.205   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) Official business. The prohibitions contained in § 587.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or the United Nations (including its Specialized Agencies, Programmes, Funds, and Related Organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 587.201(a) do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government or the United Nations (including its Specialized Agencies, Programmes, Funds, and Related Organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 587.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 587.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 587.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 587.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 587.301.
See § 587.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201.
See
§ 587.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201.

§ 587.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and, with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 587.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 587.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 587.305   Government of the Russian Federation.

The term Government of the Russian Federation means the Government of the Russian Federation, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of the Russian Federation.
Government of the Russian Federation
means the Government of the Russian Federation, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of the Russian Federation.

§ 587.306   [Reserved]


§ 587.307   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 587.308   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 587.308.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 587.309   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 587.310   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 587.311   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 587.312   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 587.313   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 587.314   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 587.315   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 587.401   [Reserved]


§ 587.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 587.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 587.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 587.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 587.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 587.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 587.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 587.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 587.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Russian Harmful Foreign Activities sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 587.502   [Reserved]


§ 587.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 587.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 587.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 587.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 587.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 587.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 587.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 587.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 587.404.
See
§ 587.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 587.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 587.506.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 587.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 587.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 587.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 587.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 587.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 11297, Mar. 1, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103648, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 587.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 587.509   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 587.510   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.

Subpart F—Reports


§ 587.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 587.701   Penalties and Findings of Violation.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
et seq.
) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 587.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 587.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 587.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 587—Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021

Executive Order 14024 of April 15, 2021
Blocking Property With Respect To Specified Harmful Foreign Activities of the Government of the Russian Federation.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that specified harmful foreign activities of the Government of the Russian Federation—in particular, efforts to undermine the conduct of free and fair democratic elections and democratic institutions in the United States and its allies and partners; to engage in and facilitate malicious cyber-enabled activities against the United States and its allies and partners; to foster and use transnational corruption to influence foreign governments; to pursue extraterritorial activities targeting dissidents or journalists; to undermine security in countries and regions important to United States national security; and to violate well-established principles of international law, including respect for the territorial integrity of states—constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.
Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1. All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
Section 1.
All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(a) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, and, with respect to subsection (a)(ii) of this section, in consultation with the Attorney General, or by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, and, with respect to subsection (a)(ii) of this section, in consultation with the Attorney General:
(i) To operate or have operated in the technology sector or the defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy, or any other sector of the Russian Federation economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(ii) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following for or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, directly or indirectly, the Government of the Russian Federation:
(A) Malicious cyber-enabled activities;
(B) interference in a United States or other foreign government election;
(C) actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in the United States or abroad;
(D) transnational corruption;
(E) assassination, murder, or other unlawful killing of, or infliction of other bodily harm against, a United States person or a citizen or national of a United States ally or partner;
(F) activities that undermine the peace, security, political stability, or territorial integrity of the United States, its allies, or its partners; or
(G) deceptive or structured transactions or dealings to circumvent any United States sanctions, including through the use of digital currencies or assets or the use of physical assets;
(iii) to be or have been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors of:
(A) The Government of the Russian Federation;
(B) an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section; or
(C) an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
(iv) to be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the Government of the Russian Federation;
(v) to be a spouse or adult child of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsection (a)(ii) or (iii) of this section;
(vi) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(A) Any activity described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section; or
(B) any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(vii) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the Government of the Russian Federation or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, a government whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to chapter V of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations or another Executive Order, and to be:
(i) A citizen or national of the Russian Federation;
(ii) an entity organized under the laws of the Russian Federation or any jurisdiction within the Russian Federation (including foreign branches); or
(iii) a person ordinarily resident in the Russian Federation.
(c) any person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in or attempted to engage in, cutting or disrupting gas or energy supplies to Europe, the Caucasus, or Asia, and to be:
(i) An individual who is a citizen or national of the Russian Federation; or
(ii) an entity organized under the laws of the Russian Federation or any jurisdiction within the Russian Federation (including foreign branches).
(d) The prohibitions in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 2. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
Sec. 2.
The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 3. (a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
Sec. 3.
(a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
(b) The Secretary of State shall implement this authority as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.
(c) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may establish.
(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 4. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 4.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 5. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 5.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 6. For the purposes of this order:
Sec. 6.
For the purposes of this order:
(a) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “Government of the Russian Federation” means the Government of the Russian Federation, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and any person owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of the Russian Federation;
(c) the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States;
(d) the term “person” means an individual or entity; and
(e) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 7. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 7.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 8. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 8.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 9. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.
Sec. 9.
Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.
Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 11. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 11.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) The authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 15, 2021.

PART 588—WESTERN BALKANS STABILIZATION REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13219, 66 FR 34777, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 778; E.O. 13304, 68 FR 32315, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 229; E.O. 14033, 86 FR 43905, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 591.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
22 U.S.C. 287c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13219, 66 FR 34777, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 778; E.O. 13304, 68 FR 32315, 3 CFR, 2004 Comp., p. 229; E.O. 14033, 86 FR 43905, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 591.
[Source:87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 588.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 588.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) E.O. 13219 Annex. The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13219 of June 26, 2001, as amended by E.O. 13304 of May 28, 2003; and
E.O. 13219 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13219 of June 26, 2001, as amended by E.O. 13304 of May 28, 2003; and
(2) E.O. 13219 as amended by E.O. 13304. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13219 as amended by E.O. 13304.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be under open indictment by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, unless circumstances warrant otherwise;
(ii) To have committed, or to pose a significant risk of committing, acts of violence that have the purpose or effect of threatening the peace in or diminishing the stability or security of any area or state in the Western Balkans region, undermining the authority, efforts, or objectives of international organizations or entities present in the region, or endangering the safety of persons participating in or providing support to the activities of those international organizations or entities;
(iii) To have actively obstructed, or pose a significant risk of actively obstructing, the Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001 relating to Macedonia, UNSCR 1244 relating to Kosovo, or the Dayton Accords or the Conclusions of the Peace Implementation Conference held in London on December 8-9, 1995, including the decisions or conclusions of the High Representative, the Peace Implementation Council or its Steering Board, relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina;
(iv) To have materially assisted in, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, such acts of violence or obstructionism or any person listed in or designated pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or this paragraph (a)(2); or
(v) To be owned or controlled by, or acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly for or on behalf of, any person listed in or designated pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or this paragraph (a)(2).
(3) E.O. 14033. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 14033.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of any area or state in the Western Balkans;
(ii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in the Western Balkans;
(iii) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, a violation of, or an act that has obstructed or threatened the implementation of, any regional security, peace, cooperation, or mutual recognition agreement or framework or accountability mechanism related to the Western Balkans, including the Prespa Agreement of 2018; the Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001; United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244; the Dayton Accords; or the Conclusions of the Peace Implementation Conference Council held in London in December 1995, including the decisions or conclusions of the High Representative, the Peace Implementation Council, or its Steering Board; or the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, or, with respect to the former Yugoslavia, the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals;
(iv) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, serious human rights abuse in the Western Balkans;
(v) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged in, corruption related to the Western Balkans, including corruption by, on behalf of, or otherwise related to a government in the Western Balkans, or a current or former government official at any level of government in the Western Balkans, such as the misappropriation of public assets, expropriation of private assets for personal gain or political purposes, or bribery;
(vi) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph this (a)(3); or
(vii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(3).
(b) The prohibitions of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after June 8, 2021 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219 of June 27, 2001 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 588.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13219; E.O. 13219, as amended by E.O. 13304 of May 28, 2003 (“amended E.O. 13219”); E.O. 14033; or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13219 and amended E.O. 13219: “BALKANS”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219: using the identifier formulation “BALKANS-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 588.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13219 and amended E.O. 13219: “BALKANS”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219: using the identifier formulation “BALKANS-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 588.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 588.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13219 or amended E.O. 13219: “[BPI-BALKANS]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219: “[BPI-BALKANS-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13219 or amended E.O. 13219: “[BPI-BALKANS]”; for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13219: “[BPI-BALKANS-EO[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 588.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 588.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75966, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 588.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 588.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 588.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 588.201.

§ 588.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 588.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 588.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 588.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 588.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 588.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 588.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 588.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 588.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 588.206   Exempt transactions.

(a) United Nations Participation Act. The exemptions cited in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
United Nations Participation Act.
The exemptions cited in this section do not apply to transactions involving property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
).
Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the authority of the UNPA include those listed on both OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (see https://www.un.org).
both
OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List and the Consolidated United Nations Security Council Sanctions List (
see https://www.un.org).
(b) International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any transactions that are exempt pursuant to section 203(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)).
(c) Official business. The prohibitions contained in § 588.201(a)(3) do not apply to any transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in § 588.201(a)(3) do not apply to any transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 588.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 588.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 588.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 588.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 588.301.
See § 588.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
See
§ 588.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.

§ 588.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201(a)(1), whose name appeared on the Annex to E.O. 13219 as originally issued and also appeared on the Annex to E.O. 13304, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time June 27, 2001;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201(a)(1), whose name first appeared on the Annex to E.O. 13304, which replaced and superseded the Annex to E.O. 13219, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time May 29, 2003; and
(3) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 588.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
onstructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 588.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 588.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 588.305   [Reserved]


§ 588.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 588.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 588.307.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]]

§ 588.308   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 588.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 588.310   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 588.311   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 588.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 588.313   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 588.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 588.315   Western Balkans.

The term Western Balkans means the territory of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Albania.
Western Balkans
means the territory of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Albania.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 588.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 588.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 588.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 588.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 588.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 588.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.

§ 588.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 588.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 588.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by, or at the direction of, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
Note 1 to § 588.405.
See §§ 588.507 and 588.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 588.507 and 588.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]]

§ 588.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 588.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 588.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 588.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 588.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 588.407.
See also § 588.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 588.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 588.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 588.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 588.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.

§ 588.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 588.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 588.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 588.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Balkans-Related sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.

§ 588.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 588.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 588.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 588.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 588.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 588.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 588.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 588.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 588.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 588.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201.

§ 588.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 588.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 588.404.
See
§ 588.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 588.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 588.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 588.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 588.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 588.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 588.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 588.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103648, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 588.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 588.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 588.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(e) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria and the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations.

§ 588.512   Authorizing certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 588.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]]

§ 588.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 588.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78503, Dec. 21, 2022. Redesignated at 88 FR 25492, Apr. 27, 2023]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 588.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 588.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Section 5(b) of the United Nations Participation Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)) (UNPA), provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to Section 5(a) of the UNPA shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000 and, if a natural person, may also be imprisoned for not more than 20 years or both.
(e) Violations involving transactions described at section 203(b)(1) of IEEPA shall be subject only to the penalties set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 588.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 588.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 588.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 588.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; Default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Office of Compliance and Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 588.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 588.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13219 of June 26, 2001, as amended by E.O. 13304 of May 28, 2003, E.O. 14033 of June 8, 2021, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 588.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 589—UKRAINE-/RUSSIA-RELATED SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 8901-8910, 8921-8930; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.); E.O. 13660, 79 FR 13493, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 226; E.O. 13661, 79 FR 15535, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 229; E.O. 13662, 79 FR 16169, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 233; E.O. 13685, 79 FR 77357, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 313., E.O. 13849, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 875, E.O. 14065, 87 FR 10293, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 340.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 8901-8910, 8921-8930; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.); E.O. 13660, 79 FR 13493, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 226; E.O. 13661, 79 FR 15535, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 229; E.O. 13662, 79 FR 16169, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 233; E.O. 13685, 79 FR 77357, 3 CFR, 2014 Comp., p. 313., E.O. 13849, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 875, E.O. 14065, 87 FR 10293, 3 CFR, 2022 Comp., p. 340.
[Source:87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 589.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 589.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Executive Order (E.O.) 13660. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
Executive Order (E.O.) 13660.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be responsible for or complicit in, or to have engaged in, directly or indirectly, any of the following:
(A) Actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions in Ukraine;
(B) Actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Ukraine; or
(C) Misappropriation of state assets of Ukraine or of an economically significant entity in Ukraine;
(ii) To have asserted governmental authority over any part or region of Ukraine without the authorization of the Government of Ukraine;
(iii) To be a leader of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) or of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1);
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any activity described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1);
(v) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1);
(2) E.O. 13661 Annex. The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13661 of March 16, 2014;
E.O. 13661 Annex.
The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13661 of March 16, 2014;
(3) E.O. 13661. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13661.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To be an official of the Government of the Russian Federation;
(ii) To operate in the arms or related materiel sector in the Russian Federation;
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly:
(A) A senior official of the Government of the Russian Federation; or
(B) A person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section or this paragraph (a)(3); or
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(A) A senior official of the Government of the Russian Federation; or
(B) A person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section or this paragraph (a)(3);
(4) E.O. 13662 and Secretary of the Treasury determinations. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13662 and Secretary of the Treasury determinations.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To operate in the defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(ii) To operate in the financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(iii) To operate in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(iv) To be a state-owned entity operating in the railway sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(v) To be a state-owned entity operating in the metals and mining sector of the Russian Federation economy;
(vi) To operate in any other sectors of the Russian Federation economy as may be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
)(4)(
vi
):
Any sector in the Russian Federation economy that is determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be subject to this paragraph (a)(4)(vi) will be so identified in a publication in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.
(vii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4); or
(viii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4);
(5) E.O. 13685. Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
E.O. 13685.
Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) To operate in the Crimea region of Ukraine;
(ii) To be a leader of an entity operating in the Crimea region of Ukraine;
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(5); or
(iv) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a)(5);
(6) Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8901-8910) (SSIDES). (i) Any person, including a current or former official of the Government of Ukraine or a person acting on behalf of that Government, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines has perpetrated, or is responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, significant acts of violence or gross human rights abuses in Ukraine against persons associated with the antigovernment protests in Ukraine that began on November 21, 2013;
Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8901-8910) (SSIDES).
(i) Any person, including a current or former official of the Government of Ukraine or a person acting on behalf of that Government, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines has perpetrated, or is responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, significant acts of violence or gross human rights abuses in Ukraine against persons associated with the antigovernment protests in Ukraine that began on November 21, 2013;
(ii) Any person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines has perpetrated, or is responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, significant acts that are intended to undermine the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Ukraine, including acts of economic extortion;
(iii) Any official of the Government of the Russian Federation, or a close associate or family member of such an official, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines is responsible for, complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, acts of significant corruption in Ukraine, including the expropriation of private or public assets for personal gain, corruption related to government contracts or the extraction of natural resources, bribery, or the facilitation or transfer of the proceeds of corruption to foreign jurisdictions;
(iv) Any individual that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, the commission of acts described in paragraph (a)(6)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(v) Any official of the Government of the Russian Federation, or a close associate or family member of such an official, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines is, on or after August 2, 2017, responsible for, or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, acts of significant corruption in the Russian Federation or elsewhere, including the expropriation of private or public assets for personal gain, corruption related to government contracts or the extraction of natural resources, bribery, or the facilitation or transfer of the proceeds of corruption to foreign jurisdictions;
(vi) Any individual who has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, an act described in paragraph (a)(6)(v) of this section and has been added to the SDN List for such behavior;
(vii) A foreign person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines knowingly, on or after August 2, 2017:
(A) Materially violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition contained in or issued pursuant to any covered Executive order, SSIDES, or the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA); or
(B) Facilitates a significant transaction or transactions, including deceptive or structured transactions, for or on behalf of:
(1) Any person subject to sanctions imposed by the United States with respect to the Russian Federation; or
1
) Any person subject to sanctions imposed by the United States with respect to the Russian Federation; or
(2) Any child, spouse, parent, or sibling of an individual described in paragraph (a)(6)(vii)(B)(1) of this section.
2
) Any child, spouse, parent, or sibling of an individual described in paragraph (a)(6)(vii)(B)(
1
) of this section.
(viii) A foreign person that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines, based on credible information, on or after August 2, 2017:
(A) Is responsible for, complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the commission of serious human rights abuses in any territory forcibly occupied or otherwise controlled by the Government of the Russian Federation;
(B) Materially assists, sponsors, or provides financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to, a foreign person described in paragraph (a)(6)(viii)(A) of this section; or
(C) Is owned or controlled by, or acts or purports to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, a foreign person described in paragraph (a)(6)(viii)(A) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after December 19, 2014 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660 of March 6, 2014, are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 2 to § 589.201:
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, or E.O. 13685 are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the following identifiers: for E.O. 13660: “[UKRAINE-EO13660]”; for E.O. 13661: “[UKRAINE-EO13661]”; for E.O. 13662: “[UKRAINE-EO13662]”; and for E.O. 13685: “[UKRAINE-EO13685].” Except as described in note 4 to this section, the names of persons listed in, or designated or identified pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier formulation “[UKRAINE-E.O.[number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” Except as described in note 4 to this section, the names of persons designated pursuant to SSIDES, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[SSIDES].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or blocked pursuant to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with certain Ukraine/Russia-related activities, may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the following identifiers: for E.O. 13660: “[UKRAINE-EO13660]”; for E.O. 13661: “[UKRAINE-EO13661]”; for E.O. 13662: “[UKRAINE-EO13662]”; and for E.O. 13685: “[UKRAINE-EO13685].” Except as described in note 4 to this section, the names of persons listed in, or designated or identified pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier formulation “[UKRAINE-E.O.[number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” Except as described in note 4 to this section, the names of persons designated pursuant to SSIDES, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[SSIDES].” Certain transactions with persons blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or blocked pursuant to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V in connection with certain Ukraine/Russia-related activities, may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such blocked persons' entries on the SDN List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 3 to § 589.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), and SSIDES authorize the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section also are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13660: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13660]”; for E.O. 13661: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13661]”; for E.O. 13662: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13662]”; for E.O. 13685: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13685]”; for SSIDES: “[BPI-SSIDES]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660: “[BPI-UKRAINE-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), and SSIDES authorize the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section also are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: for E.O. 13660: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13660]”; for E.O. 13661: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13661]”; for E.O. 13662: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13662]”; for E.O. 13685: “[BPI-UKRAINE-EO13685]”; for SSIDES: “[BPI-SSIDES]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660: “[BPI-UKRAINE-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 4 to § 589.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 5 to § 589.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75966, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 589.202   Prohibited transactions with respect to the financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 1).

The following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited:
(a) For new debt or new equity issued on or after July 16, 2014 and before September 12, 2014, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 90 days maturity or new equity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property;
(b) For new debt or new equity issued on or after September 12, 2014 and before November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 30 days maturity or new equity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property; and
(c) For new debt or new equity issued on or after November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 14 days maturity or new equity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property.
Note 1 to § 589.202:
The names of persons subject to this section (and earlier versions of Directive 1) are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 1.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible via the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac. See § 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions in this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 1.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible via the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac. See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions in this section.
Note 2 to § 589.202:
Section 216 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511) (CAATSA) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662. Section 222 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9522) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662.

§ 589.203   Prohibited transactions with respect to financing activities in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 2).

The following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited:
(a) For new debt issued on or after July 16, 2014 and before November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 90 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property; and
(b) For new debt issued on or after November 28, 2017, all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 60 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property.
Note 1 to § 589.203:
The names of persons subject to this section (and earlier versions of Directive 2) are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 2.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible through the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac. See § 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions in this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 2.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible through the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac. See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions in this section.
Note 2 to § 589.203:
Section 216 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662. Section 222 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9522) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662.

§ 589.204   Prohibited transactions with respect to the defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 3).

All transactions in, provision of financing for, and other dealings in new debt of longer than 30 days maturity of persons determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property by a U.S. person or within in the United States are prohibited.
Note 1 to § 589.204:
The names of persons subject to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 3.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible via the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac. See § 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions of this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 3.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible via the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac. See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions of this section.
Note 2 to § 589.204:
Section 216 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662. Section 222 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9522) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662.

§ 589.205   Prohibited transactions with respect to oil-producing activities in the energy sector of the Russian Federation economy (Directive 4).

The following activities by a U.S. person or within the United States are prohibited: The provision, exportation, or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of goods, services (except for financial services), or technology in support of exploration or production for deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale projects:
(a) That have the potential to produce oil in the Russian Federation, or in maritime area claimed by the Russian Federation and extending from its territory, and that involve any person determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property; or
(b) That are initiated on or after January 29, 2018, that have the potential to produce oil in any location, and in which any person determined to be subject to this section, their property, or their interests in property has a 33 percent or greater ownership interest, or ownership of a majority of the voting interests.
Note 1 to § 589.205:
This section does not apply to projects that have the potential to produce gas only.
Note 2 to § 589.205:
The names of persons subject to this section (and earlier versions of Directive 4) are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 4.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible through the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac. See § 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions of this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) with the descriptive text “Executive Order 13662 Directive Determination—Subject to Directive 4.” Certain transactions with persons subject to this section may result in the imposition of secondary sanctions, and therefore such persons' entries on the SSI List will also include the descriptive prefix text “Secondary sanctions risk:”, followed by information about the applicable secondary sanctions authority. The SSI List is accessible through the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac. See
§ 589.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SSI List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless subject to the prohibitions of this section.
Note 3 to § 589.205:
See § 589.412 concerning projects in which persons subject to paragraph (b) of this section own a 33 percent or greater ownership interest, or ownership of a majority of the voting interests.
See
§ 589.412 concerning projects in which persons subject to paragraph (b) of this section own a 33 percent or greater ownership interest, or ownership of a majority of the voting interests.
Note 4 to § 589.205:
See § 746.5 of the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) for the Department of Commerce's related license requirement on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain items for use in specified deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale projects.
See
§ 746.5 of the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) for the Department of Commerce's related license requirement on exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) of certain items for use in specified deepwater, Arctic offshore, or shale projects.
Note 5 to § 589.205:
Section 216 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662. Section 222 of CAATSA (22 U.S.C. 9522) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to E.O. 13662.

§ 589.206   Prohibited new investment in the Crimea region of Ukraine.

Except as otherwise authorized, new investment, as defined in § 589.326, in the Crimea region of Ukraine by a United States person, wherever located, is prohibited.

§ 589.207   Prohibited exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of goods, services, or technology to the Crimea region of Ukraine.

Except as otherwise authorized, the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply, directly or indirectly, from the United States, or by a United States person, wherever located, of any goods, services, or technology to the Crimea region of Ukraine is prohibited.

§ 589.208   Prohibited importation of goods, services, or technology from the Crimea region of Ukraine.

Except as otherwise authorized, the importation into the United States, directly or indirectly, of any goods, services, or technology from the Crimea region of Ukraine is prohibited.

§ 589.209   Prohibitions or strict conditions with respect to correspondent or payable-through accounts of foreign financial institutions that have knowingly facilitated certain significant transactions.

(a) Prohibited activities. A U.S. financial institution shall not:
Prohibited activities.
A U.S. financial institution shall not:
(1) Open or maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution for which the opening or maintaining of such an account is prohibited pursuant to this section; or
(2) Maintain a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for a foreign financial institution in a manner that is inconsistent with any strict condition imposed and in effect pursuant to this section.
(b) Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions involving certain activity for persons with respect to which sanctions are imposed pursuant to section 4 of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA). The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution knowingly engages, on or after August 2, 2017, in significant transactions involving the following activities for persons with respect to which sanctions are imposed pursuant to section 4 of UFSA (22 U.S.C. 8923):
Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions involving certain activity for persons with respect to which sanctions are imposed pursuant to section 4 of the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA).
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution knowingly engages, on or after August 2, 2017, in significant transactions involving the following activities for persons with respect to which sanctions are imposed pursuant to section 4 of UFSA (22 U.S.C. 8923):
(1) Knowingly manufacturing or selling defense articles transferred into Syria or into the territory of a specified country without the consent of the internationally recognized government of that country;
(2) Transferring defense articles into Syria or into the territory of a specified country without the consent of the internationally recognized government of that country; or
(3) Brokering or otherwise assisting in the transfer of defense articles into Syria or into the territory of a specified country without the consent of the internationally recognized government of that country; or
(4) Knowingly, on or after December 18, 2014, assisting, sponsoring, or providing financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any entity owned or controlled by the Government of the Russian Federation or owned or controlled by nationals of the Russian Federation; and with respect to an activity described in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section;
(5) Knowingly making a significant investment in a special Russian crude oil project; or
(6) The withholding by Gazprom of significant natural gas supplies from member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or further withholding by Gazprom of significant natural gas supplies from countries such as Ukraine, Georgia, or Moldova.
Note 1 to paragraph (
b
):
Persons with respect to which sanctions are imposed pursuant to section 4 of UFSA (22 U.S.C. 8923) will be identified either on OFAC's Non-SDN Menu-Based List (NS-MBS List) or on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List). Upon the imposition of non-blocking sanctions from a menu of sanctions as provided by section 4 of UFSA, OFAC will place the name and other relevant identifiers of the sanctioned person on the NS-MBS List. The NS-MBS List also will specify the type of sanction or sanctions imposed on the listed person and the legal authority under which the person is sanctioned. When blocking is chosen as a menu-based sanction and imposed on a person, that person is identified solely on OFAC's SDN List, along with any other menu-based sanctions imposed on that person.
(c) Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions on behalf of Russian persons included on the SDN List. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution has, on or after September 1, 2017, knowingly facilitated a significant financial transaction on behalf of any Russian person included on OFAC's SDN List pursuant to UFSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, or any other Executive order addressing the crisis in Ukraine.
Sanctionable activity by foreign financial institutions on behalf of Russian persons included on the SDN List.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may determine that a foreign financial institution has, on or after September 1, 2017, knowingly facilitated a significant financial transaction on behalf of any Russian person included on OFAC's SDN List pursuant to UFSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, or any other Executive order addressing the crisis in Ukraine.
Note 2 to paragraph (
c
):
For information regarding persons included on OFAC's SDN List pursuant to UFSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, or E.O. 13662, or any other Executive order issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660, including identifier information for entries on the SDN List, see note 1 to § 589.201.
see
note 1 to § 589.201.
(d) Imposition of sanctions on foreign financial institutions. Upon determining that a foreign financial institution has engaged in sanctionable activity described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall:
Imposition of sanctions on foreign financial institutions.
Upon determining that a foreign financial institution has engaged in sanctionable activity described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall:
(1) Prohibit the opening by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution; and
(2) Prohibit or impose one or more strict conditions on the maintaining by a U.S. financial institution of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States for the foreign financial institution. Such conditions may include the following:
(i) Prohibiting or restricting any provision of trade finance through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(ii) Restricting the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution to certain types of transactions, such as personal remittances;
(iii) Placing monetary limits on, or limiting the volume of, the transactions that may be processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution;
(iv) Requiring pre-approval from the U.S. financial institution for all transactions processed through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution; or
(v) Prohibiting or restricting the processing of foreign exchange transactions through the correspondent account or payable-through account of the foreign financial institution.
Note 3 to § 589.209:
The names of foreign financial institutions for which the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States is prohibited and for which the maintaining of a correspondent account or payable-through account is prohibited or subject to one or more strict conditions pursuant to this section will be added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List) on OFAC's website (www.treas.gov/ofac), and published in the Federal Register along with the applicable prohibition or strict condition(s).
www.treas.gov/ofac
), and published in the
Federal Register
along with the applicable prohibition or strict condition(s).
Note 4 to § 589.209:
Section 216 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511) (CAATSA) requires Congressional review prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant to UFSA. Section 5(g) of UFSA (22 U.S.C. 8924(g)) describes the Congressional notification required prior to the termination of sanctions imposed pursuant section 5 of UFSA.

§ 589.210   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 589.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 589.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 589.201.

§ 589.211   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 589.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 589.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 589.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 589.212   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 589.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 589.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 589.213   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 589.214   Exempt transactions.

(a) Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
(b) U.S. intelligence activities. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.), or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
U.S. intelligence activities.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091
et seq.
), or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
(c) Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), including the supply by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or service, or the procurement of such product or service by any contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch conducted for NASA or any other non-Department of Defense customer.
Activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to activities of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), including the supply by any entity of the Russian Federation of any product or service, or the procurement of such product or service by any contractor or subcontractor of the United States or any other entity, relating to or in connection with any space launch conducted for NASA or any other non-Department of Defense customer.
(d) Importation of goods. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation of any goods that would otherwise be prohibited solely because of the interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to § 589.201(a)(6)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v). For the purposes of this paragraph (d), the term “good(s)” means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.
Importation of goods.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to the importation of any goods that would otherwise be prohibited solely because of the interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to § 589.201(a)(6)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v). For the purposes of this paragraph (d), the term “good(s)” means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.
(e) Official business. The prohibitions contained in §§ 589.201(a)(5), 589.206, 589.207, and 589.208 do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Official business.
The prohibitions contained in §§ 589.201(a)(5), 589.206, 589.207, and 589.208 do not apply to transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
Note 1 to paragraph (
e
):
See § 589.510 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government not otherwise exempt.
See
§ 589.510 for a general license authorizing transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government not otherwise exempt.

§ 589.215   Prohibited facilitation.

Except as otherwise authorized, U.S. persons, wherever located, are prohibited from approving, financing, facilitating, or guaranteeing a transaction by a foreign person where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by § 589.206, § 589.207, or § 589.208 of this part if performed by a U.S. person or within the United States.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 589.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 589.301   Arctic offshore projects.

(a) The term Arctic offshore projects as used in § 589.205 means projects that have the potential to produce oil in areas that—
Arctic offshore projects
as used in § 589.205 means projects that have the potential to produce oil in areas that—
(1) Involve drilling operations originating offshore, and
(2) Are located above the Arctic Circle.
(b) The term Arctic offshore projects as used in § 589.205 does not apply to horizontal drilling operations originating onshore where such drilling operations extend under the seabed to areas above the Arctic Circle.
Arctic offshore projects
as used in § 589.205 does not apply to horizontal drilling operations originating onshore where such drilling operations extend under the seabed to areas above the Arctic Circle.

§ 589.302   Arms or related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy.

The term arms or related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy includes: The procurement, development, test manufacture, maintenance, upgrade and refurbishment, shipping, supply, sale, and storage to, from, within, or transiting the Russian Federation of arms or related materiel of all types, including any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, or related materiel; critical enablers, aggregates, components, parts, as well as related documentation and instructions for such items; or training for the use of included systems, provision of simulation equipment, documentation (including training manuals, maintenance orders, or technical bulletins), prototypes, software upgrades, and licensing and manufacturing agreements for such items.
arms or related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes: The procurement, development, test manufacture, maintenance, upgrade and refurbishment, shipping, supply, sale, and storage to, from, within, or transiting the Russian Federation of arms or related materiel of all types, including any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, or related materiel; critical enablers, aggregates, components, parts, as well as related documentation and instructions for such items; or training for the use of included systems, provision of simulation equipment, documentation (including training manuals, maintenance orders, or technical bulletins), prototypes, software upgrades, and licensing and manufacturing agreements for such items.

§ 589.303   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 589.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 589.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 589.303:
See § 589.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
See
§ 589.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.

§ 589.304   Correspondent account.

The term correspondent account means an account established by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution.
correspondent account
means an account established by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution.

§ 589.305   Covered Executive order.

The term covered Executive order means any of the following: Executive Order (E.O.) 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, E.O. 13685, E.O. 13694, relating to the Russian Federation, or E.O. 13757, relating to the Russian Federation.
covered Executive order
means any of the following: Executive Order (E.O.) 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, E.O. 13685, E.O. 13694, relating to the Russian Federation, or E.O. 13757, relating to the Russian Federation.

§ 589.306   Crimea region of Ukraine.

The term Crimea region of Ukraine includes the land territory in that region as well as any maritime areas over which sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction is claimed based on purported sovereignty over that land territory.
Crimea region of Ukraine
includes the land territory in that region as well as any maritime areas over which sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction is claimed based on purported sovereignty over that land territory.

§ 589.307   Debt.

The term debt as used in §§ 589.202 through 589.204 includes bonds, loans, extensions of credit, loan guarantees, letters of credit, drafts, bankers' acceptances, discount notes or bills, or commercial paper.
debt
as used in §§ 589.202 through 589.204 includes bonds, loans, extensions of credit, loan guarantees, letters of credit, drafts, bankers' acceptances, discount notes or bills, or commercial paper.

§ 589.308   Deepwater projects.

The term deepwater projects as used in § 589.205 means projects that involve underwater activities at depths of more than 500 feet.
deepwater projects
as used in § 589.205 means projects that involve underwater activities at depths of more than 500 feet.

§ 589.309   Defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy.

The term defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy includes: The military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation; the military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation's use of arms or related materiel; and any person manufacturing, supplying, providing financing for, procuring, or distributing goods, services, or technology to the military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation; or financing, developing, testing, producing, or sustaining such goods or services or technology, or arms or related materiel, within or transiting the Russian Federation.
defense and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes: The military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation; the military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation's use of arms or related materiel; and any person manufacturing, supplying, providing financing for, procuring, or distributing goods, services, or technology to the military, armed forces, or security forces of the Russian Federation; or financing, developing, testing, producing, or sustaining such goods or services or technology, or arms or related materiel, within or transiting the Russian Federation.

§ 589.310   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201(a)(2), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, March 17, 2014;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 589.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked;
(3) With respect to the transactions prohibited by § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that a person was added to the Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List);
(4) With respect to the transactions prohibited by §§ 589.206 through 589.208, 3:30 p.m. eastern standard time, December 19, 2014; and
(5) With respect to the transactions prohibited by § 589.209, the effective date of a prohibition on the opening or a prohibition or strict condition imposed on the maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account in the United States by a U.S. financial institution for a particular foreign financial institution pursuant to § 589.209(d) is the earlier of the date the U.S. financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such prohibition or condition.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property, or a notice of the person's addition to the SSI List, or a notice of the imposition of a prohibition or strict condition pursuant to § 589.209, is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property, or a notice of the person's addition to the SSI List, or a notice of the imposition of a prohibition or strict condition pursuant to § 589.209, is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 589.311   Energy sector of the Russian Federation economy.

The term energy sector of the Russian Federation economy includes the procurement, exploration, extraction, drilling, mining, harvesting, production, refinement, liquefaction, gasification, regasification, conversion, enrichment, fabrication, or transport to, from, or within the Russian Federation, of petroleum, natural gas, liquified natural gas, natural gas liquids, or petroleum products or other products capable of producing energy, such as coal or wood or agricultural products used to manufacture biofuels, the development, production, generation, transmission or exchange of power, through any means, including nuclear, electrical, thermal, and renewable, in or involving the Russian Federation.
energy sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes the procurement, exploration, extraction, drilling, mining, harvesting, production, refinement, liquefaction, gasification, regasification, conversion, enrichment, fabrication, or transport to, from, or within the Russian Federation, of petroleum, natural gas, liquified natural gas, natural gas liquids, or petroleum products or other products capable of producing energy, such as coal or wood or agricultural products used to manufacture biofuels, the development, production, generation, transmission or exchange of power, through any means, including nuclear, electrical, thermal, and renewable, in or involving the Russian Federation.

§ 589.312   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 589.313   Equity.

The term equity as used in § 589.202 includes stocks, share issuances, depositary receipts, or any other evidence of title or ownership.
equity
as used in § 589.202 includes stocks, share issuances, depositary receipts, or any other evidence of title or ownership.

§ 589.314   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 589.315   Financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy.

The financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy includes economic or financial services, including government-operated and private banks and financial institutions, credit card companies, investment banking services, foreign exchange services, money services businesses, payday lenders, mortgage companies, securities exchanges, securities dealers, asset managers, and insurance services, or any entities that are engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent, in or involving the Russian Federation.
financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes economic or financial services, including government-operated and private banks and financial institutions, credit card companies, investment banking services, foreign exchange services, money services businesses, payday lenders, mortgage companies, securities exchanges, securities dealers, asset managers, and insurance services, or any entities that are engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent, in or involving the Russian Federation.

§ 589.316   Foreign financial institution.

The term foreign financial institution means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by OFAC.
foreign financial institution
means any foreign entity that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and holding companies, affiliates, or subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. The term does not include the international financial institutions identified in 22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(2), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the North American Development Bank, or any other international financial institution so notified by OFAC.

§ 589.317   Foreign person.

(a) For the purposes of §§ 589.201(a)(6) and 589.413, the term foreign person means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
(b) For the purposes of the rest of this part, the term foreign person means any person that is not a U.S. person.
foreign person
means any person that is not a U.S. person.

§ 589.318   Government of the Russian Federation.

The term Government of the Russian Federation means the Government of the Russian Federation, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of the Russian Federation.
Government of the Russian Federation
means the Government of the Russian Federation, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of the Russian Federation.

§ 589.319   [Reserved]


§ 589.320   Initiated.

The term initiated as used in § 589.205(b) means when a government or any of its political subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities (including any entity owned or controlled directly or indirectly by any of the foregoing) formally grants exploration, development, or production rights to any party.
initiated
as used in § 589.205(b) means when a government or any of its political subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities (including any entity owned or controlled directly or indirectly by any of the foregoing) formally grants exploration, development, or production rights to any party.

§ 589.321   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 589.322   Knowingly.

The term knowingly, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

§ 589.323   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 589.323:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures. See also note 1 to § 589.501.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See also
note 1 to § 589.501.

§ 589.324   Loans or other extensions of credit.

The term loans or other extensions of credit means any transfer or extension of funds or credit on the basis of an obligation to repay, or any assumption or guarantee of the obligation of another to repay an extension of funds or credit, including: Overdrafts; currency swaps; purchases of debt securities issued by persons subject to the prohibitions in this part; purchases of a loan made by another person; sales of financial assets subject to an agreement to repurchase; renewals or refinancings whereby funds or credits are transferred to or extended to a prohibited borrower or prohibited recipient; the issuance of standby letters of credit; and drawdowns on existing lines of credit.
loans or other extensions of credit
means any transfer or extension of funds or credit on the basis of an obligation to repay, or any assumption or guarantee of the obligation of another to repay an extension of funds or credit, including: Overdrafts; currency swaps; purchases of debt securities issued by persons subject to the prohibitions in this part; purchases of a loan made by another person; sales of financial assets subject to an agreement to repurchase; renewals or refinancings whereby funds or credits are transferred to or extended to a prohibited borrower or prohibited recipient; the issuance of standby letters of credit; and drawdowns on existing lines of credit.

§ 589.325   Metals and mining sector of the Russian Federation economy.

The term metals and mining sector of the Russian Federation economy includes any act, process, or industry of extracting, at the surface or underground, ores, coal, precious stones, or any other minerals or geological materials in the Russian Federation, or any act of procuring, processing, manufacturing, or refining such geological materials, or transporting them to, from, or within the Russian Federation.
metals and mining sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes any act, process, or industry of extracting, at the surface or underground, ores, coal, precious stones, or any other minerals or geological materials in the Russian Federation, or any act of procuring, processing, manufacturing, or refining such geological materials, or transporting them to, from, or within the Russian Federation.

§ 589.326   New investment.

The term new investment as used in § 589.206 means a transaction on or after 3:30 p.m. eastern standard time, December 19, 2014 that constitutes:
new investment
as used in § 589.206 means a transaction on or after 3:30 p.m. eastern standard time, December 19, 2014 that constitutes:
(a) A commitment or contribution of funds or other assets; or
(b) A loan or other extension of credit as defined in § 589.324.

§ 589.327   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 589.328   Payable-through account.

The term payable-through account means a correspondent account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
payable-through account
means a correspondent account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution by means of which the foreign financial institution permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.

§ 589.329   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 589.330   Production.

The term production as used in § 589.205 refers to the lifting of oil to the surface and the gathering, treating, field processing, and field storage of such oil. The production stage of a project ends when extracted oil is transported out of a field production storage tank or otherwise off a field production site. The term production as used in § 589.205 does not apply to the provision by U.S. persons or within the United States of goods, technology, or services to persons determined to be subject to § 589.205 when such transactions relate only to the transportation, refining, or other dealings involving oil that has already been extracted from a deepwater project as defined in § 589.308, Arctic offshore project as defined in § 589.301, or shale project as defined in § 589.334, and transported out of a field production storage tank or otherwise off of a field production site.
production
as used in § 589.205 refers to the lifting of oil to the surface and the gathering, treating, field processing, and field storage of such oil. The production stage of a project ends when extracted oil is transported out of a field production storage tank or otherwise off a field production site. The term
production
as used in § 589.205 does not apply to the provision by U.S. persons or within the United States of goods, technology, or services to persons determined to be subject to § 589.205 when such transactions relate only to the transportation, refining, or other dealings involving oil that has already been extracted from a deepwater project as defined in § 589.308, Arctic offshore project as defined in § 589.301, or shale project as defined in § 589.334, and transported out of a field production storage tank or otherwise off of a field production site.

§ 589.331   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 589.332   Railway sector of the Russian Federation economy.

The term railway sector of the Russian Federation economy includes the following activities and items produced in, sold from, purchased in, transiting, or distributed in the Russian Federation: The procurement, design, manufacture, construction, maintenance, repair, refurbishment, assembly, sale, purchase, distribution, and transportation of trains, locomotives, rail cars, and other equipment used to transport passengers and goods via trains; any materials that are used to manufacture trains or other means necessary to move the trains, such as railway lines, equipment, engineering, mechanical, or electrical systems or methods, or technology; and any infrastructure or services used to support railway operations, such as passenger ticketing and on-board food sales or services.
railway sector of the Russian Federation economy
includes the following activities and items produced in, sold from, purchased in, transiting, or distributed in the Russian Federation: The procurement, design, manufacture, construction, maintenance, repair, refurbishment, assembly, sale, purchase, distribution, and transportation of trains, locomotives, rail cars, and other equipment used to transport passengers and goods via trains; any materials that are used to manufacture trains or other means necessary to move the trains, such as railway lines, equipment, engineering, mechanical, or electrical systems or methods, or technology; and any infrastructure or services used to support railway operations, such as passenger ticketing and on-board food sales or services.

§ 589.333   Russian person.

The term Russian person means an individual who is a citizen or national of the Russian Federation, or an entity organized under the laws of the Russian Federation.
Russian person
means an individual who is a citizen or national of the Russian Federation, or an entity organized under the laws of the Russian Federation.

§ 589.334   Shale projects.

The term shale projects as used in § 589.205 includes projects that have the potential to produce oil from resources located in shale formations as well as projects that have the potential to produce oil from resources located in fine-grained sedimentary rock formations including shale, limestone, dolomites, sandstones, and clay.
shale projects
as used in § 589.205 includes projects that have the potential to produce oil from resources located in shale formations as well as projects that have the potential to produce oil from resources located in fine-grained sedimentary rock formations including shale, limestone, dolomites, sandstones, and clay.

§ 589.335   Special Russian crude oil project.

The term special Russian crude oil project means a project intended to extract crude oil from:
special Russian crude oil project
means a project intended to extract crude oil from:
(a) The exclusive economic zone of the Russian Federation in waters more than 500 feet deep;
(b) Russian artic offshore locations; or
(c) Shale formation located in the Russian Federation.

§ 589.336   Structured.

The term structured, with respect to a transaction, has the meaning given the term “structure” in 31 CFR 1010.100(xx) (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury).
structured,
with respect to a transaction, has the meaning given the term “structure” in 31 CFR 1010.100(xx) (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury).

§ 589.337   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 589.338   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 589.339   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 589.340   U.S. depository institution.

The term U.S. depository institution means any entity (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, or any agency, office, or branch located in the United States of a foreign entity, that is engaged primarily in the business of banking (for example, banks, savings banks, savings associations, credit unions, trust companies, and United States bank holding companies) and is subject to regulation by Federal or State banking authorities.
U.S. depository institution
means any entity (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, or any agency, office, or branch located in the United States of a foreign entity, that is engaged primarily in the business of banking (for example, banks, savings banks, savings associations, credit unions, trust companies, and United States bank holding companies) and is subject to regulation by Federal or State banking authorities.

§ 589.341   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 589.342   U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities.

The term U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches), or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that:
U.S.-registered broker or dealer in securities
means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches), or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that:
(a) Is a “broker” or “dealer” in securities within the meanings set forth in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(b) Holds or clears customer accounts; and
(c) Is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

§ 589.343   U.S.-registered money transmitter.

The term U.S.-registered money transmitter means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including its foreign branches, or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that is a money transmitter, as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100 and that is registered pursuant to 31 CFR 1022.380.
U.S.-registered money transmitter
means any U.S. citizen, permanent resident alien, or entity organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including its foreign branches, or any agency, office, or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States, that is a money transmitter, as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100 and that is registered pursuant to 31 CFR 1022.380.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 589.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 589.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 589.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 589.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 589.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 589.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.

§ 589.405   Exportation and reexportation of goods, services, or technology; provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibition on the exportation, reexportation, sale, or supply of goods, services, or technology contained in § 589.207 applies to services performed on behalf of a person in the Crimea region of Ukraine or where the benefit of such services is otherwise received in the Crimea region of Ukraine, if such services are performed:
(1) In the United States; or
(2) Outside the United States by a U.S. person.
(b) The prohibitions contained in § 589.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(c) The prohibitions contained in § 589.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by or at the direction of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(d)(1) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to any person in the Crimea region of Ukraine or any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(2) For example, a U.S. person is engaged in a prohibited exportation of services to the Crimea region of Ukraine when it extends credit to a third-country firm specifically to enable that firm to manufacture goods for sale to the Crimea region of Ukraine.
Note 1 to § 589.405:
See, for example, §§ 589.506 and 589.508 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See, for example,
§§ 589.506 and 589.508 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 589.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 589.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 589.303, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 589.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 589.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 589.407:
See also § 589.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 589.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 589.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 589.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 589.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.

§ 589.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 589.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 589.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked or who are subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205.

(a) Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
(b) Persons subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are also subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, § 589.204, or § 589.205, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List.

§ 589.412   Projects owned, or to which a majority of voting rights are held, by one or more persons subject to § 589.205.

The prohibitions in § 589.205(b) apply to projects owned 33 percent or more, or to projects in which a majority of voting interests are held, individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons subject to § 589.205, their property, or their interests in property, including entities owned 50 percent or more by one or more persons subject to § 589.205.
Example 1 to § 589.412:
If two entities that are each subject to § 589.205 each hold a 20 percent ownership interest in Project X, or together own a majority of the voting interests in Project X, then the prohibition in § 589.205(b) applies to Project X.

§ 589.413   Significant transaction(s); significant financial transaction(s).

In determining, for the purposes of §§ 589.201(a)(6)(vii) and 589.209, whether a transaction or a financial transaction is significant, the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee will consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, some or all of the following factors may be considered:
(a) Size, number, and frequency. The size, number, and frequency of transaction(s) over a period of time, including whether the transaction(s) is increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
Size, number, and frequency.
The size, number, and frequency of transaction(s) over a period of time, including whether the transaction(s) is increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.
(b) Nature. The nature of the transaction(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s).
Nature.
The nature of the transaction(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s).
(c) Level of awareness; pattern of conduct. (1) Whether the transaction(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
Level of awareness; pattern of conduct.
(1) Whether the transaction(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and
(2) Whether the transaction(s) is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.
(d) Nexus. (1) For the purposes of § 589.201(a)(6)(vii), the proximity between the foreign person engaging in the transaction(s) and the person(s) subject to sanctions pursuant to the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8901-8910) (SSIDES), the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA), title II of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.)) (CAATSA), and any covered Executive order, or any child, spouse, parent, or sibling of such an individual.
Nexus.
(1) For the purposes of § 589.201(a)(6)(vii), the proximity between the foreign person engaging in the transaction(s) and the person(s) subject to sanctions pursuant to the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8901-8910) (SSIDES), the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, as amended (22 U.S.C. 8921-8930) (UFSA), title II of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.)) (CAATSA), and any covered Executive order, or any child, spouse, parent, or sibling of such an individual.
(2) For the purposes of § 589.209(b), the proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the transaction(s) and the person with respect to which sanctions are imposed under section 4 of UFSA.
(3) For the purposes of § 589.209(c), the proximity between the foreign financial institution engaging in the financial transaction(s) and the Russian person included on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) as blocked pursuant to UFSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, or any other Executive order addressing the crisis in Ukraine.
(e) Impact. The impact of the transaction(s) on the objectives of UFSA, SSIDES, CAATSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, E.O. 13685, or any other Executive order issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660.
Impact.
The impact of the transaction(s) on the objectives of UFSA, SSIDES, CAATSA, E.O. 13660, E.O. 13661, E.O. 13662, E.O. 13685, or any other Executive order issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660.
(f) Deceptive practices. Whether the transaction(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions.
Deceptive practices.
Whether the transaction(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions.
(g) Other relevant factors. Such other factors that the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s).
Other relevant factors.
Such other factors that the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s).
(h) Persons solely identified on the Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) or Non-SDN Menu-Based Sanctions List (NS-MBS List). For the purposes of § 589.201(a)(6)(vii) and § 589.209(b), a transaction in which the person(s) subject to sanctions is only identified on the SSI List or the NS-MBS List must also involve deceptive practices, for example attempts to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions, to potentially be considered significant.
Persons solely identified on the Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List (SSI List) or Non-SDN Menu-Based Sanctions List (NS-MBS List).
For the purposes of § 589.201(a)(6)(vii) and § 589.209(b), a transaction in which the person(s) subject to sanctions is only identified on the SSI List or the NS-MBS List must also involve deceptive practices, for example attempts to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s), or to evade sanctions, to potentially be considered significant.
(i) Applicability. For the purposes of this part, a transaction is not significant if U.S. persons would not require a specific license from OFAC to participate in it.
Applicability.
For the purposes of this part, a transaction is not significant if U.S. persons would not require a specific license from OFAC to participate in it.

§ 589.414   Facilitation; change of policies and procedures; referral of business opportunities offshore.

With respect to § 589.215, a prohibited facilitation or approval of a transaction by a foreign person occurs, among other instances, when a U.S. person:
(a) Alters its operating policies or procedures, or those of a foreign affiliate, to permit a foreign affiliate to accept or perform a specific contract, engagement, or transaction described in §§ 589.206 through 589.208 without the approval of the U.S. person, where such transaction previously required approval by the U.S. person and such transaction by the foreign affiliate would be prohibited by this part if performed directly by a U.S. person or from the United States;
(b) Refers to a foreign person purchase orders, requests for bids, or similar business opportunities involving a transaction described in §§ 589.206 through 589.208 to which the U.S. person could not directly respond as a result of the prohibitions contained in this part; or
(c) Changes the operating policies and procedures of a particular affiliate with the specific purpose of facilitating transactions that would be prohibited by this part if performed by a U.S. person or from the United States.

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 589.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 589.501:
Section 216 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511) requires Congressional review prior to the issuance of a license that significantly alters the United States' foreign policy with regard to the Russian Federation.

§ 589.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 589.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 589.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 589.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 589.211 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 589.211 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 589.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 589.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or to whom the provision of legal services would be prohibited by § 589.207, is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 589.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. Federal, State, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against the Crimea region of Ukraine; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, or to whom the provision of legal services would be prohibited by § 589.207, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 589.404.
See
§ 589.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 589.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
(e) All receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of a person in the Crimea region of Ukraine, or in circumstances in which the benefit is otherwise received in the Crimea region of Ukraine, other than those persons whose property and interest in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, are authorized, except that nothing in this section authorizes the debiting of any blocked account or the transfer of any blocked property.
Note 1 to § 589.506:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 589.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 589.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 589.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 589.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103648, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 589.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 589.509   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 589.211, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 589.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.

§ 589.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 589.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities, by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.

§ 589.512   Certain transactions related to derivatives prohibited by § 589.202, § 589.203, or § 589.204.

(a) All transactions by U.S. persons, wherever located, and transactions within the United States involving derivative products whose value is linked to an underlying asset that constitutes prohibited debt issued by a person subject to § 589.202, § 589.203, or § 589.204, or prohibited equity issued by a person subject to § 589.202, are authorized.
(b) This section does not authorize the holding, purchasing, or selling of underlying assets otherwise prohibited by § 589.202, § 589.203, or § 589.204 by U.S. persons, wherever are located, or within the United States.

§ 589.513   Exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, and replacement parts to the Crimea region of Ukraine.

(a)(1) Agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical supplies. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical supplies to the Crimea region of Ukraine, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to the Crimea region of Ukraine, and the conduct of related transactions are authorized.
Agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical supplies.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical supplies to the Crimea region of Ukraine, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to the Crimea region of Ukraine, and the conduct of related transactions are authorized.
(2) Replacement parts. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, of replacement parts for medical supplies exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the conduct of related transactions are authorized, provided that such replacement parts are designated as EAR99, or, in the case of replacement parts that are not subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 744 (EAR), are not listed under any multilateral export control regime; and further provided that such replacement parts are limited to a one-for-one export or reexport basis (i.e., only one replacement part can be exported or reexported to replace a broken or non-operational component).
Replacement parts.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, from the United States or by a U.S. person, wherever located, of replacement parts for medical supplies exported or reexported pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the conduct of related transactions are authorized, provided that such replacement parts are designated as EAR99, or, in the case of replacement parts that are not subject to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 744 (EAR), are not listed under any multilateral export control regime; and further provided that such replacement parts are limited to a one-for-one export or reexport basis (
i.e.,
only one replacement part can be exported or reexported to replace a broken or non-operational component).
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
Related transactions in this paragraph include the making of shipping and cargo inspection arrangements, the obtaining of insurance, the arrangement of financing and payment, shipping of the goods, receipt of payment, and the entry into contracts (including executory contracts).
(b)(1) Excluded persons. Paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not authorize the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, or replacement parts to military or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
Excluded persons.
Paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not authorize the exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical supplies, or replacement parts to military or law enforcement purchasers or importers.
(2) Excluded agricultural commodities. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following items: Castor beans, castor bean seeds, certified pathogen-free eggs (unfertilized or fertilized), dried egg albumin, live animals (excluding live cattle), embryos (excluding cattle embryos), Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, peptones and their derivatives, super absorbent polymers, western red cedar, or all fertilizers.
Excluded agricultural commodities.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following items: Castor beans, castor bean seeds, certified pathogen-free eggs (unfertilized or fertilized), dried egg albumin, live animals (excluding live cattle), embryos (excluding cattle embryos), Rosary/Jequirity peas, non-food-grade gelatin powder, peptones and their derivatives, super absorbent polymers, western red cedar, or all fertilizers.
(3) Excluded medicines. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following medicines: Non-NSAID analgesics, cholinergics, anticholinergics, opioids, narcotics, benzodiazapenes, and bioactive peptides.
Excluded medicines.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not authorize the exportation or reexportation of the following medicines: Non-NSAID analgesics, cholinergics, anticholinergics, opioids, narcotics, benzodiazapenes, and bioactive peptides.
(c)(1) Other excluded items agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities do not include furniture made from wood; clothing manufactured from plant or animal materials; agricultural equipment (whether hand tools or motorized equipment); pesticides, insecticides, or herbicides; or cosmetics (unless derived entirely from plant materials).
Other excluded items agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities do not include furniture made from wood; clothing manufactured from plant or animal materials; agricultural equipment (whether hand tools or motorized equipment); pesticides, insecticides, or herbicides; or cosmetics (unless derived entirely from plant materials).
(2) Other excluded medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine does not include cosmetics.
Other excluded medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine does not include cosmetics.
(d) Nothing in this section relieves the exporter from compliance with the export license application requirements of another Federal agency.
(e) Nothing in this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device controlled on the United States Munitions List established under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778); controlled on any control list established under the Export Administration Act of 1979 or any successor statute (50 U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.); or used to facilitate the development or production of a chemical or biological weapon or weapon of mass destruction.
et seq.
); or used to facilitate the development or production of a chemical or biological weapon or weapon of mass destruction.
(f) Nothing in this section affects prohibitions on the sale or supply of U.S. technology or software used to manufacture agricultural commodities, medicine, or medical devices, such as technology to design or produce biotechnological items or medical devices.
(g) Nothing in this section affects U.S. nonproliferation export controls, including the end-user and end-use controls maintained under Part 744 of the EAR, 15 CFR part 744.
(h) Nothing in this section authorizes any transaction or dealing with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to 31 CFR 536.201, 544.201, 594.201, 597.201, or 598.202, or with any foreign organization, group, or person subject to any restriction for its involvement in weapons of mass destruction or missile proliferation, or involving property blocked pursuant to this chapter or any other activity prohibited by this chapter not otherwise authorized in or pursuant to this part.
(i) Nothing in this section authorizes the exportation or reexportation of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device that is not designated as EAR99 or, in the case of any agricultural commodity, medicine, or medical device not subject to the EAR, is not listed under any multilateral export control regime.
(j) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, and medical supplies are defined below.
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section,
agricultural commodities
are:
(i) In the case of products subject to the EAR, products that are designated as EAR99, and, in the case of products not subject to the EAR, products that are not listed under any multilateral export control regime, in each case that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) In the case of products subject to the EAR, products that are designated as EAR99, and in the case of products not subject to the EAR, products that are not listed under any multilateral export control regime, in each case that are intended for ultimate use in the Crimea region of Ukraine as: Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods, live animals, vitamins and minerals, food additives or supplements, and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds); seeds for food crops; fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals;
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99 or, in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, is not listed under any multilateral export control regime.
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section,
medicine
is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99 or, in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, is not listed under any multilateral export control regime.
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99, or in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, is not listed under any multilateral export control regime.
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a
medical device
is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321) and that, in the case of an item subject to the EAR, is designated as EAR99, or in the case of an item not subject to the EAR, is not listed under any multilateral export control regime.
(4) Medical supplies. For purposes of this section, the term medical supplies means those medical devices, as defined in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, that are included on the List of Medical Supplies on OFAC's website (www.treas.gov/ofac) on the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page.
Medical supplies.
For purposes of this section, the term
medical supplies
means those medical devices, as defined in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, that are included on the List of Medical Supplies on OFAC's website (
www.treas.gov/ofac
) on the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page.
Note 1 to paragraph (
j
)(4):
The List of Medical Supplies is maintained on OFAC's website (www.treas.gov/ofac) on the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page. The list will be published in the Federal Register, as will any changes to the list.
www.treas.gov/ofac
) on the Ukraine-/Russia-Related Sanctions page. The list will be published in the
Federal Register,
as will any changes to the list.
(k) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize the export or reexport of medical devices that are not medical supplies (and therefore not authorized pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section) to the Crimea region of Ukraine, or to persons in third countries purchasing specifically for resale to the Crimea region of Ukraine.

§ 589.514   Noncommercial, personal remittances to or from the Crimea region of Ukraine or for or on behalf of individuals ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine.

(a)(1) U.S. persons are authorized to send and receive, and U.S. depository institutions, U.S.-registered brokers or dealers in securities, and U.S.-registered money transmitters are authorized to process transfers of, funds to or from the Crimea region of Ukraine or for or on behalf of an individual ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine in cases in which the transfer involves a noncommercial, personal remittance, provided the transfer is not by, to, or through any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(2) Noncommercial, personal remittances do not include charitable donations of funds to or for the benefit of an entity or funds transfers for use in supporting or operating a business, including a family-owned business.
(b) The transferring institutions identified in paragraph (a) of this section may rely on the originator of a funds transfer with regard to compliance with paragraph (a), provided that the transferring institution does not know or have reason to know that the funds transfer is not in compliance with paragraph (a).
(c) An individual who is a U.S. person is authorized to carry funds as a noncommercial, personal remittance, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, to an individual in the Crimea region of Ukraine or to an individual ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant § 589.201, provided that the individual who is a U.S. person is carrying the funds on his or her behalf, but not on behalf of another person.

§ 589.515   Operation of accounts for individuals ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine.

The operation of an account in a U.S. financial institution for an individual ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine, other than an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked § 589.201, is authorized, provided that transactions processed through the account:
(a) Are of a personal nature and not for use in supporting or operating a business;
(b) Do not involve transfers, directly or indirectly, to the Crimea region of Ukraine or for the benefit of individuals ordinarily resident in the Crimea region of Ukraine unless authorized by § 589.514; and

§ 589.516   Transactions related to telecommunications and mail involving the Crimea region of Ukraine.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, all transactions with respect to the receipt and transmission of telecommunications involving the Crimea region of Ukraine are authorized, provided that no payment pursuant to this section may involve any transaction with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(2) This section does not authorize:
(i) The provision, sale, or lease of telecommunications equipment or technology; or
(ii) The provision, sale, or lease of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network activity).
(b) All transactions of common carriers incident to the receipt or transmission of mail and packages between the United States and the Crimea region of Ukraine are authorized, provided that the importation or exportation of such mail and packages is exempt from or authorized pursuant to this part.

§ 589.517   Exportation of certain services and software incident to internet-based communications to the Crimea Region of Ukraine.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, to persons in the Crimea region of Ukraine of services incident to the exchange of personal communications over the internet, such as instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, web browsing, and blogging, is authorized, provided that such services are widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, to persons in the Crimea region of Ukraine of software necessary to enable the services described in paragraph (a) of this section is authorized, provided that such software is designated EAR99 under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), or is classified by the Department of Commerce as mass market software under export control classification number (ECCN) 5D992 of the EAR, and provided further that such software is widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, from the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, to persons in the Crimea region of Ukraine of software that is not subject to the EAR because it is of foreign origin and is located outside the United States that is necessary to enable the services described in paragraph (a) of this section is authorized, provided that such software is not listed under any multilateral export control regime, or would meet the criteria for classification under ECCN 5D992 of the EAR if it were subject to the EAR, and provided further that such software is widely available to the public at no cost to the user.
(d) This section does not authorize:
(1) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of services or software with knowledge or reason to know that such services or software are intended for any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201.
(2) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of any goods or technology listed on the Commerce Control List in the EAR, 15 CFR part 774, supplement No. 1 (CCL), except for software necessary to enable the services described in paragraph (a) of this section that is classified by the Department of Commerce as mass market software under ECCN 5D992 of the EAR;
(3) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of commercial-grade internet connectivity services or telecommunications transmission facilities (such as dedicated satellite links or dedicated lines that include quality of service guarantees); or
(4) The exportation or reexportation, directly or indirectly, of web-hosting services that are for commercial endeavors or of domain name registration services.
(e) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis for the exportation or reexportation of services or software incident to the exchange of personal communications over the internet not specified in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, and for the exportation or reexportation of hardware incident to the exchange of personal communications over the internet.

§ 589.518   Transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to publishing in the Crimea region of Ukraine.

(a) To the extent that such activities are not exempt from this part, and subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of manuscripts, books, journals, and newspapers in paper or electronic format (collectively, “written publications”) involving the Crimea region of Ukraine. This paragraph does not apply if the parties to the transactions described in this paragraph include any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 589.201. Pursuant to this section, the following activities are authorized, provided that U.S. persons ensure that they are not engaging, without separate authorization, in the activities identified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section:
(1) Commissioning and making advance payments for identifiable written publications not yet in existence, to the extent consistent with industry practice;
(2) Collaborating on the creation and enhancement of written publications;
(3)(i) Augmenting written publications through the addition of items such as photographs, artwork, translation, explanatory text, and, for a written publication in electronic format, the addition of embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching the written publication;
(ii) Exporting embedded software necessary for reading, browsing, navigating, or searching a written publication in electronic format, provided that, to the extent authorization is required under the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (EAR), the exportation is licensed or otherwise authorized by the Department of Commerce under the provisions of the EAR;
(4) Substantive editing of written publications;
(5) Payment of royalties for written publications;
(6) Creating or undertaking a marketing campaign to promote a written publication; and
(7) Other transactions necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in this paragraph (a).
(b) This section does not authorize transactions involving the provision of goods or services not necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications as described in paragraph (a) of this section. For example, this section does not authorize persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States:
(1) To provide or receive individualized or customized services (including, but not limited to, accounting, legal, design, or consulting services), other than those necessary and ordinarily incident to the publishing and marketing of written publications, even though such individualized or customized services are delivered through the use of information and informational materials;
(2) To create or undertake for any person a marketing campaign with respect to any service or product other than a written publication, or to create or undertake a marketing campaign of any kind;
(3) To engage in the exportation or importation of goods to or from the Crimea region of Ukraine other than the exportation of embedded software described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section; or
(4) To operate a publishing house, sales outlet, or other office in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(c) This section does not authorize U.S. persons to engage the services of publishing houses or translators in the Crimea region of Ukraine unless such activity is primarily for the dissemination of written publications in the Crimea region of Ukraine.
(d) This section does not authorize:
(1) The exportation from or the importation into the United States of services for the development, production, or design of software;
(2) Transactions for the development, production, design, or marketing of technology specifically controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 (ITAR), the EAR, or the Department of Energy Regulations set forth at 10 CFR part 810.
(3) The exportation of information or technology subject to the authorization requirements of 10 CFR part 810, or Restricted Data as defined in section 11 y. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or of other information, data, or technology the release of which is controlled under the Atomic Energy Act and regulations therein;
(4) The exportation of any item (including information) subject to the EAR where a U.S. person knows or has reason to know that the item will be used, directly or indirectly, with respect to certain nuclear, missile, chemical, or biological weapons or nuclear-maritime end-uses as set forth in part 744 of the EAR. In addition, U.S. persons are precluded from exporting any item subject to the EAR to certain restricted end-users, as set forth in part 744 of the EAR, as well as certain persons whose export privileges have been denied pursuant to parts 764 or 766 of the EAR, without authorization from the Department of Commerce; or
(5) The exportation of information subject to licensing requirements under the ITAR, or exchanges of information that are subject to regulation by other government agencies.

§ 589.519   Emergency landings and air ambulance services in the Crimea region of Ukraine.

(a) The receipt of, and payment of charges for, services rendered in connection with emergency landings in the Crimea region of Ukraine by aircraft registered in the United States or owned or controlled by, or chartered to, persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction that would be prohibited by § 589.206, § 589.207, or § 589.208 are authorized.
(b) U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions prohibited by § 589.206, § 589.207, or § 589.208 that are necessary to provide air ambulance and related medical services, including medical evacuation from the Crimea region of Ukraine, for individuals in the Crimea region of Ukraine.

§ 589.520   Certain transactions in support of nongovernmental organizations' activities in the Crimea region of Ukraine.

Nongovernmental organizations are authorized to export or reexport services to the Crimea region of Ukraine that would be prohibited by § 589.207 in support of the following not-for-profit activities:
(a) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs in the Crimea region of Ukraine, including drought and flood relief; food, nutrition, and medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable populations, including individuals with disabilities; and environmental programs;
(b) Activities to support democracy building in the Crimea region of Ukraine, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability, universal human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(c) Activities to support education in the Crimea region of Ukraine, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(d) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting the Crimean people, including preventing infectious disease and promoting maternal/child health, and clean water assistance; and
(e) Activities to support environmental protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage.
[[87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 67557, Aug. 21, 2024]]

§ 589.521   Transactions related to closing a correspondent or payable-through account.

(a) During the 10-day period beginning on the effective date of the prohibition in § 589.209 on the opening and the prohibition or imposition of one or more strict conditions on the maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution listed on the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:
(1) Process only those transactions through the account, or permit the foreign financial institution to execute only those transactions through the account, that are for the purpose of, and necessary for, closing the account; and
(2) Transfer the funds remaining in the correspondent account or the payable-through account to an account of the foreign financial institution located outside of the United States and close the correspondent account or the payable-through account.
(b) A report must be filed with OFAC within 30 days of the closure of an account, providing full details on the closing of each correspondent account or payable-through account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List. Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. The reports, which must reference this section, are to be submitted to OFAC using one of the following methods:
(1) Email (preferred method): OFACReport@treasury.gov; or
Email (preferred method): OFACReport@treasury.gov
; or
(2) U.S. mail: Attention:  Enforcement Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220.
U.S. mail:
Attention:  Enforcement Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Freedman's Bank Building, Washington, DC 20220.
(c) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions outside the scope or time period authorized in paragraph (a) of this section by a U.S. financial institution with respect to a correspondent account or a payable-through account maintained by the U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List. License applications should be filed in conformance with § 501.801 of the Reporting, Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List.
Note 1 to § 589.521:
This section does not authorize a U.S. financial institution to unblock property or interests in property, or to engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property, blocked pursuant to any other part of this chapter in the process of closing a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name has been added to the CAPTA List. See § 589.101.
See
§ 589.101.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 589.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 589.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[87 FR 26099, May 2, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 589.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's  Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's  Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 589.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.

§ 589.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

§ 589.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a Federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in Federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 589.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 589.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13660 of March 6, 2014, E.O. 13661 of March 16, 2014, E.O. 13662 of March 20, 2014, E.O. 13685 of December 19, 2014, E.O. 13849 of September 20, 2018, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13660, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Presidential Memorandum of September 29, 2017: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017, the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014, and the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 589.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 590—TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13581, 76 FR 44757, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 260; E.O. 13863, 84 FR 10255, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 267.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13581, 76 FR 44757, 3 CFR, 2011 Comp., p. 260; E.O. 13863, 84 FR 10255, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 267.
[Source:87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 590.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 590.201   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(1) The persons listed in the Annex to E.O. 13581 of July 24, 2011;
(2) Any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of State:
(i) To be a foreign person that constitutes a significant transnational criminal organization;
(ii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(iii) To be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
(e) All transactions prohibited pursuant to any Executive order issued after March 15, 2019 pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581 of July 24, 2011, are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 590.201.
The names of persons listed in, or designated or identified pursuant to, E.O. 13581; E.O. 13581, as amended by E.O. 13863 of March 15, 2019 (“amended E.O. 13581”); or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13581 or amended E.O. 13581: “[TCO]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581: Using the identifier formulation “[TCO-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 590.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13581 or amended E.O. 13581: “[TCO]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581: Using the identifier formulation “[TCO-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 590.411 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 590.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13581 or amended E.O. 13581: “[BPI-TCO]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-TCO-[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifiers: For E.O. 13581 or amended E.O. 13581: “[BPI-TCO]”; and for any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581: Using the identifier formulation “[BPI-TCO-[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 590.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 590.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
[[87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75967, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 590.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 590.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 590.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 590.201.

§ 590.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 590.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 590.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 590.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 590.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 590.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 590.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 590.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 590.205   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

§ 590.206   Exempt transactions.

The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 590.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 590.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 590.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 590.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 590.301.
See § 590.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
See
§ 590.411 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.

§ 590.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201(a)(1), 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time July 25, 2011; and
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 590.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 590.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 590.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 590.305   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any citizen or national of a foreign state, or any entity organized under the laws of a foreign state or existing in a foreign state, including any such individual or entity who is also a United States person.
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state, or any entity organized under the laws of a foreign state or existing in a foreign state, including any such individual or entity who is also a United States person.

§ 590.306   [Reserved]


§ 590.307   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 590.308   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 590.306.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 590.309   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 590.310   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 590.311   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 590.312   Significant transnational criminal organization.

The term significant transnational criminal organization means a group of persons that includes one or more foreign persons; that engages in or facilitates an ongoing pattern of serious criminal activity involving the jurisdictions of at least two foreign states, or one foreign state and the United States; and that threatens the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States.
significant transnational criminal organization
means a group of persons that includes one or more foreign persons; that engages in or facilitates an ongoing pattern of serious criminal activity involving the jurisdictions of at least two foreign states, or one foreign state and the United States; and that threatens the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States.

§ 590.313   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 590.314   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 590.315   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 590.316   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or other extensions of credit, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 590.401   Reference to amended sections.

(a) Reference to any section in this part is a reference to the same as currently amended, unless the reference includes a specific date. See 44 U.S.C. 1510.
See
44 U.S.C. 1510.
(b) Reference to any ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part is a reference to the same as currently amended unless otherwise so specified.

§ 590.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 590.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 590.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 590.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 590.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

(a) Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(1) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201; or
(2) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.
(b) For example, a license authorizing a person to complete a securities sale involving Company A, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, also authorizes other persons to engage in activities that are ordinarily incident and necessary to complete the sale, including transactions by the buyer, broker, transfer agents, and banks, provided that such other persons are not themselves persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.

§ 590.405   Provision and receipt of services.

(a) The prohibitions contained in § 590.201 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201; or
(2) With respect to property interests of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
(b) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 590.201 apply to services received in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, where the service is performed by or at the direction of, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
(c) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, or negotiate with or enter into contracts signed by a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
Note 1 to § 590.405.
See §§ 590.507 and 590.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 590.507 and 590.509 for general licenses authorizing the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.

§ 590.406   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 590.201 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 590.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.

§ 590.407   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to § 590.201, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 590.407.
See also § 590.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
See also
§ 590.502(e), which provides that no license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.

§ 590.408   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201 if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.

§ 590.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked.

The prohibition in § 590.201 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.

§ 590.410   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 590.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 590.411   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 590.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Transnational Criminal Organizations sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.

§ 590.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 590.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 590.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 590.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 590.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 590.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 590.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 590.506   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 590.203, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets blocked pursuant to § 590.201, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but funds shall not be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments shall not be credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.
e.g.,
through pledging or other use) to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201.

§ 590.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 590.508, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by paragraph (a) of this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 590.404.
See
§ 590.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 590.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 590.507.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 590.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 590.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 590.507(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 590.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 590.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103648, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 590.509   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 590.510   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 590.511   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(b) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(c) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(d) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.

§ 590.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 590.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78503, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 590.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 590.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78504, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 590.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 590.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) (IEEPA) is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 206 of IEEPA may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA.
(2) IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b)(1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[87 FR 3209, Jan. 21, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 590.702   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed or date the Pre-Penalty Notice was emailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 590.703   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.

§ 590.704   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

§ 590.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; Default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; Default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (c)(2).
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[87 FR 58996, Sept. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 590.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 590.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 13581 of July 24, 2011, as amended by E.O. 13863 of March 15, 2019, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13581, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 590.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 591—VENEZUELA SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 113-278, 128 Stat. 3011 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13692, 80 FR 12747, 3 CFR, 2015 Comp., p. 276; E.O. 13808, 82 FR 41155, 3 CFR, 2017 Comp., p. 377; E.O. 13827, 83 FR 12469, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 794; E.O. 13835, 83 FR 24001, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 817; E.O. 13850, 83 FR 55243, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 881; E.O. 13857, 84 FR 509, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p 251; E.O. 13884, 84 FR 38843, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 351.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 113-278, 128 Stat. 3011 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13692, 80 FR 12747, 3 CFR, 2015 Comp., p. 276; E.O. 13808, 82 FR 41155, 3 CFR, 2017 Comp., p. 377; E.O. 13827, 83 FR 12469, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 794; E.O. 13835, 83 FR 24001, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 817; E.O. 13850, 83 FR 55243, 3 CFR, 2018 Comp., p. 881; E.O. 13857, 84 FR 509, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p 251; E.O. 13884, 84 FR 38843, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 351.
[Source:80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 591.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note to § 591.101:
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive and definitional guidance and additional general licenses and statements of licensing policy.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 591.201   Prohibited transactions.

All transactions prohibited pursuant to Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13692, are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 591.201:
The names of persons designated pursuant to Executive Order 13692, or pursuant to any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13692, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this section, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the identifier formulation “[VENEZEULA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 591.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the identifier formulation “[VENEZEULA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 591.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 591.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the identifier formulation “[BPI-VENEZEULA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the identifier formulation “[BPI-VENEZEULA-E.O. [E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 591.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 591.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[[84 FR 64416, Nov. 22, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 75967, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 591.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interest.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
) of § 591.202:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property and interests in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201.

§ 591.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 591.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing
account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 591.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 591.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 591.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 591.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 591.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 591.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 591.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 591.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 591.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 591.301:
See § 591.406 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201.
[[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 591.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a) With respect to a person listed in the Annex to E.O. 13692 of March 8, 2015, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, March 9, 2015; and
(b) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are otherwise blocked pursuant to § 591.201, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked.

§ 591.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 591.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including but not limited to currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material,
or technological
support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including but not limited to currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
[[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]]

§ 591.305   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 591.306   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac
.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note to § 591.306:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 591.307   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 591.308   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 591.309   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 591.310   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, or filing of, or levy of or under, any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, or filing of, or levy of or under, any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 591.311   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 591.312   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 591.313   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, or commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, or commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 591.401   [Reserved]


§ 591.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 591.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 591.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or other authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such a person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 591.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 591.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 591.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 591.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

(a) Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
(b) This section, which deals with the consequences of ownership of entities, in no way limits the definition of the Government of Venezuela in E.O. 13884, which includes within its definition other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked but who are not on the SDN List.
[[87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 591.407   Settlement agreements and enforcement of certain orders through judicial process.

Notwithstanding the existence of any general license issued under this part, or issued under any Executive order issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 13692, the entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, as referenced in § 591.506(c), is prohibited unless authorized pursuant to a specific license issued by OFAC pursuant to this part.
[[84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 591.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Venezuela sanctions page on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
www.treasury.gov/ofac.

§ 591.502   [Reserved]


§ 591.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 591.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 591.504:
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 591.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 591.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 591.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, Internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 591.506   Provision of certain legal services authorized.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is authorized, provided that receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to § 591.507:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note to § 591.506:
U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of a limited amount of blocked funds for the payment of legal fees where alternative funding sources are not available. For more information, see OFAC's Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings, which is available on OFAC's Web site: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Guidance on the Release of Limited Amounts of Blocked Funds for Payment of Legal Fees and Costs Incurred in Challenging the Blocking of U.S. Persons in Administrative or Civil Proceedings,
which is available on OFAC's Web site:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
[[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]]

§ 591.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 591.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 591.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 591.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019, 89 FR 103649, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 591.508   Authorization of emergency medical services.

The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 591.201, is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.
[[80 FR 39677, July 10, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]]

§ 591.509   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
Note 1 to § 591.509:
For additional information regarding requirements relating to the entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 591.201, see § 591.407.
see
§ 591.407.
[[84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]]

§ 591.510   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

All transactions prohibited by Executive Order (E.O.) 13850, as amended by E.O. 13857 of January 25, 2019, involving Banco Central de Venezuela, or E.O. 13884 involving the Government of Venezuela, that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(a) Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF)
(b) Fondo Latinoamericano de Reservas
(c) Inter-American Development Bank
(d) International Committee of the Red Cross
(e) International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
(f) Organization of American States, and its specialized organizations, other autonomous and decentralized organs, agencies, entities, and dependencies
(g) The World Bank Group (also referred to as the World Bank), including the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), International Development Association (IDA), International Finance Corporation (IFC), Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
(h) United Nations, including its Programmes and Funds, and its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations, including those entities specifically listed separately below:
(1) IMF (International Monetary Fund)
(2) FAO (UN Food and Agriculture Organization)
(3) IOM (International Organization for Migration)
(4) OCHA (UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs)
(5) OHCHR (UN Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights)
(6) UN Habitat
(7) UNDP (UN Development Program)
(8) UNFPA (UN Population Fund)
(9) UNHCR (Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees)
(10) UNICEF (UN Children's Fund)
(11) WFP (World Food Program)
(12) The World Health Organization (WHO), including the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO)
[[87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subparts F-G [Reserved]


Subpart H—Procedures


§ 591.801   [Reserved]


§ 591.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015, Executive Order 13808 of August 24, 2017, Executive Order 13827 of March 19, 2018, Executive Order 13835 of May 21, 2018, Executive Order 13850 of November 1, 2018, Executive Order 13857 of January 25, 2019, Executive Order 13884 of August 5, 2019, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[84 FR 64417, Nov. 22, 2019]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 591.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 591—Executive Order 13692

Executive Order 13692 of March 8, 2015
Blocking Property and Suspending Entry of Certain Persons Contributing to the Situation in Venezuela
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-278) (the “Venezuela Defense of Human Rights Act”) (the “Act”), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)) (INA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-278) (the “Venezuela Defense of Human Rights Act”) (the “Act”), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)) (INA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, find that the situation in Venezuela, including the Government of Venezuela's erosion of human rights guarantees, persecution of political opponents, curtailment of press freedoms, use of violence and human rights violations and abuses in response to antigovernment protests, and arbitrary arrest and detention of antigovernment protestors, as well as the exacerbating presence of significant public corruption, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, and I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat. I hereby order:
Section 1. (a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(i) the persons listed in the Annex to this order; and
(ii) any person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(A) to be responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, or to have participated in, directly or indirectly, any of the following in or in relation to Venezuela:
(1) actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or institutions;
(2) significant acts of violence or conduct that constitutes a serious abuse or violation of human rights, including against persons involved in antigovernment protests in Venezuela in or since February 2014;
(3) actions that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedom of expression or peaceful assembly; or
(4) public corruption by senior officials within the Government of Venezuela;
(B) to be a current or former leader of an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section or of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
(C) to be a current or former official of the Government of Venezuela;
(D) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of:
(1) a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; or
(2) an activity described in subsection (a)(ii)(A) of this section; or
(E) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order.
(b) The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of this order.
Sec. 2. I hereby find that the unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection 1(a) of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and I hereby suspend entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of such persons, except where the Secretary of State determines that the person's entry is in the national interest of the United States. This section shall not apply to an alien if admitting the alien into the United States is necessary to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement Regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, or other applicable international obligations.
Sec. 3. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the type of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 4. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include but are not limited to:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 5. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6. For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(b) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(c) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States;
(d) the term “Government of Venezuela” means the Government of Venezuela, any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the Central Bank of Venezuela, and any person owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Government of Venezuela.
Sec. 7. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to section 1 of this order.
Sec. 8. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA and section 5 of the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights Act, other than the authorities contained in sections 5(b)(1)(B) and 5(c) of that Act, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order, with the exception of section 2 of this order, and the relevant provisions of section 5 of that Act. The Secretary of the Treasury may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law. All agencies of the United States Government are hereby directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of this order.
Sec. 9. The Secretary of State is hereby authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA, the INA, and section 5 of the Venezuela Defense of Human Rights Act, including the authorities set forth in sections 5(b)(1)(B), 5(c), and 5(d) of that Act, as may be necessary to carry out section 2 of this order and the relevant provisions of section 5 of that Act. The Secretary of State may redelegate any of these functions to other officers and agencies of the United States Government consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to determine that circumstances no longer warrant the blocking of the property and interests in property of a person listed in the Annex to this order, and to take necessary action to give effect to that determination.
Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit the recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12. This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
Sec. 13. This order is effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 9, 2015.
Barack Obama
THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 8, 2015
Annex
1. Antonio José Benavides Torres [Commander of the Central Integral Strategic Defense Region of the National Armed Forces, former Director of Operations for the National Guard; born June 13, 1961]
2. Gustavo Enrique González López [Director General of the National Intelligence Service and President of the Strategic Center of Security and Protection of the Homeland; born November 2, 1960]
3. Justo José Noguera Pietri [President of the Venezuelan Corporation of Guayana, former General Commander of the National Guard; born March 15, 1961]
4. Katherine Nayarith Haringhton Padron [National Level Prosecutor of the 20th District Office of the Public Ministry; born December 5, 1971]
5. Manuel Eduardo Pérez Urdaneta [Director of the National Police; born May 26, 1962]
6. Manuel Gregorio Bernal Martínez [Chief of the 31st Armored Brigade of Caracas, former Director General of the National Intelligence Service; born July 12, 1965]
7. Miguel Alcides Vivas Landino [Inspector General of the National Armed Forces, former Commander of the Andes Integral Strategic Defense Region of the National Armed Forces; born July 8, 1961]

PART 592—ROUGH DIAMONDS CONTROL REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 3901-3913; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13312, 68 FR 45151, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 246.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 3901-3913; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 13312, 68 FR 45151, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 246.
[Source:69 FR 56938, Sept. 23, 2004, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
69 FR 56938, Sept. 23, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 592.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 592.201   Prohibited importation and exportation of any rough diamond; permitted importation or exportation of any rough diamond.

(a) Except to the extent provided in paragraph (b) of this section, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, the importation into, or exportation from, the United States on or after July 30, 2003, of any rough diamond, from whatever source, is prohibited, unless the rough diamond has been controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section regarding the importation into, or exportation from, the United States of any rough diamond not controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme do not apply to an importation from, or exportation to, any country with respect to which the Secretary of State has granted a waiver pursuant to section 4(b) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19) and section 2(a)(i) of Executive Order 13312.
Note to § 592.201.
An importation of any rough diamond from, or an exportation of any rough diamond to, a non-Participant is not controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and thus is not permitted, except in the following circumstance. The Secretary of State may, pursuant to section 4(b) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act, waive the prohibitions contained in section 4(a) of that Act with respect to a particular country for periods of not more than one year each. The Secretary of State will publish a notice in the Federal Register identifying any country with respect to which a waiver applies and specifying the relevant time period during which the waiver will apply.
Federal Register
identifying any country with respect to which a waiver applies and specifying the relevant time period during which the waiver will apply.

§ 592.202   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

(a) Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to July 30, 2003, any transaction by a United States person anywhere, or any transaction that occurs in whole or in part within the United States, on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, or has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to July 30, 2003, any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions of this part is prohibited.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 592.301   Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the term controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme refers to the following requirements that apply, as appropriate, to the importation into the United States from a Participant, or to the exportation from the United States to a Participant, of any shipment including any rough diamond:
controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme
refers to the following requirements that apply, as appropriate, to the importation into the United States from a Participant, or to the exportation from the United States to a Participant, of any shipment including any rough diamond:
(1) Kimberley Process Certificate. A shipment of rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States must be accompanied by an original Kimberley Process Certificate. The certificate must be provided as follows:
Kimberley Process Certificate.
A shipment of rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States must be accompanied by an original Kimberley Process Certificate. The certificate must be provided as follows:
(i) The original certificate must be presented immediately upon demand to U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation or exportation of rough diamonds;
(ii) The person identified as the ultimate consignee (see Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must retain the original Kimberley Process Certificate for a period of at least five years from the date of importation (see also 19 CFR 12.152);
see
Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must retain the original Kimberley Process Certificate for a period of at least five years from the date of importation (see also 19 CFR 12.152);
(iii) The person identified as the ultimate consignee (see Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must provide the certificate to the U.S. Bureau of the Census immediately after entry of the shipment in the United States. The certificate must be provided by faxing it to (800) 457-7328 or by other methods as permitted by the U.S. Bureau of the Census;
see
Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must provide the certificate to the U.S. Bureau of the Census immediately after entry of the shipment in the United States. The certificate must be provided by faxing it to (800) 457-7328 or by other methods as permitted by the U.S. Bureau of the Census;
(iv) The U.S. Principal Party in Interest or U.S. authorized agent (see 15 CFR 30.1) must also provide the certificate to the U.S. Bureau of the Census immediately after export of the shipment of rough diamonds from the United States by faxing it to (800) 457-7328 or by other methods as permitted by the U.S. Bureau of the Census; and
(v) Any voided certificate(s) must be provided to the U.S. Bureau of the Census immediately upon voiding by faxing it to (800) 457-7328 or by other methods as permitted by the U.S. Bureau of the Census (see § 592.313);
see
§ 592.313);
(2) Tamper-resistance requirement. A shipment of rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States must be sealed in a tamper-resistant container;
Tamper-resistance requirement.
A shipment of rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States must be sealed in a tamper-resistant container;
(3) Notification requirements for importations into the United States. The person identified as the ultimate consignee (see Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must report that person's receipt of a shipment of rough diamonds to the relevant foreign exporting authority within 15 calendar days of the date that the shipment arrived at the U.S. port of entry. The report must refer to the relevant Kimberley Process Certificate by its unique identifying number; specify the number of parcels in the shipment; specify the total carat weight of the shipment; and identify the importer and exporter of the shipment. The report need not be in any particular form and may be submitted electronically or by mail or courier; and
Notification requirements for importations into the United States.
The person identified as the ultimate consignee (see Customs Directive 3550-079A) on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary or its electronic equivalent filed with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must report that person's receipt of a shipment of rough diamonds to the relevant foreign exporting authority within 15 calendar days of the date that the shipment arrived at the U.S. port of entry. The report must refer to the relevant Kimberley Process Certificate by its unique identifying number; specify the number of parcels in the shipment; specify the total carat weight of the shipment; and identify the importer and exporter of the shipment. The report need not be in any particular form and may be submitted electronically or by mail or courier; and
(4) Issuance of Kimberley Process Certificate for exportations from the United States. Consistent with section 5(c) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (CDTA), the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying a shipment of rough diamonds exported from the United States must be issued by, or on behalf of, an entity whose standards, practices, and procedures are annually reviewed by the appropriate U.S. Government agency, and that has reached an arrangement with such agency concerning the issuance of Kimberley Process Certificates consistent with the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and the CDTA.
Issuance of Kimberley Process Certificate for exportations from the United States.
Consistent with section 5(c) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (CDTA), the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying a shipment of rough diamonds exported from the United States must be issued by, or on behalf of, an entity whose standards, practices, and procedures are annually reviewed by the appropriate U.S. Government agency, and that has reached an arrangement with such agency concerning the issuance of Kimberley Process Certificates consistent with the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and the CDTA.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(4):
As reflected in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) among the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Bureau of the Census, and the U.S. Kimberley Process Authority (USKPA), a non-profit association, Kimberley Process Certificates for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States may only be issued at this time by the USKPA or by entities licensed to do so by the USKPA. Pursuant to this MOU, the U.S. Department of State annually reviews the USKPA's standards, practices, and procedures. The Secretary of State may reassign this review function to any other officers, officials, departments, and agencies within the executive branch, consistent with applicable law.
(5) Validation of Kimberley Process Certificate for exportations from the United States. With respect to the validation of a Kimberley Process Certificate for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States, exporters must:
Validation of Kimberley Process Certificate for exportations from the United States.
With respect to the validation of a Kimberley Process Certificate for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States, exporters must:
(i) Report shipments to the U.S. Bureau of the Census through the Automated Export System (AES) or a successor system and obtain an Internal Transaction Number (ITN) prior to exportation. The ITN is the number generated by the AES and assigned to a shipment confirming that an Electronic Export Information (EEI) was accepted and is on file in the AES.
(ii) Report the ITN on the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying any exportation from the United States, which completes the validation process for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States to a Participant.
(b) The Secretary of State, consistent with section 3(2)(B) of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19), may modify the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section upon making a determination that a Participant has established an alternative system of control for rough diamonds that meets substantially the standards, practices, and procedures of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
Note 1 to § 592.301.
The Secretary of State will periodically publish in the Federal Register an up-to-date listing of all Participants and their importing and exporting authorities. Where appropriate, such listing also will describe any modification of the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
Federal Register
an up-to-date listing of all Participants and their importing and exporting authorities. Where appropriate, such listing also will describe any modification of the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 2 to § 592.301.
Pursuant to 31 CFR §§ 501.601 and 501.602, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by § 592.501 apply to all U.S. persons engaged in the importation into, or exportation from, the United States of any shipment of rough diamonds.
Note 3 to § 592.301.
Effective November 1, 2004, customs brokers, importers, and filers making entry of a shipment of rough diamonds must either submit through U.S. Customs' Automated Broker Interface (ABI) system the unique identifying number of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment or, for non-ABI entries, indicate the certificate number on the Customs Form 7501 Entry Summary at each entry line.
Note 4 to § 592.301.
As of May 21, 2008, any diamond, regardless of value, that is described in subheadings 7102.10, 7102.21 or 7102.31, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States and is imported into the United States shall not be released from the custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) except by a formal entry for consumption, as defined in § 141.0a(f) of the CBP regulations. See 19 CFR 141.0a(f).
[[69 FR 56938, Sept. 23, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 29433, May 21, 2008; 83 FR 28372, June 19, 2018]]

§ 592.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a) With respect to all provisions of this part except for § 592.301(a)(3), 12:01 a.m., eastern daylight time, July 30, 2003; and
(b) With respect to § 592.301(a)(3), September 23, 2004.

§ 592.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, or other organization.

§ 592.304   Exporting authority.

(a) The term exporting authority means one or more entities designated by a Participant from whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is being exported as having the authority to validate the Kimberley Process Certificate.
exporting authority
means one or more entities designated by a Participant from whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is being exported as having the authority to validate the Kimberley Process Certificate.
(b) The exporting authority for the United States is the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
Note to § 592.304.
The Secretary of State will periodically publish in the Federal Register an up-to-date listing of the exporting authorities of all Participants.
Federal Register
an up-to-date listing of the exporting authorities of all Participants.

§ 592.305   Importation into the United States.

The term importation into the United States means the bringing of goods into the United States.
importation into the United States
means the bringing of goods into the United States.

§ 592.306   Importing authority.

(a) The term importing authority means one or more entities designated by a Participant into whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is being imported as having the authority to enforce the laws and regulations of the Participant regulating imports, including the verification of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment.
importing authority
means one or more entities designated by a Participant into whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is being imported as having the authority to enforce the laws and regulations of the Participant regulating imports, including the verification of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment.
(b) The importing authorities for the United States are the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection or, in the case of a territory or possession of the United States with its own customs administration, analogous officials.
Note to § 592.306.
The Secretary of State will periodically publish in the Federal Register an up-to-date listing of the importing authorities of all Participants.
Federal Register
an up-to-date listing of the importing authorities of all Participants.

§ 592.307   Kimberley Process Certificate.

The term Kimberley Process Certificate means a tamper- and forgery-resistant document that bears the following information in any language, provided that an English translation is incorporated:
Kimberley Process Certificate
means a tamper- and forgery-resistant document that bears the following information in any language, provided that an English translation is incorporated:
(a) The title “Kimberley Process Certificate” and the statement: “The rough diamonds in this shipment have been handled in accordance with the provisions of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme for rough diamonds”;
(b) Country of origin for shipment of parcels of unmixed (i.e., from the same) origin;
i.e.
, from the same) origin;
Note to paragraph (
b
):
A shipment including a parcel of mixed-origin rough diamonds is to be entered into the United States with the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment, and the certificate need not indicate the countries of origin of the diamonds. With respect to such a shipment, the country-of-origin field on the certificate must be filled in with asterisks. The shipment must, however, still comply with all other country-of-origin reporting requirements imposed by statute or regulation.
(c) Unique numbering with the Alpha 2 country code, according to ISO 3166-1;
(d) Date of issuance;
(e) Date of expiry;
(f) Name of issuing authority;
(g) Identification of exporter and importer;
(h) Carat weight/mass;
(i) Value in U.S. dollars;
(j) Number of parcels in the shipment;
(k) Relevant Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System; and
(l) Validation by the exporting authority.
Note to paragraph (
l
):
See § 592.301(a)(4) for procedures governing the validation of the Kimberley Process Certificate when exporting from the United States.

§ 592.308   Participant.

The term Participant means a state, customs territory, or regional economic integration organization identified by the Secretary of State as one for which rough diamonds are controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
Participant
means a state, customs territory, or regional economic integration organization identified by the Secretary of State as one for which rough diamonds are controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
Note to § 592.308.
The Secretary of State will periodically publish in the Federal Register an up-to-date listing of all Participants.
Federal Register
an up-to-date listing of all Participants.

§ 592.309   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 592.310   Rough diamond.

The term rough diamond means any diamond that is unworked or simply sawn, cleaved, or bruted and classifiable under subheading 7102.10, 7102.21, or 7102.31 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
rough diamond
means any diamond that is unworked or simply sawn, cleaved, or bruted and classifiable under subheading 7102.10, 7102.21, or 7102.31 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.

§ 592.311   United States.

The term United States, when used in the geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
United States,
when used in the geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.

§ 592.312   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen; any alien admitted for permanent residence into the United States; any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches); or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen; any alien admitted for permanent residence into the United States; any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches); or any person in the United States.

§ 592.313   Voided certificate.

The term voided certificate means a Kimberley Process Certificate intended to be used for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States that has been cancelled for reasons such as loss or error.
voided certificate
means a Kimberley Process Certificate intended to be used for the exportation of rough diamonds from the United States that has been cancelled for reasons such as loss or error.
[[83 FR 28373, June 19, 2018]]

§ 592.314   Tamper-resistant container.

The term tamper-resistant container means packaging having an indicator or barrier to entry that could reasonably be expected to provide visible evidence that tampering had occurred. Standard mailing and express consignment packaging, or such packaging that simply contains a resealable plastic bag, is not considered to be a tamper-resistant container.
tamper-resistant container
means packaging having an indicator or barrier to entry that could reasonably be expected to provide visible evidence that tampering had occurred. Standard mailing and express consignment packaging, or such packaging that simply contains a resealable plastic bag, is not considered to be a
tamper-resistant container.
[[83 FR 28373, June 19, 2018]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 592.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in this part or chapter or to any other regulation refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 592.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, or instruction issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, or instruction continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 592.403   Transshipment or transit through the United States.

The prohibitions in § 592.201 apply to the importation into, or exportation from, the United States, for transshipment or transit, of any rough diamond intended or destined for any country other than the United States, unless the shipment is sealed in a tamper-resistant container, accompanied by a Kimberley Process Certificate, and leaves the United States in the identical state in which it entered. The validation, recordkeeping, and reporting procedures applicable to importations and exportations do not apply in this case.

§ 592.404   Importation into or release from a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone.

The requirements of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme apply to all imported shipments of a rough diamond, regardless of whether they are destined for entry into, or withdrawal from, a bonded warehouse or a foreign trade zone of the United States.

Subpart E—Records and Reports


§ 592.501   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart F—Penalties


§ 592.601   Penalties.

(a) Section 8 of the Clean Diamond Trade Act (the Act) (Pub. L. 108-19, 117 Stat. 631, 19 U.S.C. 3901-3913) provides that:
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 8 of the Act may be imposed on any person who violates, or attempts to violate, any order or regulation issued under the Act;
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of the Act is $17,062.
(3) Whoever willfully violates, or willfully attempts to violate, any order or regulation issued under this Act shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $50,000, or, if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both; and any officer, director, or agent of any corporation who willfully participates in such violation may be punished by a like fine, imprisonment, or both; and
(4) Those customs laws of the United States, both civil and criminal, including those laws relating to seizure and forfeiture, that apply to articles imported in violation of such laws shall apply with respect to any rough diamond imported in violation of the Act.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
As reflected in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, section 8(a) of the Act establishes penalties with respect to any violation of any regulation issued under the Act. OFAC pre-penalty, penalty, and administrative collection procedures relating to such violations are set forth below in §§ 592.602 through 592.604. Section 8(c) of the Act also authorizes the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, as appropriate, to enforce the penalty provisions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and to enforce the laws and regulations governing exports of rough diamonds, including with respect to the validation of the Kimberley Process Certificate by the U.S. Bureau of the Census. The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) civil penalty procedures set forth below are separate from, and independent of, any penalty procedures that may be followed by the U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in their exercise of the authorities set forth in section 8(c) of the Act.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in the Act are subject to increase pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device, a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to other applicable laws.
[[69 FR 56938, Sept. 23, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 43076, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10439, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 83 FR 28373, June 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 20194; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 592.602   Pre-Penalty Notice; settlement.

(a) When required. If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Clean Diamond Trade Act, and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
When required.
If OFAC has reason to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Clean Diamond Trade Act, and determines that a civil monetary penalty is warranted, OFAC will issue a Pre-Penalty Notice informing the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty. A Pre-Penalty Notice shall be in writing. The Pre-Penalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For a description of the contents of a Pre-Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to respond to a Pre-Penalty Notice by making a written presentation to OFAC. For a description of the information that should be included in such a response, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(2) Deadline for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the Pre-Penalty Notice was mailed. If the Pre-Penalty Notice was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to a Pre-Penalty Notice need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the Pre-Penalty Notice, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the Pre-Penalty Notice. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Settlement. Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Settlement.
Settlement discussion may be initiated by OFAC, the alleged violator, or the alleged violator's authorized representative. For a description of practices with respect to settlement, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Guidelines. Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
Guidelines.
Guidelines for the imposition or settlement of civil penalties by OFAC are contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(e) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the Pre-Penalty Notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the Pre-Penalty Notice was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[83 FR 28373, June 19, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 592.603   Penalty imposition.

If, after considering any written response to the Pre-Penalty Notice and any relevant facts, OFAC determines that there was a violation by the alleged violator named in the Pre-Penalty Notice and that a civil monetary penalty is appropriate, OFAC may issue a Penalty Notice to the violator containing a determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty. For additional details concerning issuance of a Penalty Notice, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The issuance of the Penalty Notice shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
[[83 FR 28374, June 19, 2018]]

§ 592.604   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the violator does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to OFAC, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.
[[83 FR 28374, June 19, 2018]]

§ 592.605   Finding of violation.

(a) When issued. (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
When issued.
(1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:
(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, directive, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Clean Diamond Trade Act;
(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and,
(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.
(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(b) Response—(1) Right to respond. An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
Response
—(1)
Right to respond.
An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.
(2) Deadline for response; default determination. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Deadline for response; default determination.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(i) Computation of time for response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(ii) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.
(3) Form and method of response. A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Form and method of response.
A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof, contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to OFAC by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) Information that should be included in response. Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
Information that should be included in response.
Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.
(c) Determination—(1) Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
Determination
—(1)
Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.
(2) Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted. If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.
If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
)(2):
A determination by OFAC that a final Finding of Violation is not warranted does not preclude OFAC from pursuing other enforcement actions consistent with the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.
(d) Representation. A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.
[[83 FR 28374, June 19, 2018]]

Subpart G—Procedures


§ 592.701   Procedures.

For procedures relating to rulemaking and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 592.702   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13312 (FR vol. 68, No. 147, July 31, 2003) and any further Executive orders relating to the Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19) may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart H—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 592.801   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of the information collections relating to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of §§ 592.301(a)(1), subpart C, § 592.501, subpart E, and 592.603, subpart F, see § 501.901 of this chapter. The information collection requirements in §§ 592.301(a)(3) and (a)(4), subpart C, have been approved by the OMB and assigned control numbers 1505-0198 and 0607-0152, respectively. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
see
§ 501.901 of this chapter. The information collection requirements in §§ 592.301(a)(3) and (a)(4), subpart C, have been approved by the OMB and assigned control numbers 1505-0198 and 0607-0152, respectively. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 594—GLOBAL TERRORISM SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 22 U.S.C. 9404-9411; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205, as amended (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-348, 132 Stat. 5055 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13224, 66 FR 49079, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 786; E.O. 13268, 67 FR 44751, 3 CFR 2002 Comp., p. 240; E.O. 13284, 68 FR 4075, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 161; E.O. 13372, 70 FR 8499, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 159; E.O. 13886, 84 FR 48041, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 356.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 22 U.S.C. 9404-9411; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601-1651, 1701-1706; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205, as amended (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-348, 132 Stat. 5055 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); E.O. 13224, 66 FR 49079, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 786; E.O. 13268, 67 FR 44751, 3 CFR 2002 Comp., p. 240; E.O. 13284, 68 FR 4075, 3 CFR, 2003 Comp., p. 161; E.O. 13372, 70 FR 8499, 3 CFR, 2006 Comp., p. 159; E.O. 13886, 84 FR 48041, 3 CFR, 2019 Comp., p. 356.
[Source:68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 594.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 594.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked property.

(a) Except as authorized by statutes, regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses or otherwise, and notwithstanding any contracts entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, property and interests in property of the following persons that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that hereafter come within the possession or control of U.S. persons, including their overseas branches, are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn or otherwise dealt in:
(1) Persons listed in the Annex to Executive Order (E.O.) 13224 of September 23, 2001, as amended;
(2) Foreign persons determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) To have committed or have attempted to commit, to pose a significant risk of committing, or to have participated in training to commit acts of terrorism that threaten the security of U.S. nationals or the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States; or
(ii) To be a leader of an entity:
(A) Described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(B) Whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to a determination by the Secretary of State pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended;
(3) Persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Attorney General:
(i) To be owned, controlled, or directed by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section;
(ii) To own or control, directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section;
(iii) To have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, an act of terrorism as defined in § 594.311, or any person whose property and interest in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section;
(iv) To have participated in training related to terrorism provided by any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section;
(v) To be a leader or official of an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to:
(A) A determination by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
(B) Paragraph (a)(4) of this section; or
(vi) To have attempted or conspired to engage in any of the activities described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (a)(3)(v) of this section;
(4) Persons whose property and interests in property were blocked pursuant to E.O. 12947, as amended, on or after January 23, 1995, and remained blocked immediately prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on September 24, 2001;
(5) Foreign persons that are identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control as officials, agents, or affiliates of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC);
(6) Foreign persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to knowingly provide significant financial, material, or technological support for or to:
(i) Bayt al-Mal, Jihad al-Bina, the Islamic Resistance Support Association, the Foreign Relations Department of Hizballah, the External Security Organization of Hizballah, or any successor or affiliate thereof as designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(ii) Al-Manar TV, al Nour Radio, or the Lebanese Media Group, or any successor or affiliate thereof as designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;
(iii) A foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be engaged in fundraising or recruitment activities for Hizballah; or
(iv) A foreign person owned or controlled by a person described in paragraph (a)(6)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(7) Agencies or instrumentalities of a foreign state determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have, on or after October 25, 2018, knowingly:
(i) Conducted significant joint combat operations with, or significantly supported combat operations of, Hizballah; or
(ii) Provided significant financial support for or to, or significant arms or related materiel to, Hizballah;
(8) Foreign persons included on a list provided to Congress under paragraph (b) of Section 3 of the Sanctioning the Use of Civilians as Defenseless Shields Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-348) (Shields Act) because they have been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, on or after December 21, 2018:
(i) To be a member of Hizballah or to be knowingly acting on behalf of Hizballah; and
(ii) To knowingly order, control, or otherwise direct the use of civilians protected as such by the law of war to shield military objectives from attack;
(9) Foreign persons included on a list provided to Congress under paragraph (b) of Section 3 of the Shields Act because they have been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, on or after December 21, 2018:
(i) To be a member of HAMAS or to be knowingly acting on behalf of Hamas; and
(ii) To knowingly order, control, or otherwise direct the use of civilians protected as such by the law of war to shield military objectives from attack;
(10) Foreign persons, agencies, or instrumentalities of a foreign state, included on a list provided to Congress under paragraph (b) of Section 3 of the Shields Act because they have been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, on or after December 21, 2018, to knowingly and materially support, order, control, direct, or otherwise engage in:
(i) Any act described in paragraph (a)(8)(ii) of this section by a person described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section; or
(ii) Any act described in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section by a person described in paragraph (a)(9) of this section; or
(11) Foreign persons included on a list provided to Congress under paragraph (c) of Section 3 of the Shields Act because they have been determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, on or after December 21, 2018, to knowingly order, control, or otherwise direct the use of civilians protected as such by the law of war to shield military objectives from attack, and with respect to which the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, has exercised the authority to block all property and interests in property.
(b) Unless otherwise authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this section, any dealing in any security (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of or known to be held for the benefit of any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) is prohibited. This prohibition includes but is not limited to the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any such security or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on any such security. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such security may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the security.
(c) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the importation of any goods that would otherwise be prohibited solely due to the interest of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked solely pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) or (7) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph (c), the term “goods” means any articles, natural or manmade substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.
Note 2 to § 594.201:
The names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's SDN List with the identifier “[SDGT].” Persons who have been identified by the Office of Foreign Assets Control as officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to this part. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part will have the program tags “[SDGT] [IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website: https://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 594.412 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's SDN List with the identifier “[SDGT].” Persons who have been identified by the Office of Foreign Assets Control as officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC are identified by a special reference to the “IRGC” at the end of their entries on the SDN List, in addition to the reference to this part. For example, an affiliate of the IRGC whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part will have the program tags “[SDGT] [IRGC]” at the end of its entry on the SDN List. The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website:
https://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 594.412 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 3 to § 594.201:
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 4 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-PA]” or “[BPI-SDGT].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-PA]” or “[BPI-SDGT].”
Note 4 to § 594.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 5 to § 594.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 6 to § 594.201.
The prohibitions set forth in this part are separate from and in addition to other parts of 31 CFR chapter V, including but not limited to the Terrorism Sanctions Regulations (part 595), the Terrorism List Government Sanctions Regulations (part 596), and the Foreign Terrorist Organizations Sanctions Regulations (part 597). The prohibitions set forth in this part also are separate and apart from the criminal prohibition, set forth at 18 U.S.C. 2339B, against providing material support or resources to foreign terrorist organizations designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended.
[[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 4206, Jan. 30, 2007; 76 FR 38544, June 30, 2011; 78 FR 38575, June 27, 2013; 82 FR 50314, Oct. 31, 2017; 84 FR 35312, July 23, 2019; 87 FR 39338, July 1, 2022; 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024; 89 FR 75967, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 594.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), unless the person with whom such property is held or maintained, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property was held or maintained;
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Except to the extent otherwise provided by law or unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which on or since the effective date there existed an interest of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).

§ 594.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 594.201(a) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(3) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to this paragraph (b) may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(c) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 594.201(a) may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (b) or (d) of this section.
(d) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 594.201(a) may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(e) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as chattels or real estate, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property at the time the property becomes subject to § 594.201(a). However, the Office of Foreign Assets Control may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(f) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 594.204   Prohibited transaction or dealing in property; contributions of funds, goods, or services.

Except as otherwise authorized, no U.S. person may engage in any transaction or dealing in property or interests in property of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), including but not limited to the following transactions:
(a) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a); and
(b) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).
[[78 FR 38575, June 27, 2013]]

§ 594.205   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any transaction by any U.S. person or within the United States on or after the effective date that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, any conspiracy formed for the purpose of engaging in a transaction prohibited by this part is prohibited.

§ 594.206   Expenses of maintaining blocked property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of physical property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) may, in the discretion of the Director, Office of Foreign Assets Control, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 594.207   Exempt transactions.

The prohibitions contained in § 594.201(a)(6) and (7) do not apply to the following activities:
(a) Any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, or national security activities of the United States; or
(b) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United States, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, or the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or any other United States international agreement.
[[84 FR 35312, July 23, 2019]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 594.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibition in § 594.201 held in the name of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibition in § 594.201 held in the name of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 594.301.
See § 594.412 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201.
[[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 78480, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 594.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part as follows:
(a)(1) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a)(1) and who appeared on the Annex to E.O. 13224 as issued on September 23, 2001, 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time, September 24, 2001;
(2) With respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a)(1) and who was added to the Annex to E.O. 13224 after September 23, 2001, the date the person was added to the Annex to E.O. 13224, as amended;
(b) With respect to a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a)(2) through (a)(11), the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to one or more of these sections.
(c) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property is published in the
Federal Register
.
[[87 FR 39339, July 1, 2022]]

§ 594.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group, or subgroup.
entity
means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group, or subgroup.

§ 594.304   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States), or any entity not organized solely under the laws of the United States or existing solely in the United States, but does not include a foreign state.

§ 594.305   Information or informational materials.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term information or informational materials includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
information or informational materials
includes, but is not limited to, publications, films, posters, phonograph records, photographs, microfilms, microfiche, tapes, compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks, and news wire feeds.
Note to paragraph (
a
):
To be considered information or informational materials, artworks must be classified under chapter heading 9701, 9702, or 9703 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(b) The term information or informational materials, with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
information or informational materials,
with respect to United States exports, does not include items:
(1) That were, as of April 30, 1994, or that thereafter became, controlled for export pursuant to section 5 of the Export Administration Act of 1979, 50 U.S.C. App. 2401-2420 (1979) (the “EAA”), or section 6 of the EAA to the extent that such controls promote the nonproliferation or antiterrorism policies of the United States; or
(2) With respect to which acts are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. chapter 37.

§ 594.306   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 594.307   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in subpart E of this part but issued pursuant to this part.
Note to § 594.307:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 594.308   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 594.309   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include, but are not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.

§ 594.310   Specially designated global terrorist; SDGT.

The term specially designated global terrorist or SDGT means any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).
specially designated global terrorist
or
SDGT
means any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).
[[78 FR 38575, June 27, 2013]]

§ 594.311   Terrorism.

The term terrorism means an activity that:
terrorism
means an activity that:
(a) Involves a violent act or an act dangerous to human life, property, or infrastructure; and
(b) Appears to be intended:
(1) To intimidate or coerce a civilian population;
(2) To influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or
(3) To affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, kidnapping, or hostage-taking.

§ 594.312   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 594.313   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 594.314   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. person (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent; including but not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. person (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent; including but not limited to, depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 594.315   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, permanent resident alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 594.316   [Reserved]


§ 594.317   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support, as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including but not limited to currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support,
as used in this part, means any property, tangible or intangible, including but not limited to currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this definition means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
[[74 FR 61037, Nov. 23, 2009, as amended at 87 FR 39339, July 1, 2022]]

§ 594.318   Agency or instrumentality of a foreign state.

The term agency or instrumentality of a foreign state has the meaning given that term in section 1603(b) of title 28, United States Code.
agency or instrumentality of a foreign state
has the meaning given that term in section 1603(b) of title 28, United States Code.
[[84 FR 35312, July 23, 2019]]

§ 594.319   HAMAS.

The term HAMAS means:
HAMAS
means:
(a) The entity known as HAMAS and designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); or
(b) Any person:
(1) The property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
et seq.
); and
(2) Who is identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) maintained by OFAC as an agent, instrumentality, or affiliate of HAMAS.
Note 1 to § 594.319:
The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(9), (10), (11) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[SHIELD-ACT]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(9), (10), or (11), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[SHIELD-ACT].”
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(9), (10), (11) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[SHIELD-ACT]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(9), (10), or (11), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[SHIELD-ACT].”
[[84 FR 35313, July 23, 2019]]

§ 594.320   Hizballah.

The term Hizballah means:
Hizballah
means:
(a) The entity known as Hizballah and designated by the Secretary of State as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); or
(b) Any person:
(1) The property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
et seq.
); and
(2) Who is identified on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) maintained by OFAC as an agent, instrumentality, or affiliate of Hizballah.
Note 1 to § 594.320:
The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(8), (10), and (11) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[SHIELD-ACT]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(8), (10), or (11), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[SHIELD-ACT]”. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(6) and (7) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[HIFPAA]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(6) or (7), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[HIFPAA]”.
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(8), (10), and (11) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[SHIELD-ACT]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(8), (10), or (11), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[SHIELD-ACT]”. Persons on the SDN List based on conduct described in § 594.201(a)(6) and (7) are identified by a special reference at the end of their entries on the SDN List—“[HIFPAA]”—in addition to the reference to the regulatory part of this chapter pursuant to which their property and interests in property are blocked. For example, a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the Global Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, § 594.201(a)(6) or (7), and identified on the SDN List will have the program tag “[SDGT]” and “[HIFPAA]”.
[[84 FR 35313, July 23, 2019]]

§ 594.321   Knowingly.

The term knowingly, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
knowingly,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
[[84 FR 35313, July 23, 2019]]

§ 594.322   Arms or related materiel.

The term arms or related materiel means:
arms or related materiel
means:
(a) Nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological weapons or materials or components of such weapons;
(b) Ballistic or cruise missile weapons or materials or components of such weapons; or
(c) Destabilizing numbers and types of advanced conventional weapons.
[[84 FR 35313, July 23, 2019]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 594.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 594.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 594.403   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under §§ 594.201 and 594.204 if effected after the effective date.

§ 594.404   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) or any other part of this chapter, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 594.405   Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An incidental transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a); or
(b) An incidental transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 594.406   Provision of services.

(a) Except as provided in § 594.207, the prohibitions on transactions or dealings involving blocked property contained in §§ 594.201 and 594.204 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by an overseas branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a); or
(2) With respect to property interests subject to §§ 594.201 and 594.204.
(b) Example: U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, educational, or other services to a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).
Note to § 594.406:
See §§ 594.506 and 594.507, respectively, on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal or medical services.

§ 594.407   Offshore transactions.

The prohibitions in §§ 594.201 and 594.204 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property apply to transactions or dealings by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States with respect to property that the U.S. person knows, or has reason to know, is held in the name of a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) or in which the U.S. person knows, or has reason to know, a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) has or has had an interest since the effective date.

§ 594.408   Payments from blocked accounts to satisfy obligations prohibited.

Pursuant to §§ 594.201 and 594.204, no debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, except as authorized pursuant to this part.

§ 594.409   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution or donation of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions or donations to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a). For the purposes of this part, a contribution or donation is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions or donations by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions or donations from any such person.
[[78 FR 38575, June 27, 2013]]

§ 594.410   Credit extended and cards issued by U.S. financial institutions.

The prohibitions in §§ 594.201 and 594.204 on engaging in transactions or dealings in property subject to those sections prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including, but not limited to, charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a U.S. financial institution to a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a).

§ 594.411   Palestinian Authority.

Following the January 2006 Palestinian elections, Hamas, a designated terrorist entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201, has been determined to have a property interest in the transactions of the Palestinian Authority. Accordingly, pursuant to §§ 594.201 and 594.204, U.S. persons are prohibited from engaging in transactions with the Palestinian Authority unless authorized. Certain transactions with the Palestinian Authority may be authorized by license, see subpart E of this part.
[[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]]

§ 594.412   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
[[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 594.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[[68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 594.502   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.

§ 594.503   Exclusion from licenses and other authorizations.

The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 594.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) has any interest, that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution, must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 594.504.
Please refer to § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 594.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 594.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charge shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charge
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 594.506   Provision of certain legal services authorized.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) is authorized, provided that all receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed or otherwise authorized pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons when named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings;
(3) Initiation and conduct of domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings in defense of property interests subject to U.S. jurisdiction;
(4) Representation of persons before any federal or state agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons;
(5) Representation of persons, wherever located, detained within the jurisdiction of the United States or by the United States government, with respect to either such detention or any charges made against such persons, including, but not limited to, the conduct of military commission prosecutions and the initiation and conduct of federal court proceedings; and
(6) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of legal services not otherwise authorized by paragraph (a) of this section to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) in connection with the initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency is authorized, provided that all receipts of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be specifically licensed.
(c) The provision of any other legal services to persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a), not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement affecting property or interests in property or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) is prohibited except to the extent otherwise provided by law or unless specifically licensed in accordance with § 594.202(e).
[[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 78632, Dec. 23, 2008; 75 FR 75906, Dec. 7, 2010]]

§ 594.507   Authorization of emergency medical services.

The provision of nonscheduled emergency medical services in the United States to persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) is authorized, provided that all receipt of payment for such services must be specifically licensed.

§ 594.508   Transactions related to telecommunications authorized.

All transactions ordinarily incident to the receipt or transmission of telecommunications involving persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) are authorized, provided that any payment owed to any such person is paid into a blocked account in a U.S. financial institution. This section does not authorize the provision, sale, or lease to persons whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) of telecommunications equipment or technology; nor does it authorize the provision, sale, or leasing of capacity on telecommunications transmission facilities (such as satellite or terrestrial network connectivity).

§ 594.509   Transactions related to mail authorized.

All transactions by U.S. persons, including payment and transfers to common carriers, incident to the receipt or transmission of mail between a U.S. person and a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201(a) are authorized, provided the mail is limited to personal communications not involving a transfer of anything of value and not exceeding 12 ounces in weight.

§ 594.510   U.S. person employees of certain governments.

Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. persons who are employees of the governments of states bordering the West Bank or Gaza are authorized to engage in all transactions and activities outside of the United States with the Palestinian Authority that are otherwise prohibited under this part in support of the U.S. persons' official duties, provided that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 594.511   Travel, employment, residence and maintenance transactions with the Palestinian Authority.

Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions with the Palestinian Authority otherwise prohibited under this part that are ordinarily incident to their travel to or from, or employment, residence or personal maintenance within, the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, including, but not limited to, receipt of salaries, payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use. Nothing in this license authorizes any debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]]

§ 594.512   Payment of taxes and incidental fees to the Palestinian Authority.

Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. persons are authorized to pay taxes or fees to, and purchase or receive permits or public utility services from, the Palestinian Authority where such transactions are necessary and ordinarily incident to such persons' day-to-day operations. Nothing in this license authorizes a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]]

§ 594.513   Transactions with entities under the control of the Palestinian President and certain other entities.

(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions otherwise prohibited under this part with the following entities and individuals:
(1) The Palestinian Authority Presidency, including only the Office of the President, Presidential Security, General Intelligence Apparatus, Governors and Governorate staff, the Attorney General's Office, the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF), the Border Crossings Administration, and the Palestine Broadcasting Corporation (including the Voice of Palestine, Wafa News Agency, and the General Public Information Agency/State Information Services);
(2) The Palestinian Judiciary, including the Higher Judicial Council;
(3) Members of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) who were not elected to the PLC on the party slate of Hamas or any other Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), Specially Designated Terrorist (SDT), or Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT); and
(4) The following independent agencies: The Central Elections Commission; the Independent Citizens Rights Commission; the General Audit Authority/External Audit Agency; and the Palestinian Monetary Authority.
(b) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to reject transactions with members of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) who were elected to the PLC on the party slate of Hamas or any other Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), Specially Designated Terrorist (SDT), or Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT), provided that any such individuals are not named on OFAC's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons.
(c) Nothing in this license authorizes a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]]

§ 594.514   Concluding activities with the Palestinian Authority.

Effective April 12, 2006, all transactions and activities with the Palestinian Authority otherwise prohibited under this part are authorized through May 12, 2006, provided that they are necessary to conclude ongoing contracts or programs with the Palestinian Authority, and further provided that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
[[71 FR 27200, May 10, 2006]]

§ 594.515   In-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services.

(a) Effective July 6, 2006, nongovernmental organizations that are U.S. persons are authorized to provide in-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health, provided that such donations are strictly for distribution in the West Bank or Gaza and not intended for resale, and provided further that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) For the purposes of this section only, the term medical device has the meaning given the term “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321), including medical supplies, but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1.
Note to paragraph (
b
):
Nongovernmental organizations that are interested in providing items listed on the Commerce Control List to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health must apply for a specific license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[[72 FR 58743, Oct. 5, 2006]]

§ 594.516   Transactions with the Palestinian Authority authorized.

(a) As of June 20, 2007, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions otherwise prohibited under this part with the Palestinian Authority.
(b) For purposes of this section only, the term Palestinian Authority means the Palestinian Authority government of Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and President Mahmoud Abbas, including all branches, ministries, offices, and agencies (independent or otherwise) thereof.
Palestinian Authority
means the Palestinian Authority government of Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and President Mahmoud Abbas, including all branches, ministries, offices, and agencies (independent or otherwise) thereof.
[[72 FR 61518, Oct. 31, 2007]]

§ 594.517   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States and the formation of legal defense funds.

(a) Payments from funds originating outside the United States. (1) Effective December 7, 2010, receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201 are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Payments from funds originating outside the United States.
(1) Effective December 7, 2010, receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201 are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest or the receipt or payment of professional fees or reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(b).
(b) Legal defense funds. Effective December 7, 2010, U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to form legal defense funds from which payments of professional fees and reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a) may be debited provided that:
Legal defense funds.
Effective December 7, 2010, U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to form legal defense funds from which payments of professional fees and reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a) may be debited provided that:
(1) The legal defense fund must be held in a savings or checking account at a financial institution located in the United States;
(2) Prior to debiting the legal defense fund, the U.S. person responsible for establishing the legal defense fund must submit the following information to OFAC: a copy of a letter of engagement or a letter of intent to engage, specifying the services to be performed and signed by the individual to whom such services are to be provided, or, where services are to be provided to an entity, by a legal representative of the entity; the name of the individual or entity responsible for establishing the legal defense fund; the name of the financial institution at which the account for the legal defense fund will be held; a point of contact at the financial institution holding the account for the legal defense fund; and the account name and account number for the legal defense fund. The foregoing information must be accompanied by correspondence referencing this paragraph (b) and is to be submitted to OFAC at OFACReport@treasury.gov with this section number in the subject line.
OFACReport@treasury.gov
with this section number in the subject line.
(3) The legal defense fund may not receive funds from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 594.201 or any other part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute; and
(4) The U.S. person responsible for establishing the legal defense fund must notify the financial institution at which the account for the legal defense fund is held that the account may only be debited to make payments of professional fees and reimburse expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(a).
(5) Nothing in this paragraph (b) authorizes the formation or debiting of legal defense funds in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 594.506(b).
Note 1 to paragraph (
b
):
Any funds remaining in a legal defense fund account after all payments of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses authorized pursuant to this paragraph have been made or upon termination of the legal services for which payment is authorized pursuant to this paragraph are property in which the person to or on whose behalf the legal services were rendered has an interest and is subject to the prohibitions of this part. Persons in the possession or control of such remaining funds may apply for the unblocking of the funds by following the procedures set forth at § 501.801 of this chapter.
(c) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[75 FR 75906, Dec. 7, 2010, as amended at 89 FR 103649, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 594.518   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 594.519   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 594.520   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 594.520.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78504, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 594.521   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 594.521.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78505, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 594.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 594.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (the “Act”) (50 U.S.C. 1705), which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Act.
(1) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in Section 206 of the Act may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition issued under the Act.
(2) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation of the Act is the greater of $377,700 or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(3) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation of any license, order, regulation, or prohibition shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The civil penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in the Act are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is directed to section 5 of the United Nations Participation Act (22 U.S.C. 287c(b)), which provides that any person who willfully violates or evades or attempts to violate or evade any order, rule, or regulation issued by the President pursuant to the authority granted in that section, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $10,000 and, if a natural person, may also be imprisoned for not more than 10 years; and the officer, director, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation or evasion shall be punished by a like fine, imprisonment, or both and any property, funds, securities, papers, or other articles or documents, or any vessel, together with her tackle, apparel, furniture, and equipment, or vehicle, or aircraft, concerned in such violation shall be forfeited to the United States. The criminal penalties provided in the United Nations Participation Act are subject to increase pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(d) Attention is also directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device, a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(e) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 29253, May 22, 2006; 73 FR 32656, June 10, 2008; 81 FR 43077, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10439 Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27718, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14538, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 594.702   Prepenalty notice.

(a) When required. If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Director shall notify the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty by issuing a prepenalty notice. The prepenalty notice shall be in writing. The prepenalty notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter.
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Director shall notify the alleged violator of the agency's intent to impose a monetary penalty by issuing a prepenalty notice. The prepenalty notice shall be in writing. The prepenalty notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter.
(b) Contents of notice—(1) Facts of violation. The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
Contents of notice
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2) Right to respond. The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of the respondent's right to make a written presentation within the applicable 30-day period set forth in § 594.703 as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Right to respond.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of the respondent's right to make a written presentation within the applicable 30-day period set forth in § 594.703 as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(c) Informal settlement prior to issuance of prepenalty notice. At any time prior to the issuance of a prepenalty notice, an alleged violator may request in writing that, for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, the agency withhold issuance of the prepenalty notice for the exclusive purpose of effecting settlement of the agency's potential civil monetary penalty claims. In the event the Director grants the request, under terms and conditions within their discretion, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will agree to withhold issuance of the prepenalty notice for a period not to exceed 60 days and will enter into settlement negotiations of the potential civil monetary penalty claim.
Informal settlement prior to issuance of prepenalty notice.
At any time prior to the issuance of a prepenalty notice, an alleged violator may request in writing that, for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, the agency withhold issuance of the prepenalty notice for the exclusive purpose of effecting settlement of the agency's potential civil monetary penalty claims. In the event the Director grants the request, under terms and conditions within their discretion, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will agree to withhold issuance of the prepenalty notice for a period not to exceed 60 days and will enter into settlement negotiations of the potential civil monetary penalty claim.
[[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 594.703   Response to prepenalty notice; informal settlement.

(a) Deadline for response. The respondent may submit a response to the prepenalty notice within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The Director may grant, at their discretion, an extension of time in which to submit a response to the prepenalty notice. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
Deadline for response.
The respondent may submit a response to the prepenalty notice within the applicable 30-day period set forth in this paragraph. The Director may grant, at their discretion, an extension of time in which to submit a response to the prepenalty notice. The failure to submit a response within the applicable time period set forth in this paragraph shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond.
(1) Computation of time for response. A response to the prepenalty notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the prepenalty notice was mailed. If the respondent refused delivery or otherwise avoided receipt of the prepenalty notice, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date on the stamped postal receipt maintained at the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If the prepenalty notice was personally delivered to the respondent by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Director, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
Computation of time for response.
A response to the prepenalty notice must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier) on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the prepenalty notice was mailed. If the respondent refused delivery or otherwise avoided receipt of the prepenalty notice, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date on the stamped postal receipt maintained at the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If the prepenalty notice was personally delivered to the respondent by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by the Director, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.
(2) Extensions of time for response. If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the Director's discretion, only upon the respondent's specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Extensions of time for response.
If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the Director's discretion, only upon the respondent's specific request to the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(b) Form and method of response. The response must be submitted in writing and may be handwritten or typed. The response need not be in any particular form. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
Form and method of response.
The response must be submitted in writing and may be handwritten or typed. The response need not be in any particular form. A copy of the written response may be sent by facsimile, but the original also must be sent to the Office of Foreign Assets Control Civil Penalties Division by mail or courier and must be postmarked or date-stamped, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Contents of response. A written response must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice.
Contents of response.
A written response must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice.
(1) A written response must include the respondent's full name, address, telephone number, and facsimile number, if available, or those of the representative of the respondent.
(2) A written response should either admit or deny each specific violation alleged in the prepenalty notice and also state if the respondent has no knowledge of a particular violation. If the written response fails to address any specific violation alleged in the prepenalty notice, that alleged violation shall be deemed to be admitted.
(3) A written response should include any information in defense, evidence in support of an asserted defense, or other factors that the respondent requests the Office of Foreign Assets Control to consider. Any defense or explanation previously made to the Office of Foreign Assets Control or any other agency must be repeated in the written response. Any defense not raised in the written response will be considered waived. The written response also should set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(d) Default. If the respondent elects not to submit a written response within the time limit set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will conclude that the respondent has decided not to respond to the prepenalty notice. The agency generally will then issue a written penalty notice imposing the penalty proposed in the prepenalty notice.
Default.
If the respondent elects not to submit a written response within the time limit set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Office of Foreign Assets Control will conclude that the respondent has decided not to respond to the prepenalty notice. The agency generally will then issue a written penalty notice imposing the penalty proposed in the prepenalty notice.
(e) Informal settlement. In addition to or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. However, the requirements set forth in paragraph (f) of this section as to oral communication by the representative must first be fulfilled. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the claim proposed in the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent will not be required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the time limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice will remain in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Informal settlement.
In addition to or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. However, the requirements set forth in paragraph (f) of this section as to oral communication by the representative must first be fulfilled. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the claim proposed in the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent will not be required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the time limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice will remain in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(f) Representation. A representative of the respondent may act on behalf of the respondent, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the prepenalty notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the prepenalty notice was served upon the respondent in care of the representative.
Representation.
A representative of the respondent may act on behalf of the respondent, but any oral communication with the Office of Foreign Assets Control prior to a written submission regarding the specific allegations contained in the prepenalty notice must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the prepenalty notice was served upon the respondent in care of the representative.
[[68 FR 34197, June 6, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 594.704   Penalty imposition or withdrawal.

(a) No violation. If, after considering any response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and of the cancellation of the proposed monetary penalty.
No violation.
If, after considering any response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and of the cancellation of the proposed monetary penalty.
(b) Violation. (1) If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice, or default in the submission of a written response, and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director is authorized to issue a written penalty notice to the respondent of the determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty.
Violation.
(1) If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice, or default in the submission of a written response, and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director is authorized to issue a written penalty notice to the respondent of the determination of the violation and the imposition of the monetary penalty.
(2) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent that payment or arrangement for installment payment of the assessed penalty must be made within 30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(3) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent of the requirement to furnish the respondent's taxpayer identification number pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701 and that such number will be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent penalty amount.
(4) The issuance of the penalty notice finding a violation and imposing a monetary penalty shall constitute final agency action. The respondent has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in a federal district court.

§ 594.705   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the respondent does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 594.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[[68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 594.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Executive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001, and any further Executive orders relating to the national emergency declared therein, and any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to Presidential Memorandum of October 11, 2017: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017 or any further Presidential action relating to Title I of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017 (Pub. L. 115-44), Presidential Memorandum of January 15, 2019: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, as Amended, and the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2018, and Presidential Memorandum of May 24, 2019: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under the Sanctioning the Use of Civilians as Defenseless Shields Act, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[82 FR 50314, Oct. 31, 2017, as amended at 87 FR 39339, July 1, 2022]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 594.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 596—TERRORISM LIST GOVERNMENTS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:18 U.S.C. 2332d; 22 U.S.C. 7201-7211; 31 U.S.C. 321(b).]
Authority:
18 U.S.C. 2332d; 22 U.S.C. 7201-7211; 31 U.S.C. 321(b).
[Source:61 FR 43463, Aug. 23, 1996, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
61 FR 43463, Aug. 23, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 596.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. Except as otherwise authorized in this part, no license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. Except as otherwise authorized in this part, no license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. See § 596.503.
(b) No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[61 FR 43463, Aug. 23, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 596.201   Prohibited financial transactions.

Except as authorized by regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, licenses, or otherwise, no United States person, on or after the effective date, knowing or having reasonable cause to know that a country is designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism, shall engage in a financial transaction with the government of that country.
Note to § 596.201: The name of each country that has been designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism is published in the Federal Register by the Department of State, and a complete list of countries currently so designated can be found via the Web site of the Department of State at http://www.state.gov/j/ct/.
Federal Register
by the Department of State, and a complete list of countries currently so designated can be found via the Web site of the Department of State at
http://www.state.gov/j/ct/.
[[80 FR 34054, June 15, 2015]]

§ 596.202   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

Any transaction for the purpose of, or which has the effect of, evading or avoiding, or which facilitates the evasion or avoidance of, any of the prohibitions set forth in this part, is hereby prohibited. Any attempt to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is hereby prohibited. Any conspiracy formed for the purpose of engaging in a transaction prohibited by this part is hereby prohibited.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 596.301   Donation.

The term donation means a transfer made in the form of a gift or charitable contribution.
donation
means a transfer made in the form of a gift or charitable contribution.

§ 596.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part which is 12:01 a.m. EDT, August 22, 1996.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part which is 12:01 a.m. EDT, August 22, 1996.

§ 596.303   Financial institution.

The term financial institution shall have the definition given that term in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or the regulations promulgated thereunder, as from time to time amended.
financial institution
shall have the definition given that term in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or the regulations promulgated thereunder, as from time to time amended.
Note:
The breadth of the definition precludes its reproduction in this section.

§ 596.304   Financial transaction.

The term financial transaction shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(4), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes:
financial transaction
shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(4), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes:
(a) A transaction which in any way or degree affects interstate or foreign commerce;
(1) Involving the movement of funds by wire or other means; or
(2) Involving one or more monetary instruments; or
(3) Involving the transfer of title to any real property, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft; or
(b) A transaction involving the use of a financial institution which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce in any way or degree.

§ 596.305   General license.

The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in this part.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in this part.

§ 596.306   License.

Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.

§ 596.307   Monetary instruments.

The term monetary instruments shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(5), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes coin or currency of the United States or of any other country, travelers' checks, personal checks, bank checks, and money orders, or investment securities or negotiable instruments, in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery.
monetary instruments
shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(5), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes coin or currency of the United States or of any other country, travelers' checks, personal checks, bank checks, and money orders, or investment securities or negotiable instruments, in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery.

§ 596.308   Person; entity.

(a) The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.
(b) The term entity means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization.

§ 596.309   Specific license.

The term specific license means any license or authorization not set forth in this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in this part but issued pursuant to this part.

§ 596.310   Terrorism List Government.

The term Terrorism List Government includes:
Terrorism List Government
includes:
(a) The government of a country designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, as well as any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including the central bank of such a country;
(b) Any entity owned or controlled by such a government.

§ 596.311   Transaction.

The term transaction shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(3), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, use of a safe deposit box, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.
transaction
shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(3), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, use of a safe deposit box, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.

§ 596.312   United States.

The term United States means the United States, including its territories and possessions.
United States
means the United States, including its territories and possessions.

§ 596.313   United States person.

The term United States person means any United States citizen or national, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of the United States, or any person in the United States.
United States person
means any United States citizen or national, permanent resident alien, juridical person organized under the laws of the United States, or any person in the United States.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 596.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any section of this part or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 596.402   Effect of amendment.

Any amendment, modification, or revocation of any section of this part or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not, unless otherwise specifically provided, affect any act done or omitted to be done, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 596.403   Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized.

§ 596.404   Financial transactions transferred through a bank of a Terrorism List Government.

For the purposes of this part only, a financial transaction not originated by a Terrorism List Government, but transferred to the United States through a bank owned or controlled by a Terrorism List Government, shall not be deemed a financial transaction with the government of a country supporting international terrorism pursuant to § 596.201.

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 596.500   Licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[[68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 596.501   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless specifically provided in such license or other authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes a transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to a part in 31 CFR chapter V. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part authorizes any transactions prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition or prohibitions contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.

§ 596.502   Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.

The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license, or from the privileges therein conferred, or to restrict the applicability thereof with respect to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such action is binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of such exclusion or restriction.

§ 596.503   Financial transactions with a Terrorism List Government otherwise subject to 31 CFR chapter V.

United States persons are authorized to engage in financial transactions with a Terrorism List Government that is subject to regulations contained in parts of 31 CFR chapter V other than this part to the extent and subject to the conditions stated in such other parts, or in any regulations, orders, directives, rulings, instructions, or licenses issued pursuant thereto.

§ 596.504   Certain financial transactions with Terrorism List Governments authorized.

(a) United States persons are authorized to engage in all financial transactions with a Terrorism List Government that is not otherwise subject to 31 CFR chapter V, except for a transfer from a Terrorism List Government:
(1) Constituting a donation to a United States person; or
(2) With respect to which the United States person knows (including knowledge based on advice from an agent of the United States Government), or has reasonable cause to believe, that the transfer poses a risk of furthering terrorist acts in the United States.
(b) Nothing in this section authorizes the return of a transfer prohibited by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

§ 596.505   Certain transactions related to stipends and scholarships authorized.

(a) United States persons are authorized to engage in all financial transactions with respect to stipends and scholarships covering tuition and related educational, living and travel expenses provided by the Government of Syria to Syrian nationals who are enrolled as students in an accredited educational institution in the United States. Representations made by an accredited educational institution concerning the status of a student maybe relied upon in determining the applicability of this section.
(b) Nothing in this section authorizes a transaction prohibited by § 596.504(a)(2).
[[61 FR 67944, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 86 FR 27274, May 20, 2021]]

§ 596.506   [Reserved]


§ 596.507   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 596.508   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 596.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to records and reports, see subpart C of part 501 of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 596.701   Penalties.

Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 2332d, as added by Public Law 104-132, section 321, which provides that, except as provided in regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, a United States person, knowing or having reasonable cause to know that a country is designated under section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 2405, as a country supporting international terrorism, engages in a financial transaction with the government of that country, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 596.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[[62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 596.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to section 321 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-132, 110 Stat. 1214, 1254 (18 U.S.C. 2332d), may be taken by the Director, Office of Foreign Assets Control, or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[61 FR 43463, Aug. 23, 1996. Redesignated at 62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 596.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, to licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and to other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.
[[62 FR 45112, Aug. 25, 1997]]

PART 597—FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:8 U.S.C. 1189; 18 U.S.C. 2339B; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).]
Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1189; 18 U.S.C. 2339B; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
[Source:62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 597.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Differing statutory authority and foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.
(b) No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations. This part does not implement, construe, or limit the scope of any other part of this chapter, including (but not limited to) the Terrorism Sanctions Regulations, part 595 of this chapter, and does not excuse any person from complying with any other part of this chapter, including (but not limited to) part 595 of this chapter.
(c) This part does not implement, construe, or limit the scope of any criminal statute, including (but not limited to) 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1) and 2339A, and does not excuse any person from complying with any criminal statute, including (but not limited to) 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1) and 18 U.S.C. 2339A.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 597.201   Prohibited transactions involving blocked assets or funds of foreign terrorist organizations or their agents.

(a) Upon notification to Congress of the Secretary of State's intent to designate an organization as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a), until the publication in the Federal Register as described in paragraph (c) of this section, any U.S. financial institution receiving notice from the Secretary of the Treasury by means of order, directive, instruction, regulation, ruling, license, or otherwise shall, except as otherwise provided in such notice, block all financial transactions involving any assets of such organization within the possession or control of such U.S. financial institution until further directive from the Secretary of the Treasury, Act of Congress, or order of court.
Federal Register
as described in paragraph (c) of this section, any U.S. financial institution receiving notice from the Secretary of the Treasury by means of order, directive, instruction, regulation, ruling, license, or otherwise shall, except as otherwise provided in such notice, block all financial transactions involving any assets of such organization within the possession or control of such U.S. financial institution until further directive from the Secretary of the Treasury, Act of Congress, or order of court.
(b) Except as otherwise authorized by order, directive, instruction, regulation, ruling, license, or otherwise, from and after the designation of an organization as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a), any U.S. financial institution that becomes aware that it has possession of or control over any funds in which the designated foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest shall:
(1) Retain possession of or maintain control over such funds; and
(2) Report to the Secretary of the Treasury the existence of such funds in accordance with § 501.603 of this chapter.
(c) Publication in the Federal Register of the designation of an organization as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a) shall be deemed to constitute a further directive from the Secretary of the Treasury for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, and shall require the actions contained in paragraph (b) of this section.
Federal Register
of the designation of an organization as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a) shall be deemed to constitute a further directive from the Secretary of the Treasury for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, and shall require the actions contained in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall remain in effect until the effective date of an administrative, judicial, or legislative revocation of the designation of an organization as a foreign terrorist organization, or until the designation lapses, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189.
(e) When a transaction results in the blocking of funds at a financial institution pursuant to this section and a party to the transaction believes the funds have been blocked due to mistaken identity, that party may seek to have such funds unblocked pursuant to the administrative procedures set forth in § 501.806 of this chapter. Requests for the unblocking of funds pursuant to § 501.806 must be submitted to the attention of the Compliance Programs Division.

§ 597.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date which is in violation of § 597.201 or any other provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, license, or other authorization hereunder and involves any funds or assets held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has or has had an interest since such date, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power or privilege with respect to such funds or assets.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or interest in, any funds or assets held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest, or has had an interest since such date, unless the financial institution with whom such funds or assets are held or maintained, prior to such date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or render it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued hereunder.
(d) Transfers of funds or assets which otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any financial institution with whom such funds or assets were held or maintained (and as to such financial institution only) in cases in which such financial institution is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the financial institution with whom such funds or assets were held or maintained;
(2) The financial institution with which such funds or assets were held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such institution, that such transfer required a license or authorization by or pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The financial institution with which such funds or assets were held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other direction or authorization hereunder; or
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or the withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
):
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Except for exercises of judicial authority pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(b), unless licensed or authorized pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any funds or assets which, on or since the effective date, were in the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution and were held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which there existed an interest of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent.

§ 597.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, or as otherwise directed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, any U.S. financial institution holding funds subject to § 597.201(b) shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account which is in the name of the foreign terrorist organization or its agent and which is located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) in a federally-insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates which are commercially reasonable for the amount of funds in the account or certificate of deposit; or
(ii) with a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury Bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked interest-bearing account pursuant to this paragraph may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days. If interest is credited to a separate blocked account or sub-account, the name of the account party on each account must be the same and must clearly indicate the foreign terrorist organization or agent having an interest in the accounts.
(c) Blocked funds held as of the effective date in the form of stocks, bonds, debentures, letters of credit, or instruments which cannot be negotiated for the purpose of placing the funds in a blocked interest-bearing account pursuant to paragraph (a) may continue to be held in the form of the existing security or instrument until liquidation or maturity, provided that any dividends, interest income, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(d) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner in which an immediate financial or economic benefit or access accrues to the foreign terrorist organization or its agent.

§ 597.204   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

Any transaction for the purpose of, or which has the effect of, evading or avoiding, or which facilitates the evasion or avoidance of, any of the prohibitions set forth in this part, is hereby prohibited. Any attempt to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is hereby prohibited. Any conspiracy formed for the purpose of engaging in a transaction prohibited by this part is hereby prohibited.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 597.301   Agent.

(a) The term agent means:
agent
means:
(1) Any person owned or controlled by a foreign terrorist organization; or
(2) Any person to the extent that such person is, or has been, or to the extent that there is reasonable cause to believe that such person is, or has been, since the effective date, acting or purporting to act directly or indirectly on behalf of a foreign terrorist organization.
(b) The term agent includes, but is not limited to, any person determined by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control to be an agent as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
agent
includes, but is not limited to, any person determined by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control to be an agent as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
Note to § 597.301:
The names of persons designated as foreign terrorist organizations or determined to fall within this definition are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[FTO].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Section 501.807 of this chapter sets forth the procedures to be followed by a person seeking administrative reconsideration of a determination that the person falls within this definition, or who wishes to assert that the circumstances resulting in such a determination are no longer applicable.
Federal Register
and incorporated into the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) with the identifier “[FTO].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. Section 501.807 of this chapter sets forth the procedures to be followed by a person seeking administrative reconsideration of a determination that the person falls within this definition, or who wishes to assert that the circumstances resulting in such a determination are no longer applicable.
[[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 38544, June 30, 2011; 78 FR 38577, June 27, 2013]]

§ 597.302   Assets.

The term assets includes, but is not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.
assets
includes, but is not limited to, money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future or contingent.

§ 597.303   Blocked account; blocked funds.

The terms blocked account and blocked funds shall mean any account or funds subject to the prohibitions in § 597.201 held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked funds
shall mean any account or funds subject to the prohibitions in § 597.201 held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent or in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to an authorization or license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control authorizing such action.

§ 597.304   Designation.

The term designation includes both the designation and redesignation of a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189.
designation
includes both the designation and redesignation of a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189.

§ 597.305   Effective date.

Except as that term is used in § 597.201(d), the term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part which is October 6, 1997, or, in the case of foreign terrorist organizations designated after that date and their agents, the earlier of the date on which a financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such designation or of the Secretary of Treasury's exercise of their authority to block financial transactions pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a)(2)(C) and § 597.201(a).
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part which is October 6, 1997, or, in the case of foreign terrorist organizations designated after that date and their agents, the earlier of the date on which a financial institution receives actual or constructive notice of such designation or of the Secretary of Treasury's exercise of their authority to block financial transactions pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(a)(2)(C) and § 597.201(a).
[[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 597.306   Entity.

The term entity includes a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group, or subgroup.
entity
includes a partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, group, or subgroup.

§ 597.307   Financial institution.

The term financial institution shall have the definition given that term in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) as from time to time amended, notwithstanding the definition of that term in 31 CFR part 103.
financial institution
shall have the definition given that term in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) as from time to time amended, notwithstanding the definition of that term in 31 CFR part 103.
Note:
The breadth of the statutory definition of financial institution precludes its reproduction in this section. Among the types of businesses covered are insured banks (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(h)), commercial banks or trust companies, private bankers, agencies or branches of a foreign bank in the United States, insured institutions (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1724(a)), thrift institutions, brokers or dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq., securities or commodities brokers and dealers, investment bankers or investment companies, currency exchanges, issuers, redeemers, or cashiers of traveler's checks, checks, money orders, or similar instruments, credit card system operators, insurance companies, dealers in precious metals, stones or jewels, pawnbrokers, loan or finance companies, travel agencies, licensed senders of money, telegraph companies, businesses engaged in vehicle sales, including automobile, airplane or boat sales, persons involved in real estate closings and settlements, the United States Postal Service, a casino, gambling casino, or gaming establishment with an annual gaming revenue of more than $1,000,000 as further described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2), or agencies of the United States Government or of a State or local government carrying out a duty or power of any of the businesses described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2).
financial institution
precludes its reproduction in this section. Among the types of businesses covered are insured banks (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(h)), commercial banks or trust companies, private bankers, agencies or branches of a foreign bank in the United States, insured institutions (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1724(a)), thrift institutions, brokers or dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under 15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.,
securities or commodities brokers and dealers, investment bankers or investment companies, currency exchanges, issuers, redeemers, or cashiers of traveler's checks, checks, money orders, or similar instruments, credit card system operators, insurance companies, dealers in precious metals, stones or jewels, pawnbrokers, loan or finance companies, travel agencies, licensed senders of money, telegraph companies, businesses engaged in vehicle sales, including automobile, airplane or boat sales, persons involved in real estate closings and settlements, the United States Postal Service, a casino, gambling casino, or gaming establishment with an annual gaming revenue of more than $1,000,000 as further described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2), or agencies of the United States Government or of a State or local government carrying out a duty or power of any of the businesses described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2).

§ 597.308   Financial transaction.

The term financial transaction means a transactioninvolving the transfer or movement of funds, whether by wire or other means.
financial transaction
means a transactioninvolving the transfer or movement of funds, whether by wire or other means.

§ 597.309   Foreign terrorist organization.

The term foreign terrorist organization means an organization designated or redesignated as a foreign terrorist organization, or with respect to which the Secretary of State has notified Congress of the intention to designate as a foreign terrorist organization, under 8 U.S.C. 1189(a).
foreign terrorist organization
means an organization designated or redesignated as a foreign terrorist organization, or with respect to which the Secretary of State has notified Congress of the intention to designate as a foreign terrorist organization, under 8 U.S.C. 1189(a).

§ 597.310   Funds.

The term funds includes coin or currency of the United States or any other country, traveler's checks, personal checks, bank checks, money orders, stocks, bonds, debentures, drafts, letters of credit, any other negotiable instrument, and any electronic representation of any of the foregoing. An electronic representation of any of the foregoing includes any form of digital or electronic cash, coin, or currency in use currently or placed in use in the future.
funds
includes coin or currency of the United States or any other country, traveler's checks, personal checks, bank checks, money orders, stocks, bonds, debentures, drafts, letters of credit, any other negotiable instrument, and any electronic representation of any of the foregoing. An electronic representation of any of the foregoing includes any form of digital or electronic cash, coin, or currency in use currently or placed in use in the future.

§ 597.311   General license.

The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in this part.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in this part.

§ 597.312   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest when used with respect to funds or assets (e.g., “an interest in funds”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
when used with respect to funds or assets (e.g., “an interest in funds”) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 597.313   License.

Except as otherwise specified, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.

§ 597.314   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 597.315   Specific license.

The term specific license means any license or authorization not set forth in this part but issued pursuant to this part.
specific license
means any license or authorization not set forth in this part but issued pursuant to this part.

§ 597.316   Transaction.

The term transaction shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(3), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition of any asset, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, use of a safe deposit box, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.
transaction
shall have the meaning set forth in 18 U.S.C. 1956(c)(3), as from time to time amended. As of the effective date, this term includes a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition of any asset, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, use of a safe deposit box, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.

§ 597.317   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property and, without limitation upon the foregoing, shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 597.318   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories, states, commonwealths, districts, and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories, states, commonwealths, districts, and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 597.319   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means:
U.S. financial institution
means:
(a) Any financial institution organized under the laws of the United States, including such financial institution's foreign branches;
(b) Any financial institution operating or doing business in the United States; or
(c) Those branches, offices and agencies of foreign financial institutions which are located in the United States, but not such foreign financial institutions' other foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 597.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any section of this part or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part shall be deemed to refer to the same as currently amended.

§ 597.402   Effect of amendment.

Any amendment, modification, or revocation of any section of this part or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control shall not, unless otherwise specifically provided, be deemed to affect any act done or omitted to be done, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license shall continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 597.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked funds.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of funds (including any interest in funds) away from a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, such funds shall no longer be deemed to be funds in which the foreign terrorist organization or its agent has or has had an interest, or which are held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, unless there exists in the funds another interest of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if funds (including any interest in funds) are or at any time since the effective date have been held by a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, or at any time thereafter are transferred or attempted to be transferred to a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, including by the making of any contribution to or for the benefit of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, such funds shall be deemed to be funds in which there exists an interest of the foreign terrorist organization or its agent.

§ 597.404   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked funds (including a blocked account) by a U.S. financial institution is a prohibited transaction under § 597.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 597.405   Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except a transaction by an unlicensed, foreign terrorist organization or its agent or involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked funds not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license.

§ 597.406   Offshore transactions.

The prohibitions contained in § 597.201 apply to transactions by U.S. financial institutions in locations outside the United States with respect to funds or assets which the U.S. financial institution knows, or becomes aware, are held in the name of a foreign terrorist organization or its agent, or in which the U.S. financial institution knows, or becomes aware that, a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has or has had an interest since the effective date.

§ 597.407   Palestinian Authority.

Following the January 2006 Palestinian elections, Hamas, a designated terrorist entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201, has been determined to have a property interest in the transactions of the Palestinian Authority. Accordingly, pursuant to § 597.201, U.S. persons are prohibited from engaging in transactions with the Palestinian Authority unless authorized. Certain transactions with the Palestinian Authority may be authorized by license, see subpart E of this part.
[[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 597.500   Licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[[68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 597.501   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, shall be deemed to authorize or validate any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition or prohibitions contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.

§ 597.502   Exclusion from licenses and authorizations.

The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license, or from the privileges therein conferred, or to restrict the applicability thereof with respect to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such action shall be binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of such exclusion or restriction.

§ 597.503   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

(a) Any payment of funds or transfer of credit or other financial or economic resources or assets by a financial institution into a blocked account in a U.S. financial institution is authorized, provided that a transfer from a blocked account pursuant to this authorization may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name on the books of the same U.S. financial institution.
(b) This section does not authorize any transfer from a blocked account within the United States to an account held outside the United States.
Note to § 597.503:
Please refer to §§ 501.603 and 597.601 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.

§ 597.504   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) U.S. financial institutions are hereby authorized to debit any blocked account with such U.S. financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed to such U.S. financial institution by the owner of such blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charge shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photostats, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail insurance, stationery and supplies, check books, and other similar items.

§ 597.505   Payment for certain legal services.

Except as otherwise authorized, specific licenses may be issued, on a case-by-case basis, authorizing receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses through a U.S. financial institution for the following legal services by U.S. persons:
(a) Provision of legal advice and counseling to a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling is not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of any of the prohibitions of this part;
(b) Representation of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof when named as a defendant in or otherwise made a party to domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings;
(c) Initiation and conduct of domestic U.S. legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings on behalf of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof;
(d) Representation of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof before any federal or state agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof;
(e) Representation of an agent of a foreign terrorist organization, wherever located, detained within the jurisdiction of the United States or by the United States government, with respect to either such detention or any charges made against such agent, including, but not limited to, the conduct of military commission prosecutions and the initiation and conduct of federal court proceedings;
(f) Provision of legal services to a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense; and
(g) Representation of a foreign terrorist organization seeking judicial review of a designation before the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189(b)(1).
Note to § 597.505:
See § 597.513 of this part for authorized mechanisms for payment through a U.S. financial institution of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for legal services specified in this section provided by a U.S. person to or on behalf of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof.
See
§ 597.513 of this part for authorized mechanisms for payment through a U.S. financial institution of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for legal services specified in this section provided by a U.S. person to or on behalf of a foreign terrorist organization or an agent thereof.
[[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 73 FR 78633, Dec. 23, 2008; 75 FR 75909, Dec. 7, 2010]]

§ 597.506   Official activities of certain international organizations; U.S. person employees of certain governments.

(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to engage in all financial transactions with the Palestinian Authority otherwise prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United Nations, provided that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) For purposes of this section only, the term “United Nations” means its principal organs, including funds, bodies, commissions, agencies, departments and other entities of the Security Council, General Assembly, Economic and Social Council and Secretariat, specifically including, among others, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the World Food Programme, and the World Health Organization.
(c) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
[[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]]

§ 597.507   Travel, employment, residence and maintenance transactions with the Palestinian Authority.

(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to engage in all transactions that are ordinarily incident to U.S. persons' travel to or from, or employment, residence or personal maintenance within, the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, including, but not limited to, receipt of salaries, payment of living expenses and acquisition of goods or services for personal use. Nothing in this license authorizes any debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
[[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]]

§ 597.508   Payment of taxes and incidental fees to the Palestinian Authority.

(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to conduct all transactions ordinarily incident to the following activities by U.S. persons: the payment of taxes or fees to, or the purchase or receipt of permits or public utility services from, the Palestinian Authority where such transactions are necessary and ordinarily incident to such persons' day-to-day operations. Nothing in this license authorizes a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
[[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]]

§ 597.509   Transactions with entities under the control of the Palestinian President and certain other entities.

(a) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to engage in all transactions otherwise prohibited under this part with the following entities and individuals:
(1) The Palestinian Authority Presidency, including only the Office of the President, Presidential Security, General Intelligence Apparatus, Governors and Governorate staff, the Attorney General's Office, the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF), the Border Crossings Administration, and the Palestine Broadcasting Corporation (including the Voice of Palestine, Wafa News Agency, and the General Public Information Agency/State Information Services);
(2) The Palestinian Judiciary, including the Higher Judicial Council;
(3) Members of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) who were not elected to the PLC on the party slate of Hamas or any other Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), Specially Designated Terrorist (SDT), or Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT); and
(4) The following independent agencies: The Central Elections Commission; the Independent Citizens Rights Commission; the General Audit Authority/External Audit Agency; and the Palestinian Monetary Authority.
(b) Effective April 12, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to reject transactions with members of the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) who were elected to the PLC on the party slate of Hamas or any other Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), Specially Designated Terrorist (SDT), or Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT), provided that any such individuals are not named on OFAC's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons.
(c) Nothing in this license authorizes a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(d) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section. The retention provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (b) of this section.
[[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]]

§ 597.510   Concluding activities with the Palestinian Authority.

(a) Effective April 12, 2006, all transactions and activities with the Palestinian Authority otherwise prohibited under this part are authorized through May 12, 2006, provided that they are necessary to conclude ongoing contracts or programs with the Palestinian Authority, and further provided that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraph (a) of this section.
[[71 FR 27202, May 10, 2006]]

§ 597.511   In-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services.

(a) Effective July 6, 2006, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to conduct all transactions ordinarily incident to the provision by nongovernmental organizations that are U.S. persons of in-kind donations of medicine, medical devices, and medical services to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health, provided that such donations are strictly for distribution in the West Bank or Gaza and not intended for resale, and provided further that no payment pursuant to this license may involve a debit to an account of the Palestinian Authority on the books of a U.S. financial institution or to any account blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) For the purposes of this section only, the term medical device has the meaning given the term “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321), including medical supplies, but does not include any item listed on the Commerce Control List in the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR part 774, supplement no. 1.
(c) U.S. financial institutions are authorized to conduct all transactions ordinarily incident to the provision by nongovernmental organizations that are U.S. persons of in-kind donations of medical devices listed on the Commerce Control List to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Health, provided that
(1) Such donation is licensed by OFAC; and
(2) Such donation is authorized under or pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations.
(d) The retention and reporting provisions of § 597.201 shall not apply with respect to transactions authorized by paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
[[71 FR 58744, Oct. 5, 2006]]

§ 597.512   Transactions with the Palestinian Authority authorized.

(a) As of June 20, 2007, U.S. persons are authorized to engage in all transactions otherwise prohibited under this part with the Palestinian Authority.
(b) For purposes of this section only, the term Palestinian Authority means the Palestinian Authority government of Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and President Mahmoud Abbas, including all branches, ministries, offices, and agencies (independent or otherwise) thereof.
Palestinian Authority
means the Palestinian Authority government of Prime Minister Salam Fayyad and President Mahmoud Abbas, including all branches, ministries, offices, and agencies (independent or otherwise) thereof.
[[72 FR 61518, Oct. 31, 2007]]

§ 597.513   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States and the formation of legal defense funds.

(a) Payments from funds originating outside the United States. (1) Effective December 7, 2010, receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505 to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201 are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Payments from funds originating outside the United States.
(1) Effective December 7, 2010, receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505 to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201 are authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505 are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in this paragraph (a) authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Legal defense funds. Effective December 7, 2010, U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to form legal defense funds from which payments of professional fees and reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505 may be debited provided that:
Legal defense funds.
Effective December 7, 2010, U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to form legal defense funds from which payments of professional fees and reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505 may be debited provided that:
(1) The legal defense fund must be held in a savings or checking account at a financial institution located in the United States;
(2) Prior to debiting the legal defense fund, the U.S. person responsible for establishing the legal defense fund must submit the following information to OFAC: a copy of a letter of engagement or a letter of intent to engage, specifying the services to be performed and signed by the individual to whom such services are to be provided, or, where services are to be provided to an entity, by a legal representative of the entity; the name of the individual or entity responsible for establishing the legal defense fund; the name of the financial institution at which the account for the legal defense fund will be held; a point of contact at the financial institution holding the account for the legal defense fund; and the account name and account number for the legal defense fund. The foregoing information must be accompanied by correspondence referencing this paragraph (b) and is to be submitted to OFAC at OFACReport@treasury.gov with this section number in the subject line.
OFACReport@treasury.gov
with this section number in the subject line.
(3) The legal defense fund may not receive funds from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 597.201 or any other part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute; and
(4) The U.S. person responsible for establishing the legal defense fund must notify the financial institution at which the account for the legal defense fund is held that the account may only be debited to make payments of professional fees and reimburse expenses incurred in connection with the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 597.505.
Note 1 to paragraph (
b
):
Any funds remaining in a legal defense fund account after all payments of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses authorized pursuant to this paragraph have been made or upon termination of the legal services for which payment is authorized pursuant to this paragraph are property in which the person to or on whose behalf the legal services were rendered has an interest and is subject to the prohibitions of this part. Persons in the possession or control of such remaining funds may apply for the unblocking of the funds by following the procedures set forth at § 501.801 of this chapter.
(c) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[75 FR 75909, Dec. 7, 2010, as amended at 89 FR 103650, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 597.514   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 597.515   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78481, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 597.516   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 597.516.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78505, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 597.517   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 597.517.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78505, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 597.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to records and reports, see subpart C of part 501 of this chapter; provided, however, that all of the powers afforded the Director pursuant to the first 3 sentences of § 501.602 of this chapter may also be exercised by the Attorney General in conducting administrative investigations pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 2339B(e); provided further, that the investigative authority of the Director pursuant to § 501.602 of this chapter shall be exercised in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 2339B(e); and provided further, that for purposes of this part no person other than a U.S. financial institution and its directors, officers, employees, and agents shall be required to maintain records or to file any reports or furnish any information under §§ 501.601, 501.602, or 501.603 of this chapter.

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 597.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 2339B(a)(1), as added by Public Law 104-132, 110 Stat. 1250-1253, section 303, which provides that whoever, within the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, knowingly provides material support or resources to a foreign terrorist organization, or attempts or conspires to do so, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.
(b)(1) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 2339B(b), except as authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury, any financial institution that knowingly fails to retain possession of or maintain control over funds in which a foreign terrorist organization or its agent has an interest, or to report the existence of such funds in accordance with these regulations, shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount that is the greater of the amount set forth in 18 U.S.C. 2339B(b) per violation, or twice the amount of which the financial institution was required to retain possession or control.
(2) The civil penalties provided in 18 U.S.C. 2339B(b) are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(3) The applicable maximum civil penalty per violation is $99,703 or twice the amount of which a financial institution was required to retain possession or control.
(c) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(d) Conduct covered by this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 61361, Oct. 28, 2003; 81 FR 43077, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10439, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11880, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27719, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14539, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 597.702   Prepenalty notice.

(a) When required. If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part, and the Director, acting in coordination with the Attorney General, determines that civil penalty proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue to the person concerned a notice of intent to impose a monetary penalty. The prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part, and the Director, acting in coordination with the Attorney General, determines that civil penalty proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue to the person concerned a notice of intent to impose a monetary penalty. The prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
(b) Contents—(1) Facts of violation. The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
Contents
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2) Right to respond. The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to respond within 30 days of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed, or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Right to respond.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to respond within 30 days of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed, or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.

§ 597.703   Response to prepenalty notice.

(a) Time within which to respond. The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to respond in writing to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Time within which to respond.
The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to respond in writing to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(b) Form and contents of written response. The written response need not be in any particular form, but shall contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should respond to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Form and contents of written response.
The written response need not be in any particular form, but shall contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should respond to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or, if imposed, why it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(c) Informal settlement. In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent is not required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Informal settlement.
In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent is not required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 597.704   Penalty notice.

(a) No violation. If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
No violation.
If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
(b) Violation. (1) If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty on the respondent. The issuance of a written notice of the imposition of a monetary penalty shall constitute final agency action.
Violation.
(1) If, after considering any written response to the prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty on the respondent. The issuance of a written notice of the imposition of a monetary penalty shall constitute final agency action.
(2) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent that payment of the assessed penalty must be made within 30 days of the mailing of the penalty notice.
(3) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent of the requirement to furnish respondent's taxpayer identification number pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701 and that the Department intends to use such number for the purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent penalty amount in the event of a failure to pay the penalty imposed.

§ 597.705   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the respondent does not pay the penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the mailing of the written notice of the imposition of the penalty, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 597.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.
[[62 FR 52495, Oct. 8, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 597.802   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action which the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1189 or 18 U.S.C. 2339B, as added by Public Law 104-132, 110 Stat. 1248-1253, sections 302 and 303, may be taken by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 597.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, to licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and to other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 598—FOREIGN NARCOTICS KINGPIN SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
[Source:65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 598.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

(a) This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, including part 536 of this chapter, “Narcotics Trafficking Sanctions Regulations,” with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the provisions of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security contexts may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part.
(b) No license contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 598.201   Applicability of sanctions.

A specially designated narcotics trafficker is subject to any and all sanctions authorized by the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act and implemented in this part. The application of sanctions on any specially designated narcotics trafficker will remain in effect until revoked by the President pursuant to section 804(h)(2) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, waived by the President pursuant to section 804(g)(1) of that Act, or revoked by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 805(e)(1)(A) of that Act.

§ 598.202   Prohibited transactions.

(a) All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that come within the United States, or that are or come within the possession or control of any U.S. person, of a specially designated narcotics trafficker are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in.
Note 1 to paragraph (
a
):
See § 598.314 and the notes to that section for the definition and information about the public listing of specially designated narcotics traffickers and OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List). See paragraph (c) of § 598.314 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
See
§ 598.314 and the notes to that section for the definition and information about the public listing of specially designated narcotics traffickers and OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).
See
paragraph (c) of § 598.314 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
Note 2 to paragraph (
a
):
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section include prohibitions on the following transactions:
(1) The making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Unless authorized by this part or by a specific license expressly referring to this part, any dealing in securities (or evidence thereof) held within the possession or control of a U.S. person and either registered or inscribed in the name of, or known to be held for the benefit of, or issued by, a specially designated narcotics trafficker is prohibited. This prohibition includes the transfer (including the transfer on the books of any issuer or agent thereof), disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of, or the endorsement or guaranty of signatures on, any securities on or after the effective date. This prohibition applies irrespective of the fact that at any time (whether prior to, on, or subsequent to the effective date) the registered or inscribed owner of any such securities may have or might appear to have assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the securities.
(d) The prohibitions in paragraph (a) of this section apply except to the extent provided by regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this part, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date.
[[86 FR 26667, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75968, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 598.203   [Reserved]


§ 598.204   Evasions; attempts; conspiracies.

(a) Any transaction on or after the effective date that has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
[[86 FR 26667, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.205   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or property interests.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, unless the person with whom such property is held or maintained, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, an appropriate license or other authorization issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, this part, and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Property transfers that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property was held or maintained;
(2) The person with whom such property was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed, or if a license did purport to cover the transfer, that such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property was held or maintained filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
Note to paragraph (
d
) of § 598.205:
The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(e) Unless licensed or authorized pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property in which on or since the effective date there existed an interest of a specially designated narcotics trafficker.

§ 598.206   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, subject to § 598.202 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become subject to § 598.202 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become subject to § 598.202 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds subject to this section may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides immediate financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 598.202, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.
[[86 FR 26667, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.207   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 598.202 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 598.202 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.
[[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]]

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 598.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.
[[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 598.202 held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
shall mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 598.202 held in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 598.301:
See § 598.314 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more specially designated narcotics traffickers.
See
§ 598.314 concerning the blocked status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, 50 percent or more by one or more specially designated narcotics traffickers.
[[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.302   Effective date.

The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives of this part, which is December 3, 1999, or, in the case of specially designated narcotics traffickers designated after that date, the earlier of the date on which actual or constructive notice of such designation is received.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives of this part, which is December 3, 1999, or, in the case of specially designated narcotics traffickers designated after that date, the earlier of the date on which actual or constructive notice of such designation is received.

§ 598.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, organization, network, group, or subgroup, or any form of business collaboration.
entity
means a partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, organization, network, group, or subgroup, or any form of business collaboration.

§ 598.304   Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.

The term Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act means the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, Pub. L. 106-120, title 8, 113 Stat. 1606, 1626-1636 (codified at 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)(C)).
Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act
means the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, Pub. L. 106-120, title 8, 113 Stat. 1606, 1626-1636 (codified at 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)(C)).

§ 598.305   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any citizen or national of a foreign state, wherever located, or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state, wherever located, or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States, but does not include a foreign state.
[[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.306   [Reserved]


§ 598.307   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest when used with respect to property (e.g., an interest in property) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest
when used with respect to property (e.g., an interest in property) means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 598.308   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 598.308:
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
[[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.309   Narcotic drug; controlled substance; listed chemical.

The terms narcotic drug, controlled substance, and listed chemical have the meanings given those terms in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
narcotic drug, controlled substance,
and
listed chemical
have the meanings given those terms in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).

§ 598.310   Narcotics trafficking.

The term narcotics trafficking means any illicit activity to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance, or transport narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals, or otherwise endeavor or attempt to do so, or to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others to do so.
narcotics trafficking
means any illicit activity to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance, or transport narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals, or otherwise endeavor or attempt to do so, or to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others to do so.

§ 598.311   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 598.312   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include but are not limited to money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, whether present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include but are not limited to money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, whether present, future, or contingent.

§ 598.313   Significant foreign narcotics trafficker.

The term significant foreign narcotics trafficker means any foreign person that plays a significant role in international narcotics trafficking that the President has determined to be appropriate for sanctions and has publicly identified under section 804(b) or section 804(h)(1) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.
significant foreign narcotics trafficker
means any foreign person that plays a significant role in international narcotics trafficking that the President has determined to be appropriate for sanctions and has publicly identified under section 804(b) or section 804(h)(1) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.
[[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.314   Specially designated narcotics trafficker.

The term specially designated narcotics trafficker means:
specially designated narcotics trafficker
means:
(a) Significant foreign narcotics traffickers; and
(b) Foreign persons designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney General, the Director of Central Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of State, because they are found to be:
(1) Materially assisting in, or providing financial or technological support for or to, or providing goods or services in support of, the international narcotics trafficking activities of a specially designated narcotics trafficker;
(2) Owned, controlled, or directed by, or acting for or on behalf of, a specially designated narcotics trafficker; or
(3) Playing a significant role in international narcotics trafficking; and
(c) Entities owned in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by one or more specially designated narcotics traffickers.
Note 1 to § 598.314:
The names of persons determined to fall within paragraph (a) or (b) of this definition, whose property and interests in property therefore are blocked pursuant to this part, are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[SDNTK].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treasury.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in Appendix A to this chapter. Entities that fall within paragraph (c) of this section are also persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part, regardless of whether they are identified by OFAC or appear on the SDN List.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) with the identifier “[SDNTK].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in Appendix A to this chapter. Entities that fall within paragraph (c) of this section are also persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part, regardless of whether they are identified by OFAC or appear on the SDN List.
Note 2 to § 598.314:
The Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901-1908), in Section 806 (21 U.S.C. 1905), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this part are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-SDNTK].”
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List with the identifier “[BPI-SDNTK].”
Note 3 to § 598.314:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a specially designated narcotics trafficker; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 598.314:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the unblocking of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
[[86 FR 26668, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 75968, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 598.315   [Reserved]


§ 598.316   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation upon the foregoing, the term transfer includes the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order; the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation upon the foregoing, the term
transfer
includes the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order; the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 598.317   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 598.318   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen or national, permanent resident alien, an entity organized under the laws of the United States (including its foreign branches), or any person within the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen or national, permanent resident alien, an entity organized under the laws of the United States (including its foreign branches), or any person within the United States.

§ 598.319   U.S. financial institution.

The term U.S. financial institution means any U.S. entity (including a foreign branch) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, as principal or agent. This terms includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions which are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
U.S. financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including a foreign branch) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, commodity futures or options, as principal or agent. This terms includes but is not limited to depository institutions, banks, savings banks, trust companies, securities brokers and dealers, commodity futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions which are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

§ 598.320   Finance.

The term finance includes engaging in any transaction involving funds, other assets, property, or interest in property, that are derived, obtained, or retained from, directly or indirectly, narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals. This includes the transporting, transmitting, or transferring of any such assets, property, or interests in property that creates the appearance that the funds, assets, or property were legitimately acquired, furthers the illicit activity, conceals or disguises the assets, avoids reporting requirements, or otherwise promotes the carrying on of illicit activity, such as money laundering.
finance
includes engaging in any transaction involving funds, other assets, property, or interest in property, that are derived, obtained, or retained from, directly or indirectly, narcotic drugs, controlled substances, or listed chemicals. This includes the transporting, transmitting, or transferring of any such assets, property, or interests in property that creates the appearance that the funds, assets, or property were legitimately acquired, furthers the illicit activity, conceals or disguises the assets, avoids reporting requirements, or otherwise promotes the carrying on of illicit activity, such as money laundering.
Note 1 to § 598.320:
The definition of finance listed above is specific to this part and not any other parts of Chapter 31. See § 598.101.
finance
listed above is specific to this part and not any other parts of Chapter 31.
See
§ 598.101.
[[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.321   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
[[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]]

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 598.401   Reference to amended sections.

Except as otherwise specified, reference to any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or to any regulation, ruling, order, instruction, direction, or license issued pursuant to this part refers to the same as currently amended.

§ 598.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal suit or proceeding commenced or pending prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 598.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a specially designated narcotics trafficker, the transferred property will no longer be considered property in which that person has or has had an interest. Provided no other specially designated narcotics trafficker has any interest in the transferred property following the transfer, the transferred property will no longer be considered property blocked pursuant to § 598.202.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a specially designated narcotics trafficker, such property shall be deemed to be property in which that person has an interest, and such property is therefore blocked pursuant to § 598.202.

§ 598.404   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. bank or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 598.202 if effected after the effective date.
[[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.405   Transactions incidental to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect to the licensed transaction is also authorized by the license. Except as specifically authorized by the terms of a license, prohibited transactions by specially designated narcotics traffickers and debits to accounts blocked pursuant to § 598.202 are not considered incidental to a licensed transaction and therefore remain prohibited.

§ 598.406   Provision of services.

(a) The prohibitions on transactions contained in § 598.202 apply to services performed in the United States or by U.S. persons, wherever located, including by a foreign branch of an entity located in the United States:
(1) On behalf of or for the benefit of a specially designated narcotics trafficker; or
(2) With respect to property interests of a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(b) For example, U.S. persons may not, except as authorized by or pursuant to this part, provide legal, accounting, financial, brokering, freight forwarding, transportation, public relations, or other services to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
Note 1 to § 598.406:
See §§ 598.507 and 598.513 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
See
§§ 598.507 and 598.513 on licensing policy with regard to the provision of certain legal and emergency medical services.
[[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.407   Offshore transactions involving blocked property.

The prohibitions in § 598.202 on transactions or dealings involving blocked property, as defined in § 598.301, apply to transactions by any U.S. person in a location outside the United States.
[[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.408   Alleged change in ownership or control of an entity designated as a specially designated narcotics trafficker.

(a) A change or alleged change in ownership or control of an entity designated as a specially designated narcotics trafficker shall not be the basis for removal of that entity from the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) unless, upon investigation by the Office of Foreign Control and submission of evidence by the entity, it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control that the transfer to a bona fide purchaser at arm's length, or other means of changing ownership or control, is legitimate and that the entity no longer meets the criteria for designation under § 598.314. Evidence submitted must conclusively demonstrate that all ties with other specially designated narcotics traffickers have been completely severed, and may include, but is not limited to, articles of incorporation; identification of new directors, officers, shareholders, and sources of capital; and contracts evidencing the sale of the entity to its new owners.
(b) Any continuing substantial financial obligations on the part of the new owners to any specially designated narcotics traffickers, including long-term payment plans, leases, or rents, will be considered as evidence of continuing control of the entity by the specially designated narcotics trafficker. Purchase of a designated entity without ongoing substantial financial obligations to a specially designated narcotics trafficker may nonetheless be a basis for subsequent designation of the purchaser, if the transaction is determined materially to assist in or provide financial support for the international narcotics trafficking activities of specially designated narcotics traffickers for purposes of § 598.314(b)(1). For example, any acquisition transaction resulting in a direct cash transfer to or other enrichment of a specially designated narcotics trafficker could lead to designation of the purchaser. Mere change in name of an entity will not be considered as constituting a change of the entity's status.
[[65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 38545, June 30, 2011]]

§ 598.409   Credit extended and cards issued by financial institutions to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.

The prohibition in § 598.202 on dealing in property subject to that section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from performing under any existing credit agreements, including charge cards, debit cards, or other credit facilities issued by a financial institution to a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
[[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.410   Payments from blocked accounts to U.S. exporters and for other obligations prohibited.

No debits may be made to a blocked account to pay obligations to U.S. persons or other persons, including payment for goods or services exported prior to the effective date of the blocking, except as authorized pursuant to this part.

§ 598.411   Charitable contributions.

Unless specifically authorized by OFAC pursuant to this part, no charitable contribution of funds, goods, services, or technology, including contributions to relieve human suffering, such as food, clothing, or medicine, may be made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a specially designated narcotics trafficker. For the purposes of this part, a contribution is made by, to, or for the benefit of, or received from, a specially designated narcotics trafficker if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, such a person; if made by, to, or in the name of, or received from or in the name of, an entity or individual acting for or on behalf of, or owned or controlled by, such a person; or if made in an attempt to violate, to evade, or to avoid the bar on the provision of contributions by, to, or for the benefit of such a person, or the receipt of contributions from such a person.
[[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]]

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 598.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part.
[[65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 598.502   Effect of license.

(a) No license contained in this part, or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control pursuant to this part, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of the license, unless the prior transaction is specifically authorized in such license.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part authorizes any transaction prohibited by any provision of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such provision.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction otherwise prohibited by this part has the effect of removing from the transaction a prohibition or prohibitions contained in this part, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law in or with respect to any property.

§ 598.503   Exclusion from licenses.

The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control reserves the right to exclude any person, property, or transaction from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon all persons receiving actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 598.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a specially designated narcotics trafficker has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may only be made to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note to § 598.504:
Please refer to part 501, subpart C of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 598.206 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 598.505   Investment and reinvestment of certain funds.

Subject to the requirements of § 598.206, U.S. financial institutions are authorized to invest and reinvest assets held in blocked accounts in the name of a specially designated narcotics trafficker, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The assets representing such investments and reinvestments are credited to a blocked account or subaccount that is held in the same name at the same U.S. financial institution, or within the possession or control of a U.S. person, but in no case may funds be transferred outside the United States for this purpose;
(b) The proceeds of such investments and reinvestments are not credited to a blocked account or subaccount under any name or designation that differs from the name or designation of the specific blocked account or subaccount in which such funds or securities were held; and
(c) No immediate financial or economic benefit accrues (e.g., through pledging or other use) to the specially designated narcotics trafficker.

§ 598.506   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges authorized.

(a) U.S. financial institutions are authorized to debit any blocked account with such U.S. financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed to such U.S. financial institution by the owner of such blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges includes but is not limited to charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; minimum balance charges; notary and protest fees; and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
includes but is not limited to charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; minimum balance charges; notary and protest fees; and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 598.507   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to §§ 598.508 and 598.509, which authorize certain types of payments for legal services; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons when named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to specially designated narcotics traffickers, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this paragraph. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this paragraph do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 598.405.
See
§ 598.405.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 598.202(a), is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 598.507:
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds necessary for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses where alternative funding sources are not available.
[[86 FR 26669, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.508   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 598.507(a) to or on behalf of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 598.507(a) to or on behalf of a specially designated narcotics trafficker is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 598.507(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) This paragraph authorizes the blocked person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 598.507(a) are to be provided to make payments for authorized legal services using funds originating outside the United States that were not previously blocked.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten five years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten five years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[86 FR 26670, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 103650, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 598.509   Payment of legal fees and expenses at public expense.

U.S. persons that are attorneys, law firms, or legal services organizations are authorized to receive payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses from public funds for the provision of legal services authorized by § 598.507(a).
[[86 FR 26670, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.510   Certain transactions for maintenance, employment, and related banking services for blocked individuals physically located in the United States.

(a) Individuals who are specially designated narcotics traffickers who are in U.S. custody or incarcerated in jails, prisons, or similar facilities in the United States (“covered individuals”), are authorized to engage in the following transactions within the United States:
(1) Purchasing, making payment for, and receiving goods and services for their maintenance and the maintenance of their spouse or persons who are sharing or who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with them, located in the United States, including food, clothing, housing, medical care, education, transportation, insurance, and utilities;
(2) Obtaining or continuing employment and engaging in all transactions ordinarily incident to such employment, including receipt of salary and benefits;
(3) Establishing accounts with a U.S. financial institution, or a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility, located in the United States, for use in connection with the transactions authorized in paragraph (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and
(4) Receiving and making funds transfers in furtherance of the authorized transactions set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section from unblocked funds originating within or outside the United States, provided that any funds received may not originate from any individual or entity whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute, other than the covered individual or his or her spouse or persons who are sharing or who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with the covered individual.
(b) Any financial institution that has established any account pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, excluding commissary-type accounts with prisons, jails, or other similar facilities, must provide the name and address of the financial institution, the name of the account holder, and the account number to OFAC within 10 business days of the establishment of the account.
(c) This general license does not authorize any funds transfers to any location outside the United States.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
):
A covered individual has an interest in any funds remaining in a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility established pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section after the covered individual is released from custody or incarceration.
Note 2 to paragraph (
c
):
In the case of individuals who are in custody or incarcerated, funds transfers must be authorized by and consistent with the conditions, protocols, and other requirements established by the jail, prison, or other facility.
Note 3 to § 598.510:
The authorization in this section only applies to laws and regulations administered by OFAC and should not be interpreted to excuse compliance with other applicable laws or regulations, including the immigration laws of the United States.
[[86 FR 26670, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.511   Certain transactions for the expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property.

(a) Specially designated narcotics traffickers are authorized to engage in the following transactions:
(1) Making payment for and receiving goods and services for the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 598.202(a); and
(2) Receiving and making funds transfers in furtherance of the authorized transactions set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from unblocked funds originating outside the United States, provided that any funds received may not originate from any individual or entity whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute, other than the specially designated narcotics trafficker(s) who owns the property.
(b)(1) Any person making payment for or receiving goods and services for the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 598.202(a) authorized by paragraph (a)(1) of this section must file a report on the transactions with OFAC within 30 days of the first transaction related to that property. Such reports shall include the following numbered sections and information:
(i) Estimated or actual dollar value of the transaction(s), as determined by the value of the payment, goods, or services;
(ii) A description of the blocked property;
(iii) The parties involved;
(iv) The type and scope of transactions conducted; and
(iv) The dates and duration of the transactions.
(2) The reports, which must reference this section, are to be submitted to OFAC via email to OFACReport@treasury.gov.
OFACReport@treasury.gov
.
[[86 FR 26671, May 17, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

§ 598.512   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.
[[86 FR 26671, May 17, 2021]]

§ 598.513   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.
[[87 FR 78482, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 598.514   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing;
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies; and
(5) The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
(b) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
[[87 FR 78482, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 598.515   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a specially designated narcotics trafficker.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a specially designated narcotics trafficker, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 598.515.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78506, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 598.516   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual who is a specially designated narcotics trafficker are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 598.516.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78506, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 598.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties


§ 598.701   Penalties.

(a) Attention is directed to section 807 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, which is applicable to violations of the provisions of any license, rule, or regulation issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under that Act. Section 807 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, as adjusted pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note), provides that:
(1) Whoever willfully violates the provisions of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, or any license, rule, or regulation issued pursuant to that Act, or willfully neglects or refuses to comply with any order of the President issued under that Act, shall be imprisoned for not more than 10 years, fined in the amount provided in title 18, United States Code, or both, or, in the case of an entity, fined not more than $10,000,000;
(2) Any officer, director, or agent of any entity who knowingly participates in a violation of the provisions of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 years, fined not more than $5,000,000, or both;
(3) A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in section 807 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1901-1908) per violation may be imposed by the Secretary of the Treasury on any person who violates any license, order, rule, or regulation issued in compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act.
(4) The maximum civil penalty is $1,876,699 per violation.
(b) Adjustments to penalty amounts. (1) The current civil penalty cap may be adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
Adjustments to penalty amounts.
(1) The current civil penalty cap may be adjusted for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).
(2) The criminal penalties provided in this part are subject to increase pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(c) Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(d) Violations of this part may also be subject to relevant provisions of other applicable laws.
[[65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 61361, Oct. 28, 2003; 81 FR 43077, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 10439, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11881, Mar. 19, 2018; 84 FR 27719, June 14, 2019; 85 FR 19888, Apr. 9, 2020; 86 FR 14539, Mar. 17, 2021; 87 FR 7373, Feb. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2234, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2144, Jan. 12, 2024; 90 FR 3693, Jan. 15, 2025]]

§ 598.702   Prepenalty notice.

(a) When required. If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue to the person concerned a notice of intent to impose a monetary penalty. This prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
When required.
If the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control has reasonable cause to believe that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction, or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, and the Director determines that further proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue to the person concerned a notice of intent to impose a monetary penalty. This prepenalty notice shall be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to this matter.
(b) Contents—(1) Facts of violation. The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
Contents
—(1)
Facts of violation.
The prepenalty notice shall describe the violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.
(2) Right to respond. The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to make a written presentation within 30 days of the date of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Right to respond.
The prepenalty notice also shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to make a written presentation within 30 days of the date of mailing of the notice as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.

§ 598.703   Response to prepenalty notice; informal settlement.

(a) Deadline for response. The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to make a written response to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Deadline for response.
The respondent shall have 30 days from the date of mailing of the prepenalty notice to make a written response to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
(b) Form and contents of response. The written response need not be in any particular form, but must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should contain responses to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
Form and contents of response.
The written response need not be in any particular form, but must contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the prepenalty notice. It should contain responses to the allegations in the prepenalty notice and set forth the reasons why the respondent believes the penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, it should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(c) Informal settlement. In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice issued pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the claim proposed in the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent will not be required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Informal settlement.
In addition or as an alternative to a written response to a prepenalty notice issued pursuant to this section, the respondent or respondent's representative may contact the Office of Foreign Assets Control as advised in the prepenalty notice to propose the settlement of allegations contained in the prepenalty notice and related matters. In the event of settlement at the prepenalty stage, the claim proposed in the prepenalty notice will be withdrawn, the respondent will not be required to take a written position on allegations contained in the prepenalty notice, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control will make no final determination as to whether a violation occurred. The amount accepted in settlement of allegations in a prepenalty notice may vary from the civil penalty that might finally be imposed in the event of a formal determination of violation. In the event no settlement is reached, the 30-day period specified in paragraph (a) of this section for written response to the prepenalty notice remains in effect unless additional time is granted by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 598.704   Penalty imposition or withdrawal.

(a) No violation. If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
No violation.
If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was no violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall notify the respondent in writing of that determination and that no monetary penalty will be imposed.
(b) Violation. If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty to the respondent. The issuance of a written notice of the imposition of a monetary penalty shall constitute final agency action.
Violation.
If, after considering any response to a prepenalty notice and any relevant facts, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control determines that there was a violation by the respondent named in the prepenalty notice, the Director promptly shall issue a written notice of the imposition of the monetary penalty to the respondent. The issuance of a written notice of the imposition of a monetary penalty shall constitute final agency action.
(1) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent that payment of the assessed penalty must be made within 30 days of the date of mailing of the penalty notice.
(2) The penalty notice shall inform the respondent of the requirement to furnish the respondent's taxpayer identification number pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 7701 and that such number will be used for purposes of collecting and reporting on any delinquent penalty amount.

§ 598.705   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

In the event that the respondent does not pay a penalty imposed pursuant to this part or make payment arrangements acceptable to the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the date of mailing of a penalty notice, the matter may be referred for administrative collection measures by the Department of the Treasury or to the United States Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty in a civil suit in a Federal district court.

§ 598.706   Judicial review of civil penalty.

A civil penalty imposed pursuant to this subpart G is subject to judicial review only to the extent provided in 5 U.S.C. 702.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 598.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), see part 501, subpart E of this chapter.
[[65 FR 41336, July 5, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 53660, Sept. 11, 2003]]

§ 598.802   Availability of information pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.

Any record or information obtained or created in the implementation of this part is not subject to disclosure under section 552(a)(3) of the Freedom of Information Act. Information required to be made available to the public under other provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) will be made available in accordance with § 501.805(a) of this chapter.

§ 598.803   Delegation by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, the Presidential Memorandum of May 15, 2015: Delegation of Functions Under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, or the Presidential Memorandum of May 31, 2013: Delegation of Functions Under Subsection 804(h)(2)(A) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act may be taken by the Director of the OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.
[[86 FR 26671, May 17, 2021]]

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 598.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures (including those pursuant to statements of licensing policy), and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

PART 599—ILLICIT DRUG TRADE SANCTIONS REGULATIONS

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 21 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq., 1701 et seq.; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14059, 86 FR 71549, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 715.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 21 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 321(b); 50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
1701
et seq.;
Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); E.O. 14059, 86 FR 71549, 3 CFR, 2021 Comp., p. 715.
[Source:87 FR 77712, Dec. 20, 2022, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
87 FR 77712, Dec. 20, 2022, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Relation of This Part to Other Laws and Regulations


§ 599.101   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this chapter, with the exception of part 501 of this chapter, the recordkeeping and reporting requirements and license application and other procedures of which apply to this part. Actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of similar language among the parts of this chapter. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to those other parts authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part. No license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
Note 1 to § 599.101.
This part has been published in abbreviated form for the purpose of providing immediate guidance to the public. OFAC intends to supplement this part with a more comprehensive set of regulations, which may include additional interpretive guidance and definitions, general licenses, and other regulatory provisions.

Subpart B—Prohibitions


§ 599.201   Prohibited transactions.

All transactions prohibited pursuant to E.O. 14059 of December 15, 2021, or any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared in E.O. 14059 are prohibited pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 599.201.
The names of persons designated or identified as blocked pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.]-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/sdn. Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter. See § 599.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Federal Register
and incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) using the following identifier formulation: “[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.]-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].” The SDN List is accessible through the following page on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/sdn.
Additional information pertaining to the SDN List can be found in appendix A to this chapter.
See
§ 599.406 concerning entities that may not be listed on the SDN List but whose property and interests in property are nevertheless blocked pursuant to this section.
Note 2 to § 599.201.
The International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the Federal Register and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: “[BPI-[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.]-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
et seq.
), in Section 203 (50 U.S.C. 1702), authorizes the blocking of property and interests in property of a person during the pendency of an investigation. Except as described in note 3 to this section, the names of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation pursuant to this section are published in the
Federal Register
and incorporated into the SDN List using the following identifier formulation: “[BPI-[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.]-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked pending investigation]].”
Note 3 to § 599.201:
In certain cases, OFAC may issue an order to: identify as blocked specific property or interests in property of a person designated or otherwise blocked pursuant to this section; block specific property or interests in property of a person pending investigation; or block or impose other prohibitions with respect to specific property or interests in property less than full blocking sanctions. Notice of such orders will be provided: by publication in the Federal Register; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Federal Register
; in writing to persons OFAC may assess to have an interest in the property; or by issuing an order or directive in writing to financial institutions or other transaction intermediaries, and requiring the recipient of the order or directive to promptly disclose it to affected persons with whom the recipient maintains direct commercial relationships. Inquiries regarding any such order should be directed to OFAC's Compliance Division at 202-622-2490 or
https://ofac.treasury.gov/contact-ofac.
Note 4 to § 599.201.
The names of persons on whom non-blocking sanctions implemented by the Department of the Treasury are imposed pursuant to this section will be incorporated into a data file containing OFAC's Consolidated Non-SDN data and are provided in a human readable format on OFAC's Non-SDN Menu-Based Sanctions List (NS-MBS List) on the following page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/consolidated-sanctions-list-non-sdn-lists. These listings are published in the Federal Register and include specific information on the non-blocking sanctions imposed on such persons. However, for any persons on whom blocking and non-blocking sanctions are imposed pursuant to this section, such persons' names are instead incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].”
www.treas.gov/consolidated-sanctions-list-non-sdn-lists.
These listings are published in the
Federal Register
and include specific information on the non-blocking sanctions imposed on such persons. However, for any persons on whom blocking and non-blocking sanctions are imposed pursuant to this section, such persons' names are instead incorporated into OFAC's SDN List using the identifier “[ILLICIT-DRUGS-E.O.-E.O.[E.O. number pursuant to which the person's property and interests in property are blocked]].”
Note 5 to § 599.201:
Subpart E of part 501 of this chapter describes the procedures to be followed for the release of property and interests in property blocked pursuant to this section, including funds blocked due to mistaken identity or typographical or similar errors, and for administrative reconsideration of one's status as a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this section.
[[87 FR 77712, Dec. 20, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 75968, Sept. 17, 2024]]

§ 599.202   Effect of transfers violating the provisions of this part.

(a) Any transfer after the effective date that is in violation of any provision of this part or of any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part, and that involves any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 599.201, is null and void and shall not be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any interest in or right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to such property or interest in property.
(b) No transfer before the effective date shall be the basis for the assertion or recognition of any right, remedy, power, or privilege with respect to, or any interest in, any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 599.201, unless the person who holds or maintains such property, prior to that date, had written notice of the transfer or by any written evidence had recognized such transfer.
(c) Unless otherwise provided, a license or other authorization issued by OFAC before, during, or after a transfer shall validate such transfer or make it enforceable to the same extent that it would be valid or enforceable but for the provisions of this part and any regulation, order, directive, ruling, instruction, or license issued pursuant to this part.
(d) Transfers of property that otherwise would be null and void or unenforceable by virtue of the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be null and void or unenforceable as to any person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only) in cases in which such person is able to establish to the satisfaction of OFAC each of the following:
(1) Such transfer did not represent a willful violation of the provisions of this part by the person with whom such property is or was held or maintained (and as to such person only);
(2) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained did not have reasonable cause to know or suspect, in view of all the facts and circumstances known or available to such person, that such transfer required a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part and was not so licensed or authorized, or, if a license or authorization did purport to cover the transfer, that such license or authorization had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained; and
(3) The person with whom such property is or was held or maintained filed with OFAC a report setting forth in full the circumstances relating to such transfer promptly upon discovery that:
(i) Such transfer was in violation of the provisions of this part or any regulation, ruling, instruction, license, or other directive or authorization issued pursuant to this part;
(ii) Such transfer was not licensed or authorized by OFAC; or
(iii) If a license did purport to cover the transfer, such license had been obtained by misrepresentation of a third party or withholding of material facts or was otherwise fraudulently obtained.
(e) The filing of a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be deemed evidence that the terms of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section have been satisfied.
(f) Unless licensed pursuant to this part, any attachment, judgment, decree, lien, execution, garnishment, or other judicial process is null and void with respect to any property or interest in property blocked pursuant to § 599.201.

§ 599.203   Holding of funds in interest-bearing accounts; investment and reinvestment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, or as otherwise directed or authorized by OFAC, any U.S. person holding funds, such as currency, bank deposits, or liquidated financial obligations, blocked pursuant to § 599.201 shall hold or place such funds in a blocked interest-bearing account located in the United States.
(b)(1) For the purposes of this section, the term blocked interest-bearing account means a blocked account:
blocked interest-bearing account
means a blocked account:
(i) In a federally insured U.S. bank, thrift institution, or credit union, provided the funds are earning interest at rates that are commercially reasonable; or
(ii) With a broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
et seq.
), provided the funds are invested in a money market fund or in U.S. Treasury bills.
(2) Funds held or placed in a blocked account pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may not be invested in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rate is commercially reasonable if it is the rate currently offered to other depositors on deposits or instruments of comparable size and maturity.
(d) For the purposes of this section, if interest is credited to a separate blocked account or subaccount, the name of the account party on each account must be the same.
(e) Blocked funds held in instruments the maturity of which exceeds 180 days at the time the funds become blocked pursuant to § 599.201 may continue to be held until maturity in the original instrument, provided any interest, earnings, or other proceeds derived therefrom are paid into a blocked interest-bearing account in accordance with paragraph (a) or (f) of this section.
(f) Blocked funds held in accounts or instruments outside the United States at the time the funds become blocked pursuant to § 599.201 may continue to be held in the same type of accounts or instruments, provided the funds earn interest at rates that are commercially reasonable.
(g) This section does not create an affirmative obligation for the holder of blocked tangible property, such as real or personal property, or of other blocked property, such as debt or equity securities, to sell or liquidate such property. However, OFAC may issue licenses permitting or directing such sales or liquidation in appropriate cases.
(h) Funds blocked pursuant to § 599.201 may not be held, invested, or reinvested in a manner that provides financial or economic benefit or access to any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, nor may their holder cooperate in or facilitate the pledging or other attempted use as collateral of blocked funds or other assets.

§ 599.204   Expenses of maintaining blocked tangible property; liquidation of blocked property.

(a) Except as otherwise authorized, and notwithstanding the existence of any rights or obligations conferred or imposed by any international agreement or contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date, all expenses incident to the maintenance of tangible property blocked pursuant to § 599.201 shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of such property, which expenses shall not be met from blocked funds.
(b) Property blocked pursuant to § 599.201 may, in the discretion of OFAC, be sold or liquidated and the net proceeds placed in a blocked interest-bearing account in the name of the owner of the property.

§ 599.205   Exempt transactions.

Personal communications. The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.
Personal communications.
The prohibitions contained in this part do not apply to any postal, telegraphic, telephonic, or other personal communication that does not involve the transfer of anything of value.

Subpart C—General Definitions


§ 599.300   Applicability of definitions.

The definitions in this subpart apply throughout the entire part.

§ 599.301   Blocked account; blocked property.

The terms blocked account and blocked property mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 599.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
blocked account
and
blocked property
mean any account or property subject to the prohibitions in § 599.201 held in the name of a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, or in which such person has an interest, and with respect to which payments, transfers, exportations, withdrawals, or other dealings may not be made or effected except pursuant to a license or other authorization from OFAC expressly authorizing such action.
Note 1 to § 599.301.
See § 599.406 concerning the status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201.
See
§ 599.406 concerning the status of property and interests in property of an entity that is directly or indirectly owned, whether individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201.

§ 599.302   Effective date.

(a) The term effective date refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 or on whom other sanctions are imposed, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked or that other sanctions are imposed on such person.
effective date
refers to the effective date of the applicable prohibitions and directives contained in this part, and with respect to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 or on whom other sanctions are imposed, the earlier of the date of actual or constructive notice that such person's property and interests in property are blocked or that other sanctions are imposed on such person.
(b) For the purposes of this section, constructive notice is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property or imposition of other sanctions is published in the Federal Register.
constructive notice
is the date that a notice of the blocking of the relevant person's property and interests in property or imposition of other sanctions is published in the
Federal Register
.

§ 599.303   Entity.

The term entity means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
entity
means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.

§ 599.304   Financial, material, or technological support.

The term financial, material, or technological support means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.
financial, material, or technological support
means any property, tangible or intangible, including currency, financial instruments, securities, or any other transmission of value; weapons or related materiel; chemical or biological agents; explosives; false documentation or identification; communications equipment; computers; electronic or other devices or equipment; technologies; lodging; safe houses; facilities; vehicles or other means of transportation; or goods. “Technologies” as used in this section means specific information necessary for the development, production, or use of a product, including related technical data such as blueprints, plans, diagrams, models, formulae, tables, engineering designs and specifications, manuals, or other recorded instructions.

§ 599.305   Financial institution.

The term financial institution includes a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(l) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(l))), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7))); a credit union; a securities firm, including a broker or dealer; an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and any other company that provides financial services.
financial institution
includes a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(l) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(l))), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7))); a credit union; a securities firm, including a broker or dealer; an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and any other company that provides financial services.

§ 599.306   Foreign person.

The term foreign person means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States, provided such individual does not reside in the United States) or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States.
foreign person
means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States, provided such individual does not reside in the United States) or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States.

§ 599.307   [Reserved]


§ 599.308   Interest.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term interest, when used with respect to property (e.g., “an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.
interest,
when used with respect to property (
e.g.,
“an interest in property”), means an interest of any nature whatsoever, direct or indirect.

§ 599.309   Knowingly; knows.

The term knowingly or knows with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
knowingly
or
knows
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

§ 599.310   Licenses; general and specific.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the term license means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
license
means any license or authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part.
(b) The term general license means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
general license
means any license or authorization the terms of which are set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
(c) The term specific license means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
specific license
means any license or authorization issued pursuant to this part but not set forth in subpart E of this part or made available on OFAC's website:
www.treas.gov/ofac.
Note 1 to § 599.310.
See § 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.
See
§ 501.801 of this chapter on licensing procedures.

§ 599.311   Means of production.

The term means of production includes any activities or transactions involving any equipment, chemical, product, or material that may be used, directly or indirectly, in the manufacture of illicit drugs or precursor chemicals.
means of production
includes any activities or transactions involving any equipment, chemical, product, or material that may be used, directly or indirectly, in the manufacture of illicit drugs or precursor chemicals.

§ 599.312   OFAC.

The term OFAC means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
means the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control.

§ 599.313   Person.

The term person means an individual or entity.
person
means an individual or entity.

§ 599.314   Proliferation of illicit drugs.

The term proliferation of illicit drugs means any illicit activity to produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, or knowingly finance or transport: narcotic drugs, controlled substances, listed chemicals, or controlled substance analogues, as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
proliferation of illicit drugs
means any illicit activity to produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, or knowingly finance or transport: narcotic drugs, controlled substances, listed chemicals, or controlled substance analogues, as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).

§ 599.315   Property; property interest.

The terms property and property interest include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.
property
and
property interest
include money, checks, drafts, bullion, bank deposits, savings accounts, debts, indebtedness, obligations, notes, guarantees, debentures, stocks, bonds, coupons, any other financial instruments, bankers acceptances, mortgages, pledges, liens or other rights in the nature of security, warehouse receipts, bills of lading, trust receipts, bills of sale, any other evidences of title, ownership, or indebtedness, letters of credit and any documents relating to any rights or obligations thereunder, powers of attorney, goods, wares, merchandise, chattels, stocks on hand, ships, goods on ships, real estate mortgages, deeds of trust, vendors' sales agreements, land contracts, leaseholds, ground rents, real estate and any other interest therein, options, negotiable instruments, trade acceptances, royalties, book accounts, accounts payable, judgments, patents, trademarks or copyrights, insurance policies, safe deposit boxes and their contents, annuities, pooling agreements, services of any nature whatsoever, contracts of any nature whatsoever, and any other property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or interest or interests therein, present, future, or contingent.

§ 599.316   Transfer.

The term transfer means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.
transfer
means any actual or purported act or transaction, whether or not evidenced by writing, and whether or not done or performed within the United States, the purpose, intent, or effect of which is to create, surrender, release, convey, transfer, or alter, directly or indirectly, any right, remedy, power, privilege, or interest with respect to any property. Without limitation on the foregoing, it shall include the making, execution, or delivery of any assignment, power, conveyance, check, declaration, deed, deed of trust, power of attorney, power of appointment, bill of sale, mortgage, receipt, agreement, contract, certificate, gift, sale, affidavit, or statement; the making of any payment; the setting off of any obligation or credit; the appointment of any agent, trustee, or fiduciary; the creation or transfer of any lien; the issuance, docketing, filing, or levy of or under any judgment, decree, attachment, injunction, execution, or other judicial or administrative process or order, or the service of any garnishment; the acquisition of any interest of any nature whatsoever by reason of a judgment or decree of any foreign country; the fulfillment of any condition; the exercise of any power of appointment, power of attorney, or other power; or the acquisition, disposition, transportation, importation, exportation, or withdrawal of any security.

§ 599.317   United States.

The term United States means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.
United States
means the United States, its territories and possessions, and all areas under the jurisdiction or authority thereof.

§ 599.318   United States person; U.S. person.

The term United States person or U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
United States person
or
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

§ 599.319   United States financial institution.

The term United States financial institution means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.
United States financial institution
means any U.S. entity (including its foreign branches) that is engaged in the business of accepting deposits, making, granting, transferring, holding, or brokering loans or credits, or purchasing or selling foreign exchange, securities, futures or options, or procuring purchasers and sellers thereof, as principal or agent. It includes depository institutions, banks, savings banks, money services businesses, operators of credit card systems, trust companies, insurance companies, securities brokers and dealers, futures and options brokers and dealers, forward contract and foreign exchange merchants, securities and commodities exchanges, clearing corporations, investment companies, employee benefit plans, dealers in precious metals, stones, or jewels, and U.S. holding companies, U.S. affiliates, or U.S. subsidiaries of any of the foregoing. This term includes those branches, offices, and agencies of foreign financial institutions that are located in the United States, but not such institutions' foreign branches, offices, or agencies.

Subpart D—Interpretations


§ 599.401   [Reserved]


§ 599.402   Effect of amendment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part or chapter or of any order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license issued by OFAC does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such order, regulation, ruling, instruction, or license continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 599.403   Termination and acquisition of an interest in blocked property.

(a) Whenever a transaction licensed or authorized by or pursuant to this part results in the transfer of property (including any property interest) away from a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, such property shall no longer be deemed to be property blocked pursuant to § 599.201, unless there exists in the property another interest that is blocked pursuant to § 599.201, the transfer of which has not been effected pursuant to license or other authorization.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided in a license or authorization issued pursuant to this part, if property (including any property interest) is transferred or attempted to be transferred to a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, such property shall be deemed to be property in which such person has an interest and therefore blocked.

§ 599.404   Transactions ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction.

Any transaction ordinarily incident to a licensed transaction and necessary to give effect thereto is also authorized, except:
(a) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, by or with a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201; or
(b) An ordinarily incident transaction, not explicitly authorized within the terms of the license, involving a debit to a blocked account or a transfer of blocked property.

§ 599.405   Setoffs prohibited.

A setoff against blocked property (including a blocked account), whether by a U.S. financial institution or other U.S. person, is a prohibited transfer under § 599.201 if effected after the effective date.

§ 599.406   Entities owned by one or more persons whose property and interests in property are blocked.

Persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 have an interest in all property and interests in property of an entity in which such persons directly or indirectly own, whether individually or in the aggregate, a 50 percent or greater interest. The property and interests in property of such an entity, therefore, are blocked, and such an entity is a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, regardless of whether the name of the entity is incorporated into OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List).

Subpart E—Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy


§ 599.501   General and specific licensing procedures.

For provisions relating to licensing procedures, see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter. Licensing actions taken pursuant to part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered actions taken pursuant to this part. General licenses and statements of licensing policy relating to this part also may be available through the Counter Narcotics Trafficking sanctions page on OFAC's website: www.treas.gov/ofac.
www.treas.gov/ofac.

§ 599.502   Effect of license or other authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part, or otherwise issued by OFAC, authorizes or validates any transaction effected prior to the issuance of such license or other authorization, unless specifically provided in such license or authorization.
(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes any transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by OFAC and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any other part of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license specifically refers to such part.
(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizing any transaction prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition contained in this part from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property that would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to supersede the requirements established under any other provision of law or to relieve a person from any requirement to obtain a license or other authorization from another department or agency of the U.S. Government in compliance with applicable laws and regulations subject to the jurisdiction of that department or agency. For example, exports of goods, services, or technical data that are not prohibited by this part or that do not require a license by OFAC nevertheless may require authorization by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, or other agencies of the U.S. Government.
(e) No license or other authorization contained in or issued pursuant to this part authorizes transfers of or payments from blocked property or debits to blocked accounts unless the license or other authorization explicitly authorizes the transfer of or payment from blocked property or the debit to a blocked account.
(f) Any payment relating to a transaction authorized in or pursuant to this part that is routed through the U.S. financial system should reference the relevant OFAC general or specific license authorizing the payment to avoid the blocking or rejection of the transfer.

§ 599.503   Exclusion from licenses.

OFAC reserves the right to exclude any person, property, transaction, or class thereof from the operation of any license or from the privileges conferred by any license. OFAC also reserves the right to restrict the applicability of any license to particular persons, property, transactions, or classes thereof. Such actions are binding upon actual or constructive notice of the exclusions or restrictions.

§ 599.504   Payments and transfers to blocked accounts in U.S. financial institutions.

Any payment of funds or transfer of credit in which a person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 has any interest that comes within the possession or control of a U.S. financial institution must be blocked in an account on the books of that financial institution. A transfer of funds or credit by a U.S. financial institution between blocked accounts in its branches or offices is authorized, provided that no transfer is made from an account within the United States to an account held outside the United States, and further provided that a transfer from a blocked account may be made only to another blocked account held in the same name.
Note 1 to § 599.504.
See § 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers. See also § 599.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.
See
§ 501.603 of this chapter for mandatory reporting requirements regarding financial transfers.
See also
§ 599.203 concerning the obligation to hold blocked funds in interest-bearing accounts.

§ 599.505   Entries in certain accounts for normal service charges.

(a) A U.S. financial institution is authorized to debit any blocked account held at that financial institution in payment or reimbursement for normal service charges owed it by the owner of that blocked account.
(b) As used in this section, the term normal service charges shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.
normal service charges
shall include charges in payment or reimbursement for interest due; cable, telegraph, internet, or telephone charges; postage costs; custody fees; small adjustment charges to correct bookkeeping errors; and, but not by way of limitation, minimum balance charges, notary and protest fees, and charges for reference books, photocopies, credit reports, transcripts of statements, registered mail, insurance, stationery and supplies, and other similar items.

§ 599.506   Provision of certain legal services.

(a) The provision of the following legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 is authorized, provided that any receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses must be authorized pursuant to § 599.507, which authorizes certain payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States; via specific license; or otherwise pursuant to this part:
(1) Provision of legal advice and counseling on the requirements of and compliance with the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, provided that such advice and counseling are not provided to facilitate transactions in violation of this part;
(2) Representation of persons named as defendants in or otherwise made parties to legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(3) Initiation and conduct of legal, arbitration, or administrative proceedings before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency;
(4) Representation of persons before any U.S. federal, state, or local court or agency with respect to the imposition, administration, or enforcement of U.S. sanctions against such persons; and
(5) Provision of legal services in any other context in which prevailing U.S. law requires access to legal counsel at public expense.
(b) The provision of any other legal services to or on behalf of persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, not otherwise authorized in this part, requires the issuance of a specific license.
(c) U.S. persons do not need to obtain specific authorization to provide related services, such as making filings and providing other administrative services, that are ordinarily incident to the provision of services authorized by this section. Additionally, U.S. persons who provide services authorized by this section do not need to obtain specific authorization to contract for related services that are ordinarily incident to the provision of those legal services, such as those provided by private investigators or expert witnesses, or to pay for such services. See § 599.404.
See
§ 599.404.
(d) Entry into a settlement agreement or the enforcement of any lien, judgment, arbitral award, decree, or other order through execution, garnishment, or other judicial process purporting to transfer or otherwise alter or affect property or interests in property blocked pursuant to § 599.201 is prohibited unless licensed pursuant to this part.
Note 1 to § 599.506.
Pursuant to part 501, subpart E, of this chapter, U.S. persons seeking administrative reconsideration or judicial review of their designation or the blocking of their property and interests in property may apply for a specific license from OFAC to authorize the release of certain blocked funds for the payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of such legal services where alternative funding sources are not available.

§ 599.507   Payments for legal services from funds originating outside the United States.

(a) Professional fees and incurred expenses. (1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 599.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
Professional fees and incurred expenses.
(1) Receipt of payment of professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses for the provision of legal services authorized pursuant to § 599.506(a) to or on behalf of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 is authorized from funds originating outside the United States, provided that the funds do not originate from:
(i) A source within the United States;
(ii) Any source, wherever located, within the possession or control of a U.S. person; or
(iii) Any individual or entity, other than the person on whose behalf the legal services authorized pursuant to § 599.506(a) are to be provided, whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute.
(2) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes payments for legal services using funds in which any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201, any other part of this chapter, or any Executive order or statute has an interest.
(b) Records. Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
Records.
Consistent with §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter, U.S. persons who receive payments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must retain for ten years from the date of the relevant payment, and furnish to OFAC on demand, a record that specifies the following for each payment:
(1) The individual or entity from whom the funds originated and the amount of funds received; and
(2) If applicable:
(i) The names of any individuals or entities providing related services to the U.S. person receiving payment in connection with authorized legal services, such as private investigators or expert witnesses;
(ii) A general description of the services provided; and
(iii) The amount of funds paid in connection with such services.
[[87 FR 77712, Dec. 20, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 103651, Dec. 19, 2024]]

§ 599.508   Emergency medical services.

The provision and receipt of nonscheduled emergency medical services that are prohibited by this part are authorized.

§ 599.509   Official business of the United States Government.

All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized.

§ 599.510   Official business of certain international organizations and entities.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are for the conduct of the official business of the following entities by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof are authorized:
(1) The United Nations, including its Programmes, Funds, and Other Entities and Bodies, as well as its Specialized Agencies and Related Organizations;
(2) The International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA);
(3) The African Development Bank Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank Group (IDB Group), including any fund entity administered or established by any of the foregoing; and
(4) The International Committee of the Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.

§ 599.511   Certain transactions for maintenance, employment, and related banking services for blocked individuals physically located in the United States.

(a) Individuals whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 599.201 who are in U.S. custody or incarcerated in jails, prisons, or similar facilities in the United States (“covered individuals”), are authorized to engage in the following transactions within the United States:
(1) Purchasing, making payment for, and receiving goods and services for their maintenance and the maintenance of their spouse or persons who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with them, located in the United States, including food, clothing, housing, medical care, education, transportation, insurance, and utilities;
(2) Obtaining or continuing employment and engaging in all transactions ordinarily incident to such employment, including receipt of salary and benefits;
(3) Establishing accounts with a U.S. financial institution, or a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility, located in the United States, for use in connection with the transactions authorized in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and
(4) Receiving and making funds transfers in furtherance of the authorized transactions set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section from unblocked funds originating within or outside the United States, provided that any funds received may not originate from any individual or entity whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to any part of this chapter or any Executive order or statute, other than the covered individual or his or her spouse or persons who would ordinarily share a common dwelling as a family with the covered individual.
(b) Any financial institution that has established any account pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, excluding commissary-type accounts with prisons, jails, or other similar facilities, must provide the name and address of the financial institution, the name of the account holder, and the account number to OFAC within 10 business days of the establishment of the account.
(c) This general license does not authorize any funds transfers to any location outside the United States.
Note 1 to paragraph (
c
).
A covered individual has an interest in any funds remaining in a commissary-type account with a prison, jail, or other similar facility established pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section after the covered individual is released from custody or incarceration.
Note 2 to paragraph (
c
).
In the case of individuals who are in custody or incarcerated, funds transfers must be authorized by and consistent with the conditions, protocols, and other requirements established by the jail, prison, or other facility.
Note 3 to § 599.511.
The authorization in this section only applies to laws and regulations administered by OFAC and should not be interpreted to excuse compliance with other applicable laws or regulations, including the immigration laws of the United States.

§ 599.512   Authorizing Certain Transactions in Support of Nongovernmental Organizations' Activities.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all transactions prohibited by this part that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section by a nongovernmental organization are authorized, provided that the nongovernmental organization is not a person whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part.
(b) The activities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section are non-commercial activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population that fall into one of the following categories:
(1) Activities to support humanitarian projects to meet basic human needs, including disaster, drought, or flood relief; food, nutrition, or medicine distribution; the provision of health services; assistance for vulnerable or displaced populations, including individuals with disabilities and the elderly; and environmental programs;
(2) Activities to support democracy building, including activities to support rule of law, citizen participation, government accountability and transparency, human rights and fundamental freedoms, access to information, and civil society development projects;
(3) Activities to support education, including combating illiteracy, increasing access to education, international exchanges, and assisting education reform projects;
(4) Activities to support non-commercial development projects directly benefiting civilians, including those related to health, food security, and water and sanitation;
(5) Activities to support environmental and natural resource protection, including the preservation and protection of threatened or endangered species, responsible and transparent management of natural resources, and the remediation of pollution or other environmental damage; and
(6) Activities to support disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs and peacebuilding, conflict prevention, and conflict resolution programs.
(c) This section does not authorize funds transfers initiated or processed with knowledge or reason to know that the intended beneficiary of such transfers is a person blocked pursuant to this part, other than for the purpose of effecting the payment of taxes, fees, or import duties, or the purchase or receipt of permits, licenses, or public utility services.
(d) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize nongovernmental or other entities to engage in other activities designed to directly benefit the civilian population, including support for the removal of landmines and economic development projects directly benefiting the civilian population.
Note 1 to § 599.512.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78506, Dec. 21, 2022]]

§ 599.513   Transactions related to the provision of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components, or software updates for personal, non-commercial use.

(a) All transactions prohibited by this part that are related to the provision, directly or indirectly, of agricultural commodities, medicine, medical devices, replacement parts and components for medical devices, or software updates for medical devices to an individual whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this part are authorized, provided the items are in quantities consistent with personal, non-commercial use.
(b) For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices are defined as follows:
(1) Agricultural commodities. For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
Agricultural commodities.
For the purposes of this section, agricultural commodities are:
(i) Products that fall within the term “agricultural commodity” as defined in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602); and
(ii) That are intended for ultimate use as:
(A) Food for humans (including raw, processed, and packaged foods; live animals; vitamins and minerals; food additives or supplements; and bottled drinking water) or animals (including animal feeds);
(B) Seeds for food crops;
(C) Fertilizers or organic fertilizers; or
(D) Reproductive materials (such as live animals, fertilized eggs, embryos, and semen) for the production of food animals.
(2) Medicine. For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medicine.
For the purposes of this section, medicine is an item that falls within the definition of the term “drug” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
(3) Medical devices. For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Medical devices.
For the purposes of this section, a medical device is an item that falls within the definition of “device” in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
Note 1 to § 599.513.
This section does not relieve any person authorized thereunder from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
[[87 FR 78507, Dec. 21, 2022]]

Subpart F—Reports


§ 599.601   Records and reports.

For provisions relating to required records and reports, see part 501, subpart C, of this chapter. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements imposed by part 501 of this chapter with respect to the prohibitions contained in this part are considered requirements arising pursuant to this part.

Subpart G—Penalties and Findings of Violation


§ 599.701   Penalties and Findings of Violation.

(a) The penalties available under section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
et seq.
) (IEEPA), as adjusted annually pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note) or, in the case of criminal violations, as adjusted pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571, are applicable to violations of the provisions of this part.
(b) OFAC has the authority, pursuant to IEEPA, to issue Pre-Penalty Notices, Penalty Notices, and Findings of Violation; impose monetary penalties; engage in settlement discussions and enter into settlements; refer matters to the United States Department of Justice for administrative collection; and, in appropriate circumstances, refer matters to appropriate law enforcement agencies for criminal investigation and/or prosecution. For more information, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, which provides a general framework for the enforcement of all economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including enforcement-related definitions, types of responses to apparent violations, general factors affecting administrative actions, civil penalties for failure to comply with a requirement to furnish information or keep records, and other general civil penalties information.

Subpart H—Procedures


§ 599.801   Procedures.

For license application procedures and procedures relating to amendments, modifications, or revocations of licenses; administrative decisions; rulemaking; and requests for documents pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts (5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a), see part 501, subpart E, of this chapter.

§ 599.802   Delegation of certain authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to take pursuant to E.O. 14059 of December 15, 2021, and any further Executive orders issued pursuant to the national emergency declared therein, may be taken by the Director of OFAC or by any other person to whom the Secretary of the Treasury has delegated authority so to act.

Subpart I—Paperwork Reduction Act


§ 599.901   Paperwork Reduction Act notice.

For approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3507) of information collections relating to recordkeeping and reporting requirements, licensing procedures, and other procedures, see § 501.901 of this chapter. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a valid control number assigned by OMB.

Appendix A to Part 599—Executive Order 14059 of December 15, 2021

Executive Order 14059 of December 15, 2021
Imposing Sanctions on Foreign Persons Involved in the Global Illicit Drug Trade
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) (FSA), sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
) (FSA), sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that the trafficking into the United States of illicit drugs, including fentanyl and other synthetic opioids, is causing the deaths of tens of thousands of Americans annually, as well as countless more non-fatal overdoses with their own tragic human toll. Drug cartels, transnational criminal organizations, and their facilitators are the primary sources of illicit drugs and precursor chemicals that fuel the current opioid epidemic, as well as drug-related violence that harms our communities. I find that international drug trafficking—including the illicit production, global sale, and widespread distribution of illegal drugs; the rise of extremely potent drugs such as fentanyl and other synthetic opioids; as well as the growing role of internet-based drug sales—constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. This serious threat requires our country to modernize and update our response to drug trafficking. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.
Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2 of this order on any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
Section 1.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2 of this order on any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) to have engaged in, or attempted to engage in, activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially contributing to, the international proliferation of illicit drugs or their means of production; or
(ii) to have knowingly received any property or interest in property that the foreign person knows:
(A) constitutes or is derived from proceeds of activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially contributing to, the international proliferation of illicit drugs or their means of production; or
(B) was used or intended to be used to commit or to facilitate activities or transactions that have materially contributed to, or pose a significant risk of materially contributing to, the international proliferation of illicit drugs or their means of production.
(b) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2 of this order on any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) to have provided, or attempted to provide, financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of:
(A) any activity or transaction described in subsection (a)(i) of this section; or
(B) any sanctioned person;
(ii) to be or have been a leader or official of any sanctioned person or of any foreign person that has engaged in any activity or transaction described in subsection (a)(i) of this section; or
(iii) to be owned, controlled, or directed by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any sanctioned person.
(c) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to impose any of the sanctions described in section 2 of this order consistent with the requirements of section 7212 of the FSA (21 U.S.C. 2312) on any foreign person determined by the President, or by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to authority delegated by the President and in accordance with the terms of such delegation, to be subject to sanctions pursuant to section 7212 of the FSA.
Sec. 2. When the Secretary of the Treasury, in accordance with the terms of section 1 of this order, has determined that a foreign person meets any of the criteria in section 1(a)-(c) of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is authorized to select one or more of the sanctions set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(vi) of this section to impose on that foreign person.
Sec. 2.
When the Secretary of the Treasury, in accordance with the terms of section 1 of this order, has determined that a foreign person meets any of the criteria in section 1(a)-(c) of this order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is authorized to select one or more of the sanctions set forth in subsections (a)(i)-(vi) of this section to impose on that foreign person.
(a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall take the following actions as necessary to implement the selected sanctions:
(i) block all property and interests in property of the sanctioned person that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, and provide that such property and interests in property may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in;
(ii) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions, or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and involve any interest of the sanctioned person;
(iii) prohibit any United States financial institution from making loans or providing credit to the sanctioned person;
(iv) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and in which the sanctioned person has any interest;
(v) prohibit any United States person from investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or debt instruments of the sanctioned person; or
(vi) impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, any of the sanctions described in subsections (a)(i)-(v) of this section that are applicable.
(b) The heads of the relevant executive departments and agencies, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall take the following actions as necessary and appropriate to implement the sanctions selected by the Secretary of the Treasury:
(i) with respect to a sanctioned person that is a financial institution:
(A) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall not designate, and shall rescind any prior designation of, the sanctioned person as a primary dealer in United States Government debt instruments; and
(B) the sanctioned person shall not serve as an agent of the United States Government or serve as a repository for United States Government funds;
(ii) actions required to ensure that executive departments and agencies shall not procure, or enter into a contract for the procurement of, any goods or services from the sanctioned person;
(iii) actions required to suspend entry into the United States of any noncitizen whom the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, determines is a leader, official, senior executive officer, or director of, or a shareholder with a controlling interest in, the sanctioned person; or
(iv) actions required to impose on the principal executive officer or officers of the sanctioned person, or on persons performing similar functions and with similar authorities as such officer or officers, any of the sanctions described in subsections (b)(i)-(iii) of this section that are applicable.
Sec. 3. The prohibitions in section 2 of this order apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.
Sec. 3.
The prohibitions in section 2 of this order apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the date of this order.
Sec. 4. (a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet any of the criteria in section l(a)-(c) of this order, and for whom the sanctions described in section 2(a)(i) or 2(b)(iii) of this order have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
Sec. 4.
(a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet any of the criteria in section l(a)-(c) of this order, and for whom the sanctions described in section 2(a)(i) or 2(b)(iii) of this order have been selected, would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
(b) The Secretary of State shall implement this order as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.
(c) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may establish.
(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 5. The prohibitions in section 2(a)(i) of this order include:
Sec. 5.
The prohibitions in section 2(a)(i) of this order include:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 6. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6.
(a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 7. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2(a) of this order.
Sec. 7.
I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 2(a) of this order.
Sec. 8. For the purpose of this order:
Sec. 8.
For the purpose of this order:
(a) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “financial institution” includes a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(l) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(l))), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7))); a credit union; a securities firm, including a broker or dealer; an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and any other company that provides financial services;
(c) the term “foreign person” means any citizen or national of a foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or national of the United States, provided such individual does not reside in the United States) or any entity not organized under the laws of the United States;
(d) the term “knowingly” or “knows” with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result;
(e) the phrase “means of production” includes any activities or transactions involving any equipment, chemical, product, or material that may be used, directly or indirectly, in the manufacture of illicit drugs or precursor chemicals;
(f) the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States;
(g) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(h) the term “proliferation of illicit drugs” means any illicit activity to produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, or knowingly finance or transport: narcotic drugs, controlled substances, listed chemicals, or controlled substance analogues, as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802);
(i) the term “sanctioned person” means any person sanctioned pursuant to this order;
(j) the term “United States financial institution” means a financial institution (including its foreign branches) organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States or located in the United States; and
(k) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.
Sec. 9. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for those measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.
Sec. 9.
For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for those measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.
Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by the FSA or IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement the provisions of this order.
Sec. 10.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by the FSA or IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement the provisions of this order.
Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 11.
The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
Sec. 12.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 15, 2021.

Appendix A to Chapter V—Information Pertaining to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List

[Authority:3 U.S.C. 301; 8 U.S.C. 1182, 1189; 18 U.S.C. 2339B; 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 22 U.S.C. 9201-9255; 22 U.S.C. 10101-10103; 50 U.S.C. App. 1-44; Pub. L. 110-286, 122 Stat. 2632 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 111-195, 124 Stat. 1312 (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551); Pub. L.112-81, 125 Stat. 1298 (22 U.S.C. 8513a); Pub. L. 112-158, 126 Stat. 1214 (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795); Pub. L. 112-208, 126 Stat. 1502 (22 U.S.C. 5811 note); Pub. L. 113-278, 128 Stat. 3011 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 114-194, 130 Stat. 674 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.).
The Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) maintains on its Web site a list of blocked persons, blocked vessels, specially designated nationals, specially designated terrorists, specially designated global terrorists, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially designated narcotics traffickers whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the various economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC. This Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) is updated frequently and at irregular intervals to incorporate changes reflected in notices of blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions, all of which are published in the Federal Register. The SDN List is available in a variety of formats for review on, or download from, the following location on OFAC's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Members of the public may also sign up through OFAC's Web site to receive e-mail notifications of changes to the SDN List.
In addition to accessing information through OFAC's Web site, the public may contact OFAC's Compliance Division, at 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free), for information on blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions. The public also may contact OFAC in writing at the following address: Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
Notes: The SDN List provides the following information (to the extent known) concerning blocked persons, specially designated nationals, specially designated terrorists, specially designated global terrorists, foreign terrorist organizations, specially designated narcotics traffickers and blocked vessels:
1. For blocked individuals: Name and title (known aliases); address(es); other identifying information, such as date of birth, place of birth, nationality, and passport or national identification number; the notation “(individual)”; and [sanctions program under which the individual is blocked].
2. For blocked entities: Name (known former or alternate names); address(es); other identifying information, such as national tax identification number(s); and [sanctions program under which the entity is blocked].
3. For blocked vessels: Name (known former or alternate names); other identifying information, such as International Maritime Organization number, country of registration or flag, vessel type, size in dead weight and/or gross tons, call sign, vessel owner; the notation “(vessel)”; and [sanctions program under which the vessel is blocked].
4. Abbreviations. “a.k.a.” means “also known as”; “d.b.a.” means “doing business as”; “f.k.a.” means “formerly known as”; “IMO” means “International Maritime Organization”; “n.k.a.” means “now known as”; “DOB” means “date of birth”; “DWT” means “deadweight”; “GRT” means “Gross Registered Tonnage”; “POB” means “place of birth”.
5. Notices of blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions are published in the Federal Register frequently and at irregular intervals. Updated information on OFAC blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions is provided on OFAC's Web site (http://www.treasury.gov/ofac). In addition, such information is incorporated on an ongoing basis into OFAC's SDN List, which is available for review on, or download from, the following location on OFAC's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Please call OFAC's Compliance Division with questions about OFAC-administered sanctions programs, including current electronic sources of OFAC information: 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free). Updated information on OFAC designations and other OFAC actions should be consulted before engaging in transactions that may be prohibited by the economic sanctions programs in chapter V.
6. Specific licenses previously issued by OFAC may include references to appendix A or appendix B to 31 CFR chapter V. OFAC hereby notifies persons who have been issued specific licenses by OFAC that any reference to appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V or Appendix B to 31 CFR chapter V in an outstanding specific license shall be read to refer to the SDN List. The SDN List is available for review on or download from the following location on OFAC's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
7. The SDN List incorporates the names of vessels owned by blocked persons, which are themselves blocked. SDN List entries for blocked vessels, which include the notation “(vessel),” are incorporated in alphabetical order into the SDN List. In addition, these entries are segregated into a separate sub-section of the SDN List under the heading “(vessels).” Except in limited circumstances, financial institutions are instructed to reject any funds transfer referencing a blocked vessel and must notify OFAC, preferably via facsimile at 202/622-2426 with a copy of the payment instructions, that funds have been returned to remitter due to the possible involvement of a blocked vessel in the underlying transaction. See § 501.604(b)(1) of this chapter. Financial institutions should contact OFAC's Compliance Division, at 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free), for further instructions should the name of a blocked vessel appear in shipping documents presented under a letter of credit or if noticed in a documentary collection. Blocked vessels must themselves be physically blocked should they enter U.S. jurisdiction. Freight forwarders and shippers may not charter, book cargo on, or otherwise deal with blocked vessels.
8. The SDN List includes the names of persons identified as the Government of Iran or an Iranian financial institution and other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 560 (ITSR). The SDN List entries for such persons include the identifier “[IRAN].” U.S. persons are advised to review 31 CFR part 560 prior to engaging in transactions involving the persons included on the SDN List with the identifier “[IRAN].” U.S. persons are further cautioned that persons identified as the Government of Iran or an Iranian financial institution and any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to 31 CFR 560.211 also may be designated or blocked pursuant to other sanctions programs administered by OFAC. The SDN List entry for such a person may include—in addition to the identifier “[IRAN]”—identifier(s) for the other sanctions program(s) pursuant to which the person is listed on the SDN List. Moreover, the prohibitions set forth in the ITSR, and the compliance obligations, with respect to persons who meet the definition of the Government of Iran in § 560.304 of the ITSR or the definition of Iranian financial institution in § 560.324 of the ITSR apply regardless of whether such persons are identified on the SDN List.]
Authority:
3 U.S.C. 301; 8 U.S.C. 1182, 1189; 18 U.S.C. 2339B; 21 U.S.C. 1901-1908; 22 U.S.C. 287c; 31 U.S.C. 321(b); 22 U.S.C. 9201-9255; 22 U.S.C. 10101-10103; 50 U.S.C. App. 1-44; Pub. L. 110-286, 122 Stat. 2632 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 111-195, 124 Stat. 1312 (22 U.S.C. 8501-8551); Pub. L.112-81, 125 Stat. 1298 (22 U.S.C. 8513a); Pub. L. 112-158, 126 Stat. 1214 (22 U.S.C. 8701-8795); Pub. L. 112-208, 126 Stat. 1502 (22 U.S.C. 5811 note); Pub. L. 113-278, 128 Stat. 3011 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 114-102, 129 Stat. 2205 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 114-194, 130 Stat. 674 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); Pub. L. 115-44, 131 Stat. 886 (codified in scattered sections of 22 U.S.C.).
The Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) maintains on its Web site a list of blocked persons, blocked vessels, specially designated nationals, specially designated terrorists, specially designated global terrorists, foreign terrorist organizations, and specially designated narcotics traffickers whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to the various economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC. This Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (“SDN List”) is updated frequently and at irregular intervals to incorporate changes reflected in notices of blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions, all of which are published in the
Federal Register.
The SDN List is available in a variety of formats for review on, or download from, the following location on OFAC's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Members of the public may also sign up through OFAC's Web site to receive e-mail notifications of changes to the SDN List.
In addition to accessing information through OFAC's Web site, the public may contact OFAC's Compliance Division, at 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free), for information on blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions. The public also may contact OFAC in writing at the following address: Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
Notes:
The SDN List provides the following information (to the extent known) concerning blocked persons, specially designated nationals, specially designated terrorists, specially designated global terrorists, foreign terrorist organizations, specially designated narcotics traffickers and blocked vessels:
1. For blocked individuals: Name and title (known aliases); address(es); other identifying information, such as date of birth, place of birth, nationality, and passport or national identification number; the notation “(individual)”; and [sanctions program under which the individual is blocked].
2. For blocked entities: Name (known former or alternate names); address(es); other identifying information, such as national tax identification number(s); and [sanctions program under which the entity is blocked].
3. For blocked vessels: Name (known former or alternate names); other identifying information, such as International Maritime Organization number, country of registration or flag, vessel type, size in dead weight and/or gross tons, call sign, vessel owner; the notation “(vessel)”; and [sanctions program under which the vessel is blocked].
4. Abbreviations. “a.k.a.” means “also known as”; “d.b.a.” means “doing business as”; “f.k.a.” means “formerly known as”; “IMO” means “International Maritime Organization”; “n.k.a.” means “now known as”; “DOB” means “date of birth”; “DWT” means “deadweight”; “GRT” means “Gross Registered Tonnage”; “POB” means “place of birth”.
5. Notices of blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions are published in the Federal Register frequently and at irregular intervals. Updated information on OFAC blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions is provided on OFAC's Web site (http://www.treasury.gov/ofac). In addition, such information is incorporated on an ongoing basis into OFAC's SDN List, which is available for review on, or download from, the following location on OFAC's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn. Please call OFAC's Compliance Division with questions about OFAC-administered sanctions programs, including current electronic sources of OFAC information: 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free). Updated information on OFAC designations and other OFAC actions should be consulted before engaging in transactions that may be prohibited by the economic sanctions programs in chapter V.
Federal Register
frequently and at irregular intervals. Updated information on OFAC blocking, designation, identification, and delisting actions is provided on OFAC's Web site (
http://www.treasury.gov/ofac
). In addition, such information is incorporated on an ongoing basis into OFAC's SDN List, which is available for review on, or download from, the following location on OFAC's Web site:
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
Please call OFAC's Compliance Division with questions about OFAC-administered sanctions programs, including current electronic sources of OFAC information: 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free). Updated information on OFAC designations and other OFAC actions should be consulted before engaging in transactions that may be prohibited by the economic sanctions programs in chapter V.
6. Specific licenses previously issued by OFAC may include references to appendix A or appendix B to 31 CFR chapter V. OFAC hereby notifies persons who have been issued specific licenses by OFAC that any reference to appendix A to 31 CFR chapter V or Appendix B to 31 CFR chapter V in an outstanding specific license shall be read to refer to the SDN List. The SDN List is available for review on or download from the following location on OFAC's Web site: http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
http://www.treasury.gov/sdn.
7. The SDN List incorporates the names of vessels owned by blocked persons, which are themselves blocked. SDN List entries for blocked vessels, which include the notation “(vessel),” are incorporated in alphabetical order into the SDN List. In addition, these entries are segregated into a separate sub-section of the SDN List under the heading “(vessels).” Except in limited circumstances, financial institutions are instructed to reject any funds transfer referencing a blocked vessel and must notify OFAC, preferably via facsimile at 202/622-2426 with a copy of the payment instructions, that funds have been returned to remitter due to the possible involvement of a blocked vessel in the underlying transaction. See § 501.604(b)(1) of this chapter. Financial institutions should contact OFAC's Compliance Division, at 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free), for further instructions should the name of a blocked vessel appear in shipping documents presented under a letter of credit or if noticed in a documentary collection. Blocked vessels must themselves be physically blocked should they enter U.S. jurisdiction. Freight forwarders and shippers may not charter, book cargo on, or otherwise deal with blocked vessels.
See
§ 501.604(b)(1) of this chapter. Financial institutions should contact OFAC's Compliance Division, at 202/622-2490 or 800/540-6322 (toll-free), for further instructions should the name of a blocked vessel appear in shipping documents presented under a letter of credit or if noticed in a documentary collection. Blocked vessels must themselves be physically blocked should they enter U.S. jurisdiction. Freight forwarders and shippers may not charter, book cargo on, or otherwise deal with blocked vessels.
8. The SDN List includes the names of persons identified as the Government of Iran or an Iranian financial institution and other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 560 (ITSR). The SDN List entries for such persons include the identifier “[IRAN].” U.S. persons are advised to review 31 CFR part 560 prior to engaging in transactions involving the persons included on the SDN List with the identifier “[IRAN].” U.S. persons are further cautioned that persons identified as the Government of Iran or an Iranian financial institution and any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to 31 CFR 560.211 also may be designated or blocked pursuant to other sanctions programs administered by OFAC. The SDN List entry for such a person may include—in addition to the identifier “[IRAN]”—identifier(s) for the other sanctions program(s) pursuant to which the person is listed on the SDN List. Moreover, the prohibitions set forth in the ITSR, and the compliance obligations, with respect to persons who meet the definition of the Government of Iran in § 560.304 of the ITSR or the definition of Iranian financial institution in § 560.324 of the ITSR apply regardless of whether such persons are identified on the SDN List.
Government of Iran
or an
Iranian financial institution
and other persons whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to § 560.211 of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 560 (ITSR). The SDN List entries for such persons include the identifier “[IRAN].” U.S. persons are advised to review 31 CFR part 560 prior to engaging in transactions involving the persons included on the SDN List with the identifier “[IRAN].” U.S. persons are further cautioned that persons identified as the
Government of Iran
or an
Iranian financial institution
and any other person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to 31 CFR 560.211 also may be designated or blocked pursuant to other sanctions programs administered by OFAC. The SDN List entry for such a person may include—in addition to the identifier “[IRAN]”—identifier(s) for the other sanctions program(s) pursuant to which the person is listed on the SDN List. Moreover, the prohibitions set forth in the ITSR, and the compliance obligations, with respect to persons who meet the definition of the
Government of Iran
in § 560.304 of the ITSR or the definition of
Iranian financial institution
in § 560.324 of the ITSR apply regardless of whether such persons are identified on the SDN List.
[[76 FR 38545, June 30, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 64691, Oct. 22, 2012; 81 FR 3333, Jan. 21, 2016; 81 FR 76863, Nov. 4, 2016; 83 FR 55271, Nov. 5, 2018; 89 FR 15743, Mar. 5, 2024]]

CHAPTER VI—BUREAU OF ENGRAVING AND PRINTING, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


PART 600 [RESERVED]


PART 601—DISTINCTIVE PAPER AND DISTINCTIVE COUNTERFEIT DETERRENTS FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL RESERVE NOTES

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 418, 421; 18 U.S.C. 474A; 31 U.S.C. 321.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 418, 421; 18 U.S.C. 474A; 31 U.S.C. 321.
[Source:88 FR 43063, July 6, 2023, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
88 FR 43063, July 6, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

§ 601.1   Notice and scope.

The regulation in this part governs the distinctive paper and distinctive counterfeit deterrents adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury for United States Federal Reserve notes, which are subject to 18 U.S.C. 474A. The Director of Bureau of Engraving and Printing, by delegated authority, hereby gives notice of the distinctive paper and distinctive counterfeit deterrents adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 601.2   Distinctiveness requirement.

(a) The Secretary of the Treasury has adopted distinctive paper and distinctive counterfeit deterrents:
(1) In which the United States has an exclusive property interest; or
(2) That are not otherwise in commercial use or the public domain and are necessary for preventing the counterfeiting of United States Federal Reserve notes.
(b) The distinctive paper and counterfeit deterrents are used in United States Federal Reserve notes.

§ 601.3   Distinctive paper.

The distinctive paper is a cream-white currency note paper with fibers, colored red and blue, evenly distributed throughout the currency note paper. The distinctive paper shall contain distinctive counterfeit deterrents in the currency note paper denominations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.

§ 601.4   Distinctive counterfeit deterrents.

The distinctive counterfeit deterrents that may be used in the denominations of United States Federal Reserve notes as prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury are:
(a) Security threads containing graphics consisting of the designation “USA” and the denomination of the currency note, expressed in alphabetic or numeric characters.
(b) Optically variable inks with material characteristics.
(c) Non-visual characteristic inks with material characteristics.
(d) Optically variable thread (three-dimensional (3-D) security ribbon and micro-optic stripe) visible in front or back of the currency note.
(e) Non-visual characteristic features with material characteristics.

§ 601.5   Penalty for Unauthorized Control or Possession.

(a) Control or possession of distinctive paper and/or distinctive counterfeit deterrents adopted in §§  601.3 and 601.4 require authorization by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) The penalty for unauthorized control and/or possession of distinctive paper and/or distinctive counterfeit deterrents adopted in §§  601.3 and 601.4 is found at 18 U.S.C. 474A.

PART 605—REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT IN BUREAU OF ENGRAVING AND PRINTING BUILDINGS AND ON THE GROUNDS OF WASHINGTON, DC AND FORT WORTH, TEXAS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; Delegation, Administrator, General Services, dated December 3, 1992; Treasury Delegation, Assistant Secretary (Management), dated February 4, 1993.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Delegation, Administrator, General Services, dated December 3, 1992; Treasury Delegation, Assistant Secretary (Management), dated February 4, 1993.

§ 605.1   Conduct on Bureau of Engraving and Printing property.

(a) Applicability. These regulations apply to the buildings and grounds of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP) located in Washington, DC, at 14th and C Streets SW., and in Fort Worth, Texas, at 9000 Blue Mound Road, and to all persons entering on such property. Unless otherwise stated, BEP buildings and grounds are referred to in these regulations as the “property.”
Applicability.
These regulations apply to the buildings and grounds of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP) located in Washington, DC, at 14th and C Streets SW., and in Fort Worth, Texas, at 9000 Blue Mound Road, and to all persons entering on such property. Unless otherwise stated, BEP buildings and grounds are referred to in these regulations as the “property.”
(b) Limited access. (1) The property is a high-security facility and shall, in general, be closed to the public. Except as specified in this paragraph (b), access is limited to BEP employees and those persons having official business with BEP. Failure to comply with any regulations of this part may result in denial of access or removal from the property.
Limited access.
(1) The property is a high-security facility and shall, in general, be closed to the public. Except as specified in this paragraph (b), access is limited to BEP employees and those persons having official business with BEP. Failure to comply with any regulations of this part may result in denial of access or removal from the property.
(2) Public tours of limited areas of the property are available during such times as the Director may prescribe.
(3) Limited areas of the property may be open to persons authorized by the Director or the Director's designee.
(4) All persons entering and exiting the property may be required to present suitable identification and may be required to sign entry logs or registers.
(5) All persons entering and exiting the property may be subject to screening devices and shall submit to screening upon request by BEP Police or authorized officials.
(6) All persons entering and exiting the property may be subject to search or inspection of their person, handbags, briefcases, and other handheld articles by BEP Police or authorized officials. All persons on the property may be subject to additional search or inspection by BEP Police or authorized officials upon entry, exit, and request.
(7) All motor vehicles entering, exiting, or located on the property are subject to search or inspection of the exterior and interior compartments by BEP Police or authorized officials at any time.
(8) All lockers, cabinets, closets, desks or similar storage areas on the property are subject to search or inspection by BEP Police or authorized officials.
(9) All computers, data storage devices, and data files owned or controlled by BEP are subject to search or inspection at any time.
(10) Any entrance onto the property without official permission is prohibited.
(c) Video monitoring. All persons entering, exiting, and on the property will be monitored by video. Most internal areas of the property, especially production areas, are continuously monitored by video. Any video image may be recorded.
Video monitoring.
All persons entering, exiting, and on the property will be monitored by video. Most internal areas of the property, especially production areas, are continuously monitored by video. Any video image may be recorded.
(d) Preservation of property. It shall be unlawful for any person, without proper authority, to willfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property.
Preservation of property.
It shall be unlawful for any person, without proper authority, to willfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property.
(e) Compliance with instructions and signs. All persons on the property shall comply with the instructions of BEP Police, authorized officials, and posted signs or notices.
Compliance with instructions and signs.
All persons on the property shall comply with the instructions of BEP Police, authorized officials, and posted signs or notices.
(f) Nuisances. The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or property, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. The throwing of any articles of any kind in, upon, or from the property and climbing upon any unauthorized portion of the property is prohibited.
Nuisances.
The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or property, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. The throwing of any articles of any kind in, upon, or from the property and climbing upon any unauthorized portion of the property is prohibited.
(g) Gambling. (1) Participation in games for money or other property, the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, the selling or purchasing of numbers, tickets, or any other gambling on the property is prohibited.
Gambling.
(1) Participation in games for money or other property, the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, the selling or purchasing of numbers, tickets, or any other gambling on the property is prohibited.
(2) Possession on the property of any numbers slip or ticket, record, notation, receipt or other writing of a type ordinarily used in any illegal form of gambling, unless explained to the satisfaction of the Director or the Director's designee, shall be evidence of participation in an illegal form of gambling on the property.
(h) Intoxicating substances, illegal narcotics, and other controlled substances. The possession, use, consumption, or being under the influence of intoxicating substances, illegal narcotics, and other controlled substances (see 21 CFR part 1308) while entering and on the property is prohibited. BEP Police may direct a person to complete a field sobriety test or breathalyzer test upon reasonable suspicion of intoxication or influence. The Director may authorize the possession, use, and consumption of alcoholic beverages on BEP property for infrequent, special occasions. Such authorization must be in writing.
Intoxicating substances, illegal narcotics, and other controlled substances.
The possession, use, consumption, or being under the influence of intoxicating substances, illegal narcotics, and other controlled substances (see 21 CFR part 1308) while entering and on the property is prohibited. BEP Police may direct a person to complete a field sobriety test or breathalyzer test upon reasonable suspicion of intoxication or influence. The Director may authorize the possession, use, and consumption of alcoholic beverages on BEP property for infrequent, special occasions. Such authorization must be in writing.
(i) Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills. Fundraising for any cause other than the Combined Federal Campaign or other cause authorized by the Office of Personnel Management, the commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts other than as provided by law, in or on the property is prohibited. This rule does not apply to BEP concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval from the Director or the Director's designee.
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
Fundraising for any cause other than the Combined Federal Campaign or other cause authorized by the Office of Personnel Management, the commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts other than as provided by law, in or on the property is prohibited. This rule does not apply to BEP concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval from the Director or the Director's designee.
(j) Photographs and recordings. The taking of photographs on the property is prohibited without permission of the Director or the Director's designee. The taking of voice or video recordings on the property is prohibited without the permission of the Director or the Director's designee. Note: The property includes the Tour and Visitor Center and the limited areas accessible for public tour.
Photographs and recordings.
The taking of photographs on the property is prohibited without permission of the Director or the Director's designee. The taking of voice or video recordings on the property is prohibited without the permission of the Director or the Director's designee.
Note:
The property includes the Tour and Visitor Center and the limited areas accessible for public tour.
(k) Animals. Animals, except service animals, shall not be brought on the property for other than official purposes.
Animals.
Animals, except service animals, shall not be brought on the property for other than official purposes.
(l) Vehicular and pedestrian traffic. (1) Drivers of all vehicles on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of BEP Police and all posted traffic signs. Drivers are subject to all applicable motor vehicle laws and regulations of the surrounding jurisdiction.
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(1) Drivers of all vehicles on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of BEP Police and all posted traffic signs. Drivers are subject to all applicable motor vehicle laws and regulations of the surrounding jurisdiction.
(2) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, fire hydrants, or standpipes on the property is prohibited.
(3) Parking on the property is not allowed without a permit or authority. Parking without a permit or authority, not in accordance with a permit or authority, or contrary to the direction of BEP Police, authorized officials, and posted signs or notices is prohibited.
(m) Weapons and explosives. No person on the property shall carry firearms, explosives, or other dangerous or deadly weapons as defined by Title 18 United States Code, either openly or concealed, except for official purposes.
Weapons and explosives.
No person on the property shall carry firearms, explosives, or other dangerous or deadly weapons as defined by Title 18 United States Code, either openly or concealed, except for official purposes.
(n) Smoking. Smoking on the property is not permitted except in designated smoking areas.
Smoking.
Smoking on the property is not permitted except in designated smoking areas.
(o) Penalties and other law. (1) Violations of this part shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $5,000 or the maximum extent allowable under the United States Code, whichever is greater, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both in accordance with 40 United States Code, Section 1315.
Penalties and other law.
(1) Violations of this part shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $5,000 or the maximum extent allowable under the United States Code, whichever is greater, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both in accordance with 40 United States Code, Section 1315.
(2) Violations of 18 United States Code, Section 930 (dangerous weapon clause) shall be punishable by a fine of $100,000 or imprisonment for not more than a year, or both, unless there is intent to commit a crime with the weapon, in which case the punishment shall be a fine of $250,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years, or both.
(3) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal, District of Columbia, or Texas law or regulations, or any Tarrant County ordinance applicable to the property.
[[81 FR 11432, Mar. 4, 2016]]

PARTS 606-699 [RESERVED]


CHAPTER VII—FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


PART 700—REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT IN OR ON THE FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER (FLETC) BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS

[Authority:5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; Treasury Department Order No. 140-01, dated September 20, 1994; 41 FR 5869, dated Feb. 10, 1996.]
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; Treasury Department Order No. 140-01, dated September 20, 1994; 41 FR 5869, dated Feb. 10, 1996.
[Source:63 FR 39730, July 24, 1998, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
63 FR 39730, July 24, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

§ 700.2   Applicability.

The regulations in this part apply to the buildings and surrounding property of the FLETC, Glynco, Georgia; Artesia, New Mexico; FLECT's Washington Office; any other temporary site FLETC may occupy; and to all persons entering such buildings or property.

§ 700.3   Recording presence.

Except as otherwise ordered, the property shall be closed to the general public. Admission to the property will be limited to authorized individuals who will be required to obtain a visitor's pass and/or display identification documents, in accordance with FLETC policy.

§ 700.4   Preservation of property.

It shall be unlawful for any person without proper authority to willfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property (including Federal records) or any part thereof or any furnishing therein.

§ 700.5   Compliance with signs and directions.

Persons in and on the property shall comply with the instructions of uniformed FLETC security officers, other authorized officials, official signs of a prohibitory or directory nature, and all applicable statutes and regulations.

§ 700.6   Nuisances.

The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, except as part of an authorized practical training exercise, unwarranted loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or things, improper disposal of rubbish, or the commission of any disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. Prohibited actions in the preceding sentence are limited to those actions which impede, obstruct, or otherwise interfere with the Government's business which includes, among other things, the maintenance of the facility, protection of persons and property, and the smooth administration of academic activities and supporting services. The entry, without specific permission, upon any part of the property to which authorized visitors do not customarily have access, is prohibited.

§ 700.7   Alcoholic beverages, narcotics, and drugs.

Entering or being on the property, or operating a motor vehicle thereon, by a person under the influence of alcoholic beverages, narcotics, hallucinogenic or dangerous drugs, or marijuana is prohibited. The possession or use of any unlawful drug or substance contrary to the provisions of Federal, State, or local law in or on the property is prohibited.

§ 700.8   Soliciting, vending, debt collection and distribution of handbills.

The unauthorized soliciting for charity and contributions, commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts, other than legal service of process, in or on the property, is prohibited. This prohibition does not apply to Federal Law Enforcement Training Center concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval of the Director.

§ 700.9   Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes.

Photographs for news, advertising, or commercial purposes may be taken on the property only with the prior permission of the Director. Taking photographs of a student is prohibited without the consent of the student.

§ 700.10   Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.

(a) Drivers of all vehicles on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of security officers and all posted traffic signs. All persons on the property must comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws. All drivers operating a vehicle on property roadways must possess a valid driver's license.
(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire-hydrants in or on the property is prohibited.
(c) Parking is permitted only in authorized locations.
(d) This section may be supplemented from time to time by the Director by the issuance and posting of traffic directives. When so issued and posted, such directives shall have the same force and effect as if made a part hereof.

§ 700.11   Weapons and explosives.

No person, while on the property, shall carry firearms, other dangerous or deadly weapons, or explosives, either openly or concealed, except for authorized training or official purposes, in accordance with FLETC regulations.

§ 700.12   Authority to search persons and vehicles.

Persons and vehicles entering upon FLETC facilities are subject to search by authorized security officers.

§ 700.13   Nondiscrimination.

(a) No one entering upon FLETC property shall discriminate against or harass any other person on such property, on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, or disability, Sexual harassment is a form of sex discrimination and is expressly prohibited.
(b) Appropriate action will be taken against any person who violates any discrimination prohibition contained in paragraph (a) of this section. However, this section does not create any legal rights enforceable against the Department of the Treasury, its officers, or employees, or any other person. Although this section does not create any enforceable rights, actions in violation of the section may still result in civil or criminal action in accordance with applicable laws.

§ 700.14   Smoking.

Smoking of cigarettes, cigars and pipes is prohibited in all FLETC buildings and vehicles.

PARTS 701-799 [RESERVED]


CHAPTER VIII—OFFICE OF INVESTMENT SECURITY, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


PART 800—REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES BY FOREIGN PERSONS

[Authority:50 U.S.C. 4565; E.O. 11858, as amended, 73 FR 4677.]
Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4565; E.O. 11858, as amended, 73 FR 4677.
[Source:85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General


§ 800.101   Scope.

(a) Section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565), authorizes the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States to review any covered transaction, as defined in § 800.213 of this part, and to mitigate any risk to the national security of the United States that arises as a result of such transactions. Section 721 also authorizes the President to suspend or prohibit any covered transaction when, in the President's judgment, there is credible evidence that leads the President to believe that the foreign person engaging in a covered transaction might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States, and when provisions of law other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) do not, in the judgment of the President, provide adequate and appropriate authority for the President to protect the national security of the United States in the matter before the President.
et seq.
) do not, in the judgment of the President, provide adequate and appropriate authority for the President to protect the national security of the United States in the matter before the President.
(b) This part implements regulations pertaining to covered transactions. Regulations pertaining to “covered real estate transactions” are addressed in part 802 of this chapter.

§ 800.102   Risk-based analysis.

Any determination of the Committee with respect to a covered transaction to suspend, refer to the President, or to negotiate, enter into or impose, or enforce any agreement or condition under section 721 shall be based on a risk-based analysis, conducted by the Committee, of the effects on the national security of the United States of the covered transaction. Any such risk-based analysis shall include credible evidence demonstrating the risk and an assessment of the threat, vulnerabilities, and consequences to national security related to the transaction. For purposes of this part, any such analysis of risk shall include and be informed by consideration of the following elements:
(a) The threat, which is a function of the intent and capability of a foreign person to take action to impair the national security of the United States;
threat,
which is a function of the intent and capability of a foreign person to take action to impair the national security of the United States;
(b) The vulnerabilities, which are the extent to which the nature of the U.S. business presents susceptibility to impairment of national security; and
vulnerabilities,
which are the extent to which the nature of the U.S. business presents susceptibility to impairment of national security; and
(c) The consequences to national security, which are the potential effects on national security that could reasonably result from the exploitation of the vulnerabilities by the threat actor.
consequences to national security,
which are the potential effects on national security that could reasonably result from the exploitation of the vulnerabilities by the threat actor.

§ 800.103   Effect on other law.

Nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, or review provided by or established under any other provision of federal law, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States.

§ 800.104   Applicability rule.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section and otherwise in this part, the regulations in this part apply from February 13, 2020.
(b) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, for any transaction for which the following has occurred before February 13, 2020, the corresponding provisions of the regulations in this part that were in effect on February 12, 2020, will apply:
(1) The completion date;
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction;
(3) A party has made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of a U.S. business; or
(4) A shareholder has solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of a U.S. business or an owner or holder of a contingent equity interest has requested the conversion of the contingent equity interest.
(c) For any transaction to which part 801 of this title was applicable from November 10, 2018, through February 12, 2020, the regulations in part 801 in effect during that time will continue to apply.
Note 1 to § 800.104:
See subpart I (Penalties and Damages) of this part for specific applicability rules pertaining to that subpart.
(d) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, for any transaction for which the following has occurred on or after February 13, 2020, and before October 15, 2020, the corresponding provisions of the regulations in this part that were in effect during that time will apply:
(1) The completion date;
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction;
(3) A party has made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of a U.S. business; or
(4) A shareholder has solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of a U.S. business or an owner or holder of a contingent equity interest has requested the conversion of the contingent equity interest.
(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the amendments to this part published in the Federal Register on September 15, 2020 apply from October 15, 2020.
Federal Register
on September 15, 2020 apply from October 15, 2020.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the amendments to this part published in the Federal Register on November 26, 2024 apply from December 26, 2024.
Federal Register
on November 26, 2024 apply from December 26, 2024.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020; 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 800.105   Rules of construction and interpretation.

(a) The examples included in this part are provided for informational purposes and should not be construed to alter the meaning of the text of the regulations in this part.
(b) As used in this part, the term “including” means “including but not limited to.”

Subpart B—Definitions


§ 800.201   Aggregated data.

The term aggregated data means data that have been combined or collected together in summary or other form such that the data cannot be identified with any individual.
aggregated data
means data that have been combined or collected together in summary or other form such that the data cannot be identified with any individual.

§ 800.202   Anonymized data.

The term anonymized data means data from which all personal identifiers have been completely removed.
anonymized data
means data from which all personal identifiers have been completely removed.

§ 800.203   Business day.

The term business day means Monday through Friday, except the legal public holidays specified in 5 U.S.C. 6103, any day declared to be a holiday by federal statute or executive order, or any day with respect to which the U.S. Office of Personnel Management has announced that Federal agencies in the Washington, DC, area are closed. For purposes of calculating any deadline imposed by this part triggered by the submission of a party to a transaction under § 800.401(g)(2) or § 800.501(i), any submissions received after 5 p.m. Eastern Time are deemed to be submitted on the next business day.
business day
means Monday through Friday, except the legal public holidays specified in 5 U.S.C. 6103, any day declared to be a holiday by federal statute or executive order, or any day with respect to which the U.S. Office of Personnel Management has announced that Federal agencies in the Washington, DC, area are closed. For purposes of calculating any deadline imposed by this part triggered by the submission of a party to a transaction under § 800.401(g)(2) or § 800.501(i), any submissions received after 5 p.m. Eastern Time are deemed to be submitted on the next business day.
Note 1 to § 800.203:
See § 800.604 regarding the tolling of deadlines during a lapse in appropriations.

§ 800.204   Certification.

(a) The term certification means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of a party filing a notice, declaration, or information, certifying under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notice, declaration, or information filed:
certification
means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of a party filing a notice, declaration, or information, certifying under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notice, declaration, or information filed:
(1) Fully complies with the requirements of section 721, the regulations in this part, and any agreement or condition entered into with the Committee or any member of the Committee, and
(2) Is accurate and complete in all material respects, as it relates to:
(i) The transaction; and
(ii) The party providing the certification, including its parents, subsidiaries, and any other related entities described in the notice, declaration, or information.
(b) For purposes of this section, a duly authorized designee is:
duly authorized designee
is:
(1) In the case of a partnership, any general partner thereof;
(2) In the case of a corporation, any officer or director thereof;
(3) In the case of any entity lacking partners, officers, and directors, any individual within the organization exercising executive functions similar to those of a general partner of a partnership or an officer or director of a corporation; and
(4) In the case of an individual, such individual or his or her legal representative.
(c) In each case described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, such designee must possess actual authority to make the certification on behalf of the party filing a notice, declaration, or information.
Note 1 to § 800.204:
A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.

§ 800.205   Committee; Chairperson of the Committee; Staff Chairperson.

The term Committee means the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The Chairperson of the Committee is the Secretary of the Treasury. The Staff Chairperson of the Committee is the Department of the Treasury official so designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or by the Secretary's designee.
Committee
means the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The
Chairperson of the Committee
is the Secretary of the Treasury. The
Staff Chairperson
of the Committee is the Department of the Treasury official so designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or by the Secretary's designee.

§ 800.206   Completion date.

The term completion date means, with respect to a transaction, the earliest date upon which any ownership interest, including a contingent equity interest, is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to a person, or a change in rights that could result in a covered control transaction or covered investment occurs.
completion date
means, with respect to a transaction, the earliest date upon which any ownership interest, including a contingent equity interest, is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to a person, or a change in rights that could result in a covered control transaction or covered investment occurs.
Note 1 to § 800.206:
See § 800.308 regarding the timing rule for a contingent equity interest.

§ 800.207   Contingent equity interest.

The term contingent equity interest means a financial instrument that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event.
contingent equity interest
means a financial instrument that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event.

§ 800.208   Control.

(a) The term control means the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, through the ownership of a majority or a dominant minority of the total outstanding voting interest in an entity, board representation, proxy voting, a special share, contractual arrangements, formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or other means, to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting an entity; in particular, but without limitation, to determine, direct, take, reach, or cause decisions regarding the following matters, or any other similarly important matters affecting an entity:
control
means the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, through the ownership of a majority or a dominant minority of the total outstanding voting interest in an entity, board representation, proxy voting, a special share, contractual arrangements, formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or other means, to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting an entity; in particular, but without limitation, to determine, direct, take, reach, or cause decisions regarding the following matters, or any other similarly important matters affecting an entity:
(1) The sale, lease, mortgage, pledge, or other transfer of any of the tangible or intangible principal assets of the entity, whether or not in the ordinary course of business;
(2) The reorganization, merger, or dissolution of the entity;
(3) The closing, relocation, or substantial alteration of the production, operational, or research and development facilities of the entity;
(4) Major expenditures or investments, issuances of equity or debt, or dividend payments by the entity, or approval of the operating budget of the entity;
(5) The selection of new business lines or ventures that the entity will pursue;
(6) The entry into, termination, or non-fulfillment by the entity of significant contracts;
(7) The policies or procedures of the entity governing the treatment of non-public technical, financial, or other proprietary information of the entity;
(8) The appointment or dismissal of officers or senior managers or, in the case of a partnership, the general partner;
(9) The appointment or dismissal of employees with access to critical technology or other sensitive technology or classified U.S. Government information; or
(10) The amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of the entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.
(b) In examining questions of control in situations where more than one foreign person has an ownership interest in an entity, consideration will be given to factors such as whether the foreign persons are related or have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, whether they are agencies or instrumentalities of the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state, and whether a given foreign person and another person that has an ownership interest in the entity are both controlled by any of the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state.
(c) The following minority shareholder protections shall not in themselves be deemed to confer control over an entity:
(1) The power to prevent the sale or pledge of all or substantially all of the assets of an entity or a voluntary filing for bankruptcy or liquidation;
(2) The power to prevent an entity from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates;
(3) The power to prevent an entity from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates;
(4) The right to purchase an additional interest in an entity to prevent the dilution of an investor's pro rata interest in that entity in the event that the entity issues additional instruments conveying interests in the entity;
(5) The power to prevent the change of existing legal rights or preferences of the particular class of stock held by minority investors, as provided in the relevant corporate documents governing such shares; and
(6) The power to prevent the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of an entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(d) The Committee will consider, on a case-by-case basis, whether minority shareholder protections other than those listed in paragraph (c) of this section do not confer control over an entity.
(e) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A is a U.S. business. A U.S. investor owns 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A, and the remaining voting interest is owned in equal shares by five unrelated foreign investors. The foreign investors jointly financed their investment in Corporation A and vote as a single block on matters affecting Corporation A. The foreign investors have an informal arrangement to act in concert with regard to Corporation A, and, as a result, the foreign investors control Corporation A.
Example 1.
Corporation A is a U.S. business. A U.S. investor owns 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A, and the remaining voting interest is owned in equal shares by five unrelated foreign investors. The foreign investors jointly financed their investment in Corporation A and vote as a single block on matters affecting Corporation A. The foreign investors have an informal arrangement to act in concert with regard to Corporation A, and, as a result, the foreign investors control Corporation A.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(1) of this section with regard to the composition of Corporation A's shareholders. The foreign investors in Corporation A have no contractual or other commitments to act in concert, and have no informal arrangements to do so. Assuming no other relevant facts, the foreign investors do not control Corporation A.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(1) of this section with regard to the composition of Corporation A's shareholders. The foreign investors in Corporation A have no contractual or other commitments to act in concert, and have no informal arrangements to do so. Assuming no other relevant facts, the foreign investors do not control Corporation A.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a foreign person, is a private equity fund that routinely acquires equity interests in companies and manages them for a period of time. Corporation B is a U.S. business. In addition to its acquisition of seven percent of Corporation B's voting shares, Corporation A acquires the right to terminate significant contracts of Corporation B. Corporation A controls Corporation B.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, is a private equity fund that routinely acquires equity interests in companies and manages them for a period of time. Corporation B is a U.S. business. In addition to its acquisition of seven percent of Corporation B's voting shares, Corporation A acquires the right to terminate significant contracts of Corporation B. Corporation A controls Corporation B.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a nine percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. As part of the transaction, Corporation A also acquires certain veto rights that determine important matters affecting Corporation B, including the right to veto the dismissal of senior executives of Corporation B. Corporation A controls Corporation B.
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a nine percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. As part of the transaction, Corporation A also acquires certain veto rights that determine important matters affecting Corporation B, including the right to veto the dismissal of senior executives of Corporation B. Corporation A controls Corporation B.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 13 percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, and the right to appoint one member of Corporation B's seven-member board of directors. Corporation A receives minority shareholder protections listed in paragraph (c) of this section but receives no other positive or negative rights with respect to Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not control Corporation B.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 13 percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, and the right to appoint one member of Corporation B's seven-member board of directors. Corporation A receives minority shareholder protections listed in paragraph (c) of this section but receives no other positive or negative rights with respect to Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not control Corporation B.
(6) Example 6. Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 20 percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. Corporation A has negotiated an irrevocable passivity agreement that completely precludes it from controlling Corporation B. Corporation A does, however, receive the right to prevent Corporation B from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates and to prevent Corporation B from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not control Corporation B.
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 20 percent interest in the shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. Corporation A has negotiated an irrevocable passivity agreement that completely precludes it from controlling Corporation B. Corporation A does, however, receive the right to prevent Corporation B from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates and to prevent Corporation B from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not control Corporation B.
(7) Example 7. Limited Partnership A comprises two limited partners, each of which holds 49 percent of the interest in the partnership, and a general partner, which holds two percent of the interest. The general partner has sole authority to determine, direct, and decide all important matters affecting the partnership and a fund operated by the partnership. The general partner alone controls Limited Partnership A and the fund.
Example 7.
Limited Partnership A comprises two limited partners, each of which holds 49 percent of the interest in the partnership, and a general partner, which holds two percent of the interest. The general partner has sole authority to determine, direct, and decide all important matters affecting the partnership and a fund operated by the partnership. The general partner alone controls Limited Partnership A and the fund.
(8) Example 8. Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, except that each of the limited partners has the authority to veto major investments proposed by the general partner and to choose the fund's representatives on the boards of the fund's portfolio companies. The general partner and the limited partners each have control over Limited Partnership A and the fund.
Example 8.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, except that each of the limited partners has the authority to veto major investments proposed by the general partner and to choose the fund's representatives on the boards of the fund's portfolio companies. The general partner and the limited partners each have control over Limited Partnership A and the fund.
Note 1 to § 800.208:
See § 800.302(b) regarding the Committee's treatment of transactions in which a foreign person holds or acquires 10 percent or less of the outstanding voting interest in a U.S. business solely for the purpose of passive investment. See § 800.303 regarding the Committee's treatment of transactions that do not result in control over a U.S. business by a foreign person, but may be covered investments. See § 800.305 regarding the Committee's treatment of a subsequent transaction involving a foreign person that previously acquired control of the U.S. business.

§ 800.209   Conversion.

The term conversion means the exercise of a right inherent in the ownership or holding of a particular financial instrument to exchange any such instrument for an equity interest.
conversion
means the exercise of a right inherent in the ownership or holding of a particular financial instrument to exchange any such instrument for an equity interest.

§ 800.210   Covered control transaction.

The term covered control transaction means any transaction that is proposed or pending after August 23, 1988, by or with any foreign person that could result in foreign control of any U.S. business, including such a transaction carried out through a joint venture.
covered control transaction
means any transaction that is proposed or pending after August 23, 1988, by or with any foreign person that could result in foreign control of any U.S. business, including such a transaction carried out through a joint venture.

§ 800.211   Covered investment.

The term covered investment means an investment, direct or indirect, by a foreign person other than an excepted investor, in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that is proposed or pending on or after February 13, 2020, and that:
covered investment
means an investment, direct or indirect, by a foreign person other than an excepted investor, in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that is proposed or pending on or after February 13, 2020, and that:
(a) Is not a covered control transaction; and
(b) Affords the foreign person:
(1) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the TID U.S. business;
(2) Membership or observer rights on, or the right to nominate an individual to a position on, the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the TID U.S. business; or
(3) Any involvement, other than through voting of shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the TID U.S. business regarding:
(i) The use, development, acquisition, safekeeping, or release of sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens maintained or collected by the TID U.S. business;
(ii) The use, development, acquisition, or release of critical technologies; or
(iii) The management, operation, manufacture, or supply of covered investment critical infrastructure.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, no investment involving an air carrier, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2), that holds a certificate issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102 shall be a covered investment.
(d) Example: Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, makes a non-controlling investment in Corporation B, a U.S. business, that affords Corporation A the right to nominate one of the directors on Corporation B's board of directors. Corporation B, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Corporation X, designs and manufactures a critical technology. Corporation A's investment in Corporation B is a covered investment.

§ 800.212   Covered investment critical infrastructure.

The term covered investment critical infrastructure means, in the context of a particular covered investment, the systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part.
covered investment critical infrastructure
means, in the context of a particular covered investment, the systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part.

§ 800.213   Covered transaction.

The term covered transaction means any of the following:
covered transaction
means any of the following:
(a) A covered control transaction;
(b) A covered investment;
(c) A change in the rights that a foreign person has with respect to a U.S. business in which the foreign person has an investment, if that change could result in a covered control transaction or a covered investment; or
(d) Any other transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement, the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of section 721.
(e) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 10 percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation X subsequently provides Corporation A the right to appoint the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Technical Officer of Corporation X. Corporation A does not acquire any additional equity interest in Corporation X. Assuming no other relevant facts, the change in rights is a covered transaction.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 10 percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation X subsequently provides Corporation A the right to appoint the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Technical Officer of Corporation X. Corporation A does not acquire any additional equity interest in Corporation X. Assuming no other relevant facts, the change in rights is a covered transaction.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires a 10 percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, but Corporation A is not afforded any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b) at the time of its investment. Corporation X later expands its board of directors and provides Corporation A with the right to appoint a director. Assuming no other relevant facts, the change in rights is a covered transaction.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires a 10 percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, but Corporation A is not afforded any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b) at the time of its investment. Corporation X later expands its board of directors and provides Corporation A with the right to appoint a director. Assuming no other relevant facts, the change in rights is a covered transaction.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. With a view towards circumventing section 721, Corporation A transfers money to a U.S. citizen, who, pursuant to informal arrangements with Corporation A and on its behalf, purchases all the shares in Corporation X, a U.S. business. The transaction is a covered transaction.
Example 3.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. With a view towards circumventing section 721, Corporation A transfers money to a U.S. citizen, who, pursuant to informal arrangements with Corporation A and on its behalf, purchases all the shares in Corporation X, a U.S. business. The transaction is a covered transaction.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state, is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national, and is not an excepted investor. With a view towards circumventing section 721, Corporation A transfers money to a U.S. citizen, who, pursuant to informal arrangements with Corporation A and on its behalf, makes a non-controlling minority equity investment in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that maintains and collects sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens. In connection with the investment, the U.S. citizen is afforded the right to be involved in substantive decisionmaking regarding the release of sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens maintained by Corporation X. The transaction is a covered transaction.
Example 4.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state, is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national, and is not an excepted investor. With a view towards circumventing section 721, Corporation A transfers money to a U.S. citizen, who, pursuant to informal arrangements with Corporation A and on its behalf, makes a non-controlling minority equity investment in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that maintains and collects sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens. In connection with the investment, the U.S. citizen is afforded the right to be involved in substantive decisionmaking regarding the release of sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens maintained by Corporation X. The transaction is a covered transaction.
Note 1 to § 800.213:
Any transaction described in (a) through (d) of this section that arises pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding or other form of default on debt is a covered transaction. See also § 800.306 for the treatment of certain lending transactions.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]]

§ 800.214   Critical infrastructure.

The term critical infrastructure means, in the context of a particular covered control transaction, systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems or assets would have a debilitating impact on national security.
critical infrastructure
means, in the context of a particular covered control transaction, systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to the United States that the incapacity or destruction of such systems or assets would have a debilitating impact on national security.

§ 800.215   Critical technologies.

The term critical technologies means the following:
critical technologies
means the following:
(a) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States Munitions List (USML) set forth in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120-130);
(b) Items included on the Commerce Control List (CCL) set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR parts 730-774), and controlled—
(1) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating to national security, chemical and biological weapons proliferation, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or
(2) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious listening;
(c) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810 (relating to assistance to foreign atomic energy activities);
(d) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by 10 CFR part 110 (relating to export and import of nuclear equipment and material);
(e) Select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, or 42 CFR part 73; and
(f) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4817).

§ 800.216   Encrypted data.

The term encrypted data means data to which National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)-allowed cryptographic techniques, as identified in the most current NIST special publication 800-175B, or superseding publication, have been applied.
encrypted data
means data to which National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)-allowed cryptographic techniques, as identified in the most current NIST special publication 800-175B, or superseding publication, have been applied.

§ 800.217   Entity.

The term entity means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state); assets (whether or not organized as a separate legal entity) operated by any one of the foregoing as a business undertaking in a particular location or for particular products or services; and any government (including a foreign national or subnational government, the U.S. Government, a subnational government within the United States, and any of their respective departments, agencies, or instrumentalities). (See examples in § 800.301(g)(5) through (14) and § 800.302(g)(5) through (10).)
entity
means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state); assets (whether or not organized as a separate legal entity) operated by any one of the foregoing as a business undertaking in a particular location or for particular products or services; and any government (including a foreign national or subnational government, the U.S. Government, a subnational government within the United States, and any of their respective departments, agencies, or instrumentalities). (See examples in § 800.301(g)(5) through (14) and § 800.302(g)(5) through (10).)

§ 800.218   Excepted foreign state.

The term excepted foreign state means, until February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section, and, beginning on February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets both the criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
excepted foreign state
means, until February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section, and, beginning on February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets both the criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(a) Is identified by the Committee as an eligible foreign state, and
(b) Is a foreign state for which the Committee has made a determination under § 800.1001(a).
Note 1 to § 800.218:
The name of each foreign state identified by the Committee as an eligible foreign state will be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website. See § 800.1001(c) regarding the publication of a notice in the Federal Register of a determination under § 800.1001(a). The list of excepted foreign states will also be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
Federal Register
of a determination under § 800.1001(a). The list of excepted foreign states will also be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 732, Feb. 4, 2022]]

§ 800.219   Excepted investor.

(a) The term excepted investor means a foreign person who is, as of the completion date of the transaction and subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:
excepted investor
means a foreign person who is, as of the completion date of the transaction and subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:
(1) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted foreign state;
(2) A foreign government of an excepted foreign state; or
(3) An entity that meets each of the following conditions with respect to itself and each of its parents (if any):
(i) Such entity is organized under the laws of an excepted foreign state or in the United States;
(ii) Such entity has its principal place of business in an excepted foreign state or in the United States;
(iii) Seventy-five percent or more of the members and 75 percent or more of the observers of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such entity are:
(A) U.S. nationals; or
(B) Nationals of one or more excepted foreign states who are not also nationals of any foreign state that is not an excepted foreign state;
(iv) Any foreign person that individually, and each foreign person that is part of a group of foreign persons that in the aggregate, holds 10 percent or more of the outstanding voting interest of such entity; holds the right to 10 percent or more of the profits of such entity; holds the right in the event of dissolution to 10 percent or more of the assets of such entity; or otherwise could exercise control over such entity, is:
(A) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted foreign state;
(B) A foreign government of an excepted foreign state; or
(C) An entity that is organized under the laws of an excepted foreign state or in the United States and has its principal place of business in an excepted foreign state or in the United States; and
(v) The minimum excepted ownership of such entity is held, individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons each of whom is:
(A) Not a foreign person;
(B) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted foreign state;
(C) A foreign government of an excepted foreign state; or
(D) An entity that is organized under the laws of an excepted foreign state or in the United States and has its principal place of business in an excepted foreign state or in the United States.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, foreign persons who are related, have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or are agencies or instrumentalities of, or controlled by, the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state are considered part of a group of foreign persons and their individual ownerships are aggregated.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a foreign person is not an excepted investor with respect to a transaction if:
(1) In the five years prior to the completion date of the transaction the foreign person, any of its parents, or any entity of which it is a parent:
(i) Has received written notice from the Committee that it has submitted a material misstatement or omission in a notice or declaration or made a false certification under this part or part 801 or 802 of this title;
(ii) Has received written notice from the Committee that it has violated a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into with, material condition imposed by, or an order issued by, the Committee or a lead agency under section 721(l);
(iii) Has been subject to action by the President under section 721(d);
(iv) Has:
(A) Received a written Finding of Violation or Penalty Notice imposing a civil monetary penalty from the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC); or
(B) Entered into a settlement agreement with OFAC with respect to apparent violations of U.S. sanctions laws administered by OFAC, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Trading With the Enemy Act, the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, each as amended, or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
(v) Has received a written notice of debarment from the Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, as described in 22 CFR parts 127 and 128;
(vi) Has been a respondent or party in a final order, including a settlement order, issued by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) regarding violations of U.S. export control laws administered by BIS, including the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.), the EAR, or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
et seq.
), the EAR, or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
(vii) Has received a final decision from the Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration imposing a civil penalty with respect to a violation of section 57b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as implemented under 10 CFR part 810; or
(viii) Has been convicted of, or has entered into a deferred prosecution agreement or non-prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice with respect to, any felony in any jurisdiction within the United States; or
(2) The foreign person, any of its parents, or any entity of which it is a parent is, on the date on which the parties to the transaction first execute a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction, listed on either the BIS Unverified List or Entity List in 15 CFR part 744.
(d) Irrespective of whether the foreign person satisfies the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section as of the completion date, if at any time during the three-year period following the completion date, the foreign person no longer meets all the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, the foreign person is not an excepted investor with respect to the transaction from the completion date onward. This paragraph does not apply when an excepted investor no longer meets any of the criteria solely due to a rescission of a determination under § 800.1001(b) or if the relevant foreign state otherwise ceases to be an excepted foreign state.
(e) A foreign person may waive its status as an excepted investor with respect to a transaction at any time by submitting a declaration under § 800.403 or filing a notice under § 800.501 regarding the transaction in which it explicitly waives such status. In such case, the foreign person will be deemed not to be an excepted investor with respect to the transaction and the relevant provisions of subpart D or E will apply.
Note 1 to § 800.219:
See § 800.501(c)(2) regarding an agency notice where a foreign person is not an excepted investor solely due to § 800.219(d).
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020; 85 FR 8747, Feb. 18, 2020]]

§ 800.220   Foreign entity.

(a) The term foreign entity means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization organized under the laws of a foreign state if either its principal place of business is outside the United States or its equity securities are primarily traded on one or more foreign exchanges.
foreign entity
means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization organized under the laws of a foreign state if either its principal place of business is outside the United States or its equity securities are primarily traded on one or more foreign exchanges.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization that can demonstrate that a majority of the equity interest in such entity is ultimately owned by U.S. nationals is not a foreign entity.

§ 800.221   Foreign government.

The term foreign government means any government or body exercising governmental functions, other than the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States. The term includes, but is not limited to, national and subnational governments, including their respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities.
foreign government
means any government or body exercising governmental functions, other than the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States. The term includes, but is not limited to, national and subnational governments, including their respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities.

§ 800.222   Foreign government-controlled transaction.

The term foreign government-controlled transaction means any covered control transaction that could result in control of a U.S. business by a foreign government or a person controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government.
foreign government-controlled transaction
means any covered control transaction that could result in control of a U.S. business by a foreign government or a person controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government.

§ 800.223   Foreign national.

The term foreign national means any individual other than a U.S. national.
foreign national
means any individual other than a U.S. national.

§ 800.224   Foreign person.

(a) The term foreign person means:
foreign person
means:
(1) Any foreign national, foreign government, or foreign entity; or
(2) Any entity over which control is exercised or exercisable by a foreign national, foreign government, or foreign entity.
(b) Any entity over which control is exercised or exercisable by a foreign person is a foreign person.
(c) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is engaged in business only outside the United States. All of its shares are held by Corporation X, which solely controls Corporation A. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A, although organized and operating only outside the United States, is not a foreign entity due to § 800.220(b) and is not a foreign person.
Example 1.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is engaged in business only outside the United States. All of its shares are held by Corporation X, which solely controls Corporation A. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A, although organized and operating only outside the United States, is not a foreign entity due to § 800.220(b) and is not a foreign person.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the first sentence of the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The government of the foreign state under whose laws Corporation A is organized exercises control over Corporation A because a law establishing Corporation A gives the foreign state the right to appoint Corporation A's board members. Corporation A is a foreign person.
Example 2.
Same facts as the first sentence of the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The government of the foreign state under whose laws Corporation A is organized exercises control over Corporation A because a law establishing Corporation A gives the foreign state the right to appoint Corporation A's board members. Corporation A is a foreign person.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A is organized in the United States, is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, and is controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized under the laws of a foreign state, its principal place of business is located outside the United States, and 50 percent of its shares are held by foreign nationals and 50 percent of its shares are held by U.S. nationals. Both Corporation A and Corporation X are foreign persons. Corporation A is also a U.S. business.
Example 3.
Corporation A is organized in the United States, is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, and is controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized under the laws of a foreign state, its principal place of business is located outside the United States, and 50 percent of its shares are held by foreign nationals and 50 percent of its shares are held by U.S. nationals. Both Corporation A and Corporation X are foreign persons. Corporation A is also a U.S. business.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is owned and controlled by a foreign national. A branch of Corporation A engages in interstate commerce in the United States. Corporation A (including its branch) is a foreign person. The branch is also a U.S. business.
Example 4.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is owned and controlled by a foreign national. A branch of Corporation A engages in interstate commerce in the United States. Corporation A (including its branch) is a foreign person. The branch is also a U.S. business.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and its principal place of business is located outside the United States. Forty-five percent of the equity interest in Corporation A is owned in equal shares by numerous unrelated foreign investors, none of whom has control. The foreign investors have no formal or informal arrangement with any other holder of equity interest in Corporation A to act in concert regarding Corporation A. Corporation A can demonstrate that the remainder of the equity interest in Corporation A is ultimately held by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity or foreign person.
Example 5.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and its principal place of business is located outside the United States. Forty-five percent of the equity interest in Corporation A is owned in equal shares by numerous unrelated foreign investors, none of whom has control. The foreign investors have no formal or informal arrangement with any other holder of equity interest in Corporation A to act in concert regarding Corporation A. Corporation A can demonstrate that the remainder of the equity interest in Corporation A is ultimately held by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity or foreign person.
(6) Example 6. Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, except that one of the foreign investors, a foreign national, controls Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity due to § 800.220(b), but it is a foreign person under paragraph (a)(2) of this section because it is controlled by a foreign national.
Example 6.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, except that one of the foreign investors, a foreign national, controls Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity due to § 800.220(b), but it is a foreign person under paragraph (a)(2) of this section because it is controlled by a foreign national.

§ 800.225   Hold.

The terms hold(s) and holding mean legal or beneficial ownership, whether direct or indirect, whether through fiduciaries, agents, or other means.
hold(s)
and
holding
mean legal or beneficial ownership, whether direct or indirect, whether through fiduciaries, agents, or other means.

§ 800.226   Identifiable data.

The term identifiable data means data that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, including through the use of any personal identifier. Aggregated data or anonymized data is identifiable data if any party to the transaction has, or as a result of the transaction will have, the ability to disaggregate or de-anonymize the data, or if the data is otherwise capable of being used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity. Identifiable data does not include encrypted data, unless the U.S. business that maintains or collects the encrypted data has the means to de-encrypt the data so as to distinguish or trace an individual's identity.
identifiable data
means data that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, including through the use of any personal identifier. Aggregated data or anonymized data is identifiable data if any party to the transaction has, or as a result of the transaction will have, the ability to disaggregate or de-anonymize the data, or if the data is otherwise capable of being used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity. Identifiable data does not include encrypted data, unless the U.S. business that maintains or collects the encrypted data has the means to de-encrypt the data so as to distinguish or trace an individual's identity.

§ 800.227   Investment.

The term investment means the acquisition of equity interest, including contingent equity interest.
investment
means the acquisition of equity interest, including contingent equity interest.

§ 800.228   Investment fund.

The term investment fund means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.), or would be an “investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.
investment fund
means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), or would be an “investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.

§ 800.229   Involvement.

The term involvement means the right or ability to participate, whether or not exercised, including by doing any of the following:
involvement
means the right or ability to participate, whether or not exercised, including by doing any of the following:
(a) Providing input into a final decision;
(b) Consulting with or providing advice to a decisionmaker;
(c) Exercising special approval or veto rights;
(d) Participating on a committee with decisionmaking authority; or
(e) Advising on the appointment officers or selecting employees who are engaged in substantive decisionmaking.

§ 800.230   Lead agency.

The term lead agency means the Department of the Treasury and any other agency designated by the Chairperson of the Committee to have primary responsibility, on behalf of the Committee, for the specific activity for which the Chairperson designates it as a lead agency, including all or a portion of an assessment, a review, an investigation, or the negotiation or monitoring of a mitigation agreement or condition.
lead agency
means the Department of the Treasury and any other agency designated by the Chairperson of the Committee to have primary responsibility, on behalf of the Committee, for the specific activity for which the Chairperson designates it as a lead agency, including all or a portion of an assessment, a review, an investigation, or the negotiation or monitoring of a mitigation agreement or condition.

§ 800.231   Manufacture.

Solely for the purposes of column 2 of appendix A to this part, the term manufacture means to produce or reproduce, whether physically or virtually.
manufacture
means to produce or reproduce, whether physically or virtually.

§ 800.232   Material nonpublic technical information.

(a) The term material nonpublic technical information means information that:
material nonpublic technical information
means information that:
(1) Provides knowledge, know-how, or understanding, in each case not available in the public domain, of the design, location, or operation of covered investment critical infrastructure, including vulnerability information such as that related to physical security or cybersecurity; or
(2) Is not available in the public domain and is necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture a critical technology, including processes, techniques, or methods.
(b) The term material nonpublic technical information does not include financial information regarding the performance of an entity.
material nonpublic technical information
does not include financial information regarding the performance of an entity.
(c) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is a U.S. business that services an industrial control system utilized by an interstate oil pipeline that has the capacity to transport 600,000 barrels per day of crude oil (ICS B). ICS B is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. The source code for ICS B is not available in the public domain. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A will have access to the source code for ICS B. The proposed investment therefore affords Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B regarding the design and operation of covered investment critical infrastructure.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is a U.S. business that services an industrial control system utilized by an interstate oil pipeline that has the capacity to transport 600,000 barrels per day of crude oil (ICS B). ICS B is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. The source code for ICS B is not available in the public domain. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A will have access to the source code for ICS B. The proposed investment therefore affords Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B regarding the design and operation of covered investment critical infrastructure.
(2) Example 2. Fund A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a five percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that develops a critical technology (Technology Z). Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation B will notify Fund A when it achieves the developmental milestone of completing a demonstration prototype of Technology Z. The notification will only set out the milestone achieved and will not include technical details. Assuming no other facts, the proposed investment does not afford Fund A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture a critical technology.
Example 2.
Fund A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a five percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that develops a critical technology (Technology Z). Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation B will notify Fund A when it achieves the developmental milestone of completing a demonstration prototype of Technology Z. The notification will only set out the milestone achieved and will not include technical details. Assuming no other facts, the proposed investment does not afford Fund A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture a critical technology.

§ 800.233   Minimum excepted ownership.

The term minimum excepted ownership means:
minimum excepted ownership
means:
(a) With respect to an entity whose equity securities are primarily traded on an exchange in an excepted foreign state or the United States, a majority of its voting interest, the right to a majority of its profits, and the right in the event of dissolution to a majority of its assets; and
(b) With respect to an entity whose equity securities are not primarily traded on an exchange in an excepted foreign state or the United States, 80 percent or more of its voting interest, the right to 80 percent or more of its profits, and the right in the event of dissolution to 80 percent or more of its assets.

§ 800.234   Own.

Solely for the purposes of column 2 of appendix A to this part, the term own means to directly possess the applicable covered investment critical infrastructure.
own
means to directly possess the applicable covered investment critical infrastructure.

§ 800.235   Parent.

(a) The term parent means, with respect to an entity:
parent
means, with respect to an entity:
(1) A person who or which directly or indirectly:
(i) Holds or will hold at least 50 percent of the outstanding voting interest in the entity; or
(ii) Holds or will hold the right to at least 50 percent of the profits of the entity, or has or will have the right in the event of dissolution to at least 50 percent of the assets of the entity; or
(2) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
(b) Any entity that meets the conditions of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section with respect to another entity (i.e., the intermediate parent) is also a parent of any other entity of which the intermediate parent is a parent.
i.e.,
the intermediate parent) is also a parent of any other entity of which the intermediate parent is a parent.
(c) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation P holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporations R and S; Corporation R holds 40 percent of the voting interest in Corporation X; and Corporation S holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Y, which in turn holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Z. Corporation P is a parent of Corporations R, S, Y, and Z, but not of Corporation X. Corporation S is a parent of Corporation Y and Z, and Corporation Y is a parent of Corporation Z.
Example 1.
Corporation P holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporations R and S; Corporation R holds 40 percent of the voting interest in Corporation X; and Corporation S holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Y, which in turn holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Z. Corporation P is a parent of Corporations R, S, Y, and Z, but not of Corporation X. Corporation S is a parent of Corporation Y and Z, and Corporation Y is a parent of Corporation Z.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A holds warrants which when exercised will entitle it to vote 50 percent of the outstanding shares of Corporation B. Corporation A is a parent of Corporation B.
Example 2.
Corporation A holds warrants which when exercised will entitle it to vote 50 percent of the outstanding shares of Corporation B. Corporation A is a parent of Corporation B.
(3) Example 3. Investor A holds 60 percent of the outstanding voting interest in Corporation B. Investor C holds the right to 80 percent of the profits of Corporation B. Each of Investor A and Investor C is a parent of Corporation B.
Example 3.
Investor A holds 60 percent of the outstanding voting interest in Corporation B. Investor C holds the right to 80 percent of the profits of Corporation B. Each of Investor A and Investor C is a parent of Corporation B.

§ 800.236   Party to a transaction.

(a) The term party to a transaction means:
party to a transaction
means:
(1) In the case of an acquisition of an ownership interest in an entity, the person acquiring the ownership interest, the person from whom such ownership interest is acquired, and the entity whose ownership interest is being acquired, without regard to any person providing brokerage or underwriting services for the transaction;
(2) In the case of a merger, the surviving entity, and the entity or entities that are merged with or into that entity in the transaction;
(3) In the case of a consolidation, the entities being consolidated, and the new consolidated entity;
(4) In the case of a proxy solicitation, the person soliciting proxies, and the person who issued the voting interest;
(5) In the case of the acquisition or conversion of contingent equity interests, the issuer and the person holding the contingent equity interests;
(6) In the case of a change in rights that a person has with respect to an entity in which that person has an investment, the person whose rights change as a result of the transaction and the entity to which those rights apply;
(7) In the case of any other transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement, the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of section 721, any person that participates in such transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement;
(8) In the case of any other type of transaction, any person who is in a role comparable to that of a person described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section; and
(9) In all cases, each party that submitted a declaration or notice to the Committee regarding a transaction.
(b) For purposes of section 721(l), the term party to a transaction includes any affiliate of any party described in paragraph (a) of this section that the Committee, or a lead agency acting on behalf of the Committee, determines is relevant to mitigating a risk to the national security of the United States.
party to a transaction
includes any affiliate of any party described in paragraph (a) of this section that the Committee, or a lead agency acting on behalf of the Committee, determines is relevant to mitigating a risk to the national security of the United States.

§ 800.237   Person.

The term person means any individual or entity.
person
means any individual or entity.

§ 800.238   Personal identifier.

The term personal identifier means name, physical address, email address, social security number, phone number, or other information that identifies a specific individual.
personal identifier
means name, physical address, email address, social security number, phone number, or other information that identifies a specific individual.

§ 800.239   Principal place of business.

(a) The term principal place of business means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.
principal place of business
means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.
(b) If the location determined under paragraph (a) of this section is in the United States and the entity has represented to the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States or any foreign government, in the most recent submission or filing to such government (other than a submission or filing to the Committee) in which the entity has identified its principal place of business, principal office and place of business, address of principal executive offices, address of headquarters, or equivalent, that any of the foregoing is outside the United States, then the location identified in such submission or filing is deemed for purposes of this definition to be the entity's principal place of business unless the entity can demonstrate that such location has changed to the United States since such submission or filing.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 45313, July 28, 2020]]

§ 800.240   Section 721.

The term section 721 means section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565).
section 721
means section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565).

§ 800.241   Sensitive personal data.

(a) The term sensitive personal data means, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section:
sensitive personal data
means, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Identifiable data that is:
(i) Maintained or collected by a U.S. business that:
(A) Targets or tailors products or services to any U.S. executive branch agency or military department with intelligence, national security, or homeland security responsibilities, or to personnel and contractors thereof;
(B) Has maintained or collected any identifiable data within one or more categories described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on greater than one million individuals at any point over the twelve (12) months preceding the earliest of the completion date, the date of any of the events described in § 800.104(b)(2) through (4) (as applicable), or the date of filing of a written notice or submission of a declaration, unless the U.S. business can demonstrate that at the time of the completion date of the transaction it had or will have neither the capability to maintain nor the capability to collect any identifiable data within one or more categories described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on greater than one million individuals; or
(C) Has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect any identifiable data within one or more categories described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on greater than one million individuals and such data is an integrated part of the U.S. business's primary products or services; and
(ii) Within any of the following categories:
(A) Financial data that could be used to analyze or determine an individual's financial distress or hardship;
(B) The set of data in a consumer report, as defined under 15 U.S.C. 1681a, unless such data is obtained from a consumer reporting agency for one or more purposes identified in 15 U.S.C. 1681b(a) and such data is not substantially similar to the full contents of a consumer file as defined under 15 U.S.C. 1681a;
(C) The set of data in an application for health insurance, long-term care insurance, professional liability insurance, mortgage insurance, or life insurance;
(D) Data relating to the physical, mental, or psychological health condition of an individual;
(E) Non-public electronic communications, including email, messaging, or chat communications, between or among users of a U.S. business's products or services if a primary purpose of such product or service is to facilitate third-party user communications;
(F) Geolocation data collected using positioning systems, cell phone towers, or WiFi access points such as via a mobile application, vehicle GPS, other onboard mapping tool, or wearable electronic device;
(G) Biometric enrollment data including facial, voice, retina/iris, and palm/fingerprint templates;
(H) Data stored and processed for generating a state or federal government identification card;
(I) Data concerning U.S. Government personnel security clearance status; or
(J) The set of data in an application for a U.S. Government personnel security clearance or an application for employment in a position of public trust; and
(2) The results of an individual's genetic tests, including any related genetic sequencing data, whenever such results constitute identifiable data. Such results shall not include data derived from databases maintained by the U.S. Government and routinely provided to private parties for purposes of research. For purposes of this paragraph, “genetic test” shall have the meaning provided in 42 U.S.C. 300gg-91(d)(17).
(b) The term sensitive personal data shall not include, regardless of the applicability of the criteria described in paragraph (a) of this section:
sensitive personal data
shall not include, regardless of the applicability of the criteria described in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Data maintained or collected by a U.S. business concerning the employees of that U.S. business, unless the data pertains to employees of U.S. Government contractors who hold U.S. Government personnel security clearances; or
(2) Data that is a matter of public record, such as court records or other government records that are generally available to the public.
(c) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a U.S. business, periodically collects geolocation data as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(F) of this section on its customers for marketing and customer experience purposes. Corporation A maintains the geolocation data for a short period, then purges the data from its systems. When Corporation A and a foreign person notify the Committee of a transaction, Corporation A maintains the geolocation data of only 200,000 individuals. However, in the 12 months prior to filing the notification to the Committee, Corporation A has collected the geolocation data of greater than one million individuals. Because Corporation A collected the geolocation data of greater than one million individuals in the 12 months prior to the filing date of the notice, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, periodically collects geolocation data as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(F) of this section on its customers for marketing and customer experience purposes. Corporation A maintains the geolocation data for a short period, then purges the data from its systems. When Corporation A and a foreign person notify the Committee of a transaction, Corporation A maintains the geolocation data of only 200,000 individuals. However, in the 12 months prior to filing the notification to the Committee, Corporation A has collected the geolocation data of greater than one million individuals. Because Corporation A collected the geolocation data of greater than one million individuals in the 12 months prior to the filing date of the notice, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A, a U.S. business, collects data relating to physical health conditions as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) from new customers, which numbered fewer than one million over the 12 months prior to executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person. Under its data retention policy, Corporation A maintains the health data for a long period of time. Accordingly, Corporation A maintains the health data from new customers (those from whom the data was collected in the previous 12 months) and older customers (those from whom the data was collected in prior years). In total, Corporation A maintains the health data of three million individuals. Because Corporation A maintains health data of greater than one million individuals, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, collects data relating to physical health conditions as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) from new customers, which numbered fewer than one million over the 12 months prior to executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person. Under its data retention policy, Corporation A maintains the health data for a long period of time. Accordingly, Corporation A maintains the health data from new customers (those from whom the data was collected in the previous 12 months) and older customers (those from whom the data was collected in prior years). In total, Corporation A maintains the health data of three million individuals. Because Corporation A maintains health data of greater than one million individuals, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(3) Example 3. Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, except that, under its data retention policy, the number of individuals for whom Corporation A maintains the health data fluctuates. Over the 12 months prior to executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person, Corporation A usually maintained the health data of 900,000 individuals. However, at one point during the prior 12 months, it maintained the health data of 1,100,000 individuals. Corporation A currently maintains the health data of fewer than one million individuals. Because Corporation A maintained the health data of greater than one million individuals during the 12 months prior to executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
Example 3.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, except that, under its data retention policy, the number of individuals for whom Corporation A maintains the health data fluctuates. Over the 12 months prior to executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person, Corporation A usually maintained the health data of 900,000 individuals. However, at one point during the prior 12 months, it maintained the health data of 1,100,000 individuals. Corporation A currently maintains the health data of fewer than one million individuals. Because Corporation A maintained the health data of greater than one million individuals during the 12 months prior to executing a definitive binding agreement to be acquired by a foreign person, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A, a U.S. business, maintains data under multiple categories in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on over one million individuals. Specifically, Corporation A maintains financial data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section on 400,000 individuals, and health data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) of this section on another 700,000 individuals. Because Corporation A maintains the data described in the categories in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) on greater than one million individuals, despite not maintaining or collecting data of greater than one million individuals in any one category, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
Example 4.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, maintains data under multiple categories in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section on over one million individuals. Specifically, Corporation A maintains financial data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section on 400,000 individuals, and health data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) of this section on another 700,000 individuals. Because Corporation A maintains the data described in the categories in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) on greater than one million individuals, despite not maintaining or collecting data of greater than one million individuals in any one category, it meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a U.S. business, is a start-up mobile mapping venture that has maintained or collected geolocation data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(F) of this section on substantially fewer than one million individual subscribers over the 12 months prior to completing a transaction with a foreign person. The geolocation data is an integrated part of Corporation A's primary product, mobile mapping services. Corporation A, in connection with attempting to secure an additional round of financing, has prepared and distributed to potential investors pitch materials that include Corporation A's projection that, within the next two years, it will have greater than one million active individual subscribers. Corporation A also has made plans to substantially increase its workforce and enhance its IT infrastructure in anticipation of obtaining the additional subscribers. Corporation A meets the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(i)(C) of this section of having a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect data described in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (J) of this section on greater than one million individuals.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, is a start-up mobile mapping venture that has maintained or collected geolocation data described by paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(F) of this section on substantially fewer than one million individual subscribers over the 12 months prior to completing a transaction with a foreign person. The geolocation data is an integrated part of Corporation A's primary product, mobile mapping services. Corporation A, in connection with attempting to secure an additional round of financing, has prepared and distributed to potential investors pitch materials that include Corporation A's projection that, within the next two years, it will have greater than one million active individual subscribers. Corporation A also has made plans to substantially increase its workforce and enhance its IT infrastructure in anticipation of obtaining the additional subscribers. Corporation A meets the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(i)(C) of this section of having a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect data described in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (J) of this section on greater than one million individuals.

§ 800.242   Service.

Solely for the purposes of column 2 of appendix A to this part, the term service means to repair, maintain, refurbish, replace, overhaul, or update.
service
means to repair, maintain, refurbish, replace, overhaul, or update.

§ 800.243   Solely for the purpose of passive investment.

(a) Ownership interests are held or acquired solely for the purpose of passive investment if the person holding or acquiring such interests does not plan or intend to exercise control and—
solely for the purpose of passive investment
if the person holding or acquiring such interests does not plan or intend to exercise control and—
(1) Is not afforded any rights that if exercised would constitute control;
(2) Does not acquire any access, rights, or involvement specified § 800.211(b);
(3) Does not possess or develop any purpose other than passive investment; and
(4) Does not take any action inconsistent with holding or acquiring such interests solely for the purpose of passive investment. (See § 800.302(b).)
(b) Example: Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a voting interest in Corporation B, a U.S. business. In addition to the voting interest, Corporation A negotiates the right to appoint a member of Corporation B's board of directors. The acquisition by Corporation A of a voting interest in Corporation B is not solely for the purpose of passive investment.

§ 800.244   Substantial interest.

(a) The term substantial interest means, in the context of an acquisition of an interest in a U.S. business by a foreign person, a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 25 percent or more, and, in the context of a foreign person in which the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state have an interest, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 49 percent or more.
substantial interest
means, in the context of an acquisition of an interest in a U.S. business by a foreign person, a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 25 percent or more, and, in the context of a foreign person in which the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state have an interest, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 49 percent or more.
(b) In the case of an entity whose activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of a general partner, managing member, or equivalent, the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state will be considered to have a substantial interest in such entity only if they hold 49 percent or more of the interest in the general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
a substantial interest
in such entity only if they hold 49 percent or more of the interest in the general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
(c) For purposes of determining the percentage of interest held indirectly by one entity in another entity under this section, any interest of a parent will be deemed to be a 100 percent interest in any entity of which it is a parent.
(d) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, plans to acquire a 30 percent voting interest in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Corporation B holds 51 percent of the voting interest in, and is a parent of, Corporation A. A foreign government holds 75 percent of the voting interest in Corporation B, and private, non-government controlled individuals hold the remaining 25 percent. Under paragraph (c) of this section, Corporation B is deemed to have 100 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A because it is Corporation A's parent, and therefore the foreign government's indirect voting interest in Corporation A is imputed to be 75 percent. Corporation A is acquiring a substantial interest in Corporation X, and a foreign government has a substantial interest in Corporation A.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, plans to acquire a 30 percent voting interest in Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Corporation B holds 51 percent of the voting interest in, and is a parent of, Corporation A. A foreign government holds 75 percent of the voting interest in Corporation B, and private, non-government controlled individuals hold the remaining 25 percent. Under paragraph (c) of this section, Corporation B is deemed to have 100 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A because it is Corporation A's parent, and therefore the foreign government's indirect voting interest in Corporation A is imputed to be 75 percent. Corporation A is acquiring a substantial interest in Corporation X, and a foreign government has a substantial interest in Corporation A.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that Corporation B holds only 49 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A and is not Corporation A's parent. Because Corporation B is not a parent of Corporation A, paragraph (c) of this section is not applicable. The foreign government's indirect voting interest in Corporation A for purposes of this section is only 36.75 percent. Corporation A is acquiring a substantial interest in Corporation X; however, the foreign government does not have a substantial interest in Corporation A.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that Corporation B holds only 49 percent of the voting interest in Corporation A and is not Corporation A's parent. Because Corporation B is not a parent of Corporation A, paragraph (c) of this section is not applicable. The foreign government's indirect voting interest in Corporation A for purposes of this section is only 36.75 percent. Corporation A is acquiring a substantial interest in Corporation X; however, the foreign government does not have a substantial interest in Corporation A.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]]

§ 800.245   Substantive decisionmaking.

(a) The term substantive decisionmaking means the process through which decisions regarding significant matters affecting an entity are undertaken, including, as applicable:
substantive decisionmaking
means the process through which decisions regarding significant matters affecting an entity are undertaken, including, as applicable:
(1) Pricing, sales, and specific contracts, including the license, sale, or transfer of sensitive personal data to any third party, including pursuant to a customer, vendor, or joint venture agreement;
(2) Supply arrangements;
(3) Corporate strategy and business development;
(4) Research and development, including location and budget allocation;
(5) Manufacturing locations;
(6) Access to critical technologies, covered investment critical infrastructure, material nonpublic technical information, or sensitive personal data, including pursuant to a customer, vendor, or joint venture agreement;
(7) Physical and cyber security protocols, including the storage and protection of critical technologies, covered investment critical infrastructure, or sensitive personal data;
(8) Practices, policies, and procedures governing the collection, use, or storage of sensitive personal data, including:
(i) The establishment or maintenance of, or changes to, the architecture of information technology systems and networks used in collecting or maintaining sensitive personal data; or
(ii) Privacy policies and agreements for individuals from whom sensitive personal data is collected setting forth parameters regarding whether and how sensitive personal data may be collected, maintained, accessed, or disseminated; or
(9) Strategic partnerships.
(b) The term substantive decisionmaking does not include strictly administrative decisions.
substantive decisionmaking
does not include strictly administrative decisions.
(c) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that operates a container terminal at a strategic seaport within the National Port Readiness Network (Terminal B). Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A will have approval rights over which customers may utilize Terminal B. The proposed investment therefore affords Corporation A involvement in substantive decisionmaking of Corporation B regarding the management, operation, manufacture, or supply of covered investment critical infrastructure.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that operates a container terminal at a strategic seaport within the National Port Readiness Network (Terminal B). Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A will have approval rights over which customers may utilize Terminal B. The proposed investment therefore affords Corporation A involvement in substantive decisionmaking of Corporation B regarding the management, operation, manufacture, or supply of covered investment critical infrastructure.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that instead of customer approval rights, Corporation A has the right to decide whether to claim certain tax credits with respect to Terminal B on its own income tax filing, which prevents Corporation B from claiming such credits. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed investment does not afford Corporation A involvement in substantive decisionmaking of Corporation B regarding the management, operation, manufacture, or supply of covered investment critical infrastructure.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that instead of customer approval rights, Corporation A has the right to decide whether to claim certain tax credits with respect to Terminal B on its own income tax filing, which prevents Corporation B from claiming such credits. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed investment does not afford Corporation A involvement in substantive decisionmaking of Corporation B regarding the management, operation, manufacture, or supply of covered investment critical infrastructure.

§ 800.246   Supply.

Solely for the purposes of column 2 of appendix A to this part, the term supply means to provide third-party physical or cyber security.
supply
means to provide third-party physical or cyber security.

§ 800.247   Targets or tailors.

(a) The term targets or tailors means customizing products or services for use by a person or group of persons or actively marketing to or soliciting a person or group of persons.
targets or tailors
means customizing products or services for use by a person or group of persons or actively marketing to or soliciting a person or group of persons.
(b) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a U.S. business, operates facilities throughout the United States that offer healthcare-related products and services. Some of Corporation A's facilities are located within metropolitan areas that also include U.S. military facilities. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not target or tailor its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
Example 1.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, operates facilities throughout the United States that offer healthcare-related products and services. Some of Corporation A's facilities are located within metropolitan areas that also include U.S. military facilities. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not target or tailor its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A operates a facility on the premises of a U.S. military facility. Corporation A targets or tailors its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A operates a facility on the premises of a U.S. military facility. Corporation A targets or tailors its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a U.S. business, offers a discount to all customers that are employed in the public sector broadly, including active duty U.S. military personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not target or tailor its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
Example 3.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, offers a discount to all customers that are employed in the public sector broadly, including active duty U.S. military personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not target or tailor its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
(4) Example 4. Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, except that Corporation A offers a discount solely to uniformed U.S. military personnel and distributes marketing materials that promote the particular usefulness of Corporation A's products to military personnel. Corporation A targets or tailors its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).
Example 4.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, except that Corporation A offers a discount solely to uniformed U.S. military personnel and distributes marketing materials that promote the particular usefulness of Corporation A's products to military personnel. Corporation A targets or tailors its products or services for purposes of § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(A).

§ 800.248   TID U.S. business.

The term TID U.S. business means any U.S. business that:
TID U.S. business
means any U.S. business that:
(a) Produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops one or more critical technologies;
(b) Performs the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure; or
(c) Maintains or collects, directly or indirectly, sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens.
(d) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a U.S. business, operates a munitions plant in the United States that produces a variety of military grade explosives. Some of the explosives manufactured by Corporation A are listed on the USML. Corporation A manufactures critical technologies and is therefore a TID U.S. business.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, operates a munitions plant in the United States that produces a variety of military grade explosives. Some of the explosives manufactured by Corporation A are listed on the USML. Corporation A manufactures critical technologies and is therefore a TID U.S. business.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A, a U.S. business, produces an item (Item A) by purchasing various components from third-party suppliers and integrating them into Item A. One of these components (Component X) is a critical technology, but Item A is not a critical technology. Before integrating Component X into Item A, Corporation A merely verifies the fit and form of Component X solely as part of Item A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not test critical technologies and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, produces an item (Item A) by purchasing various components from third-party suppliers and integrating them into Item A. One of these components (Component X) is a critical technology, but Item A is not a critical technology. Before integrating Component X into Item A, Corporation A merely verifies the fit and form of Component X solely as part of Item A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A does not test critical technologies and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A is a U.S. business that owns intellectual property rights and equipment for manufacturing a critical technology and maintains the know-how to manufacture that critical technology. It has been six months since Corporation A manufactured the critical technology. Because Corporation A retains the ability to manufacture the critical technology, Corporation A is a TID U.S. business.
Example 3.
Corporation A is a U.S. business that owns intellectual property rights and equipment for manufacturing a critical technology and maintains the know-how to manufacture that critical technology. It has been six months since Corporation A manufactured the critical technology. Because Corporation A retains the ability to manufacture the critical technology, Corporation A is a TID U.S. business.
(4) Example 4. Facility A is a crude oil storage facility with the capacity to hold 50 million barrels of crude oil. Corporation A is a U.S. business that operates Facility A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that provides third-party physical security to Facility A by guarding the gate to Facility A and patrolling the fence surrounding Facility A. Corporation C produces the fencing used by Facility A. Corporation D produces the commercially available off-the-shelf cyber security software utilized in Facility A. Corporation E provides third-party cyber security to Facility A by running Facility A's cyber security defenses. Facility A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, Corporation B, and Corporation E each perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Facility A, and each is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, neither Corporation C nor Corporation D performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Facility A, and neither is therefore a TID U.S. business.
Example 4.
Facility A is a crude oil storage facility with the capacity to hold 50 million barrels of crude oil. Corporation A is a U.S. business that operates Facility A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that provides third-party physical security to Facility A by guarding the gate to Facility A and patrolling the fence surrounding Facility A. Corporation C produces the fencing used by Facility A. Corporation D produces the commercially available off-the-shelf cyber security software utilized in Facility A. Corporation E provides third-party cyber security to Facility A by running Facility A's cyber security defenses. Facility A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, Corporation B, and Corporation E each perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Facility A, and each is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, neither Corporation C nor Corporation D performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Facility A, and neither is therefore a TID U.S. business.
(5) Example 5. Pipeline A is an interstate natural gas pipeline with an outside diameter of 36 inches. Corporation A is a U.S. business that owns Pipeline A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that manufactures the pipe segments with an outside diameter of 36 inches that are used in Pipeline A. Pipeline A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Pipeline A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Pipeline A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
Example 5.
Pipeline A is an interstate natural gas pipeline with an outside diameter of 36 inches. Corporation A is a U.S. business that owns Pipeline A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that manufactures the pipe segments with an outside diameter of 36 inches that are used in Pipeline A. Pipeline A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Pipeline A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Pipeline A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(6) Example 6. IXP A is an internet exchange point that supports public peering. Corporation A is a U.S. business that operates IXP A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that maintains the physical premises of IXP A. IXP A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to IXP A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to IXP A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
Example 6.
IXP A is an internet exchange point that supports public peering. Corporation A is a U.S. business that operates IXP A. Corporation B is a U.S. business that maintains the physical premises of IXP A. IXP A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to IXP A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to IXP A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(7) Example 7. SCADA System A is a supervisory control and data acquisition system utilized by a public water system, as defined in section 1401(4) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f(4)(A)), that regularly serves 15,000 individuals. Corporation A is a U.S. business that produces SCADA System A by building the hardware and integrating all the software. Corporation B is a U.S. business that produces commercially available off-the-shelf software that is sold to Corporation A and used as a component in SCADA System A. SCADA System A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, as the manufacturer of SCADA System A, performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
Example 7.
SCADA System A is a supervisory control and data acquisition system utilized by a public water system, as defined in section 1401(4) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f(4)(A)), that regularly serves 15,000 individuals. Corporation A is a U.S. business that produces SCADA System A by building the hardware and integrating all the software. Corporation B is a U.S. business that produces commercially available off-the-shelf software that is sold to Corporation A and used as a component in SCADA System A. SCADA System A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, as the manufacturer of SCADA System A, performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(8) Example 8. Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. Corporation B later releases a patch that updates the commercially available off-the-shelf software that is a component of SCADA System A. As the software is only a component of SCADA System A, the software itself is not covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
Example 8.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. Corporation B later releases a patch that updates the commercially available off-the-shelf software that is a component of SCADA System A. As the software is only a component of SCADA System A, the software itself is not covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to SCADA System A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(9) Example 9. Alloy A is a steel alloy containing two percent manganese. Corporation A is a U.S. business that manufactures Alloy A in Facility A by melting the constituent metals. Facility A is in the United States. Corporation B is a U.S. business that purchases Alloy A from Corporation A and resells it to a prime contractor of the Department of Defense. Facility A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Alloy A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Alloy A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
Example 9.
Alloy A is a steel alloy containing two percent manganese. Corporation A is a U.S. business that manufactures Alloy A in Facility A by melting the constituent metals. Facility A is in the United States. Corporation B is a U.S. business that purchases Alloy A from Corporation A and resells it to a prime contractor of the Department of Defense. Facility A is covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A performs one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Alloy A and is therefore a TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B does not perform one of the functions as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part with respect to Alloy A and is therefore not a TID U.S. business.
(10) Example 10. Corporation A, a U.S. business, is a credit reporting agency and maintains consumer reports meeting the description under § 800.241(a)(1)(ii)(B) on greater than one million individuals, including U.S. citizens. Corporation A maintains sensitive personal data and is therefore a TID U.S. business.
Example 10.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, is a credit reporting agency and maintains consumer reports meeting the description under § 800.241(a)(1)(ii)(B) on greater than one million individuals, including U.S. citizens. Corporation A maintains sensitive personal data and is therefore a TID U.S. business.
(11) Example 11. Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(10) of this section, except that Corporation A maintains the sensitive personal data through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Corporation X. Corporation A is a TID U.S. business because it indirectly maintains sensitive personal data. Corporation X is also a TID U.S. business because it directly maintains sensitive personal data.
Example 11.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(10) of this section, except that Corporation A maintains the sensitive personal data through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Corporation X. Corporation A is a TID U.S. business because it indirectly maintains sensitive personal data. Corporation X is also a TID U.S. business because it directly maintains sensitive personal data.
(12) Example 12. Corporation A, a U.S. business, manufactures and sells specialty medical devices to patients with various health conditions. Corporation A solicits certain patient medical information on its five million customers, including U.S. citizens, which is sensitive personal data under § 800.241(a)(1)(ii)(D), for R&D, marketing, and quality assurance purposes. However, Corporation A does not directly maintain or collect this information, but instead outsources this function to a third party, Corporation X, which collects the data according to Corporation A's instructions and maintains the data on Corporation X's corporate servers for Corporation A to access. Corporation A is a TID U.S. business because it indirectly maintains and collects sensitive personal data, and Corporation X is a TID U.S. business because it directly maintains and collects sensitive personal data.
Example 12.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, manufactures and sells specialty medical devices to patients with various health conditions. Corporation A solicits certain patient medical information on its five million customers, including U.S. citizens, which is sensitive personal data under § 800.241(a)(1)(ii)(D), for R&D, marketing, and quality assurance purposes. However, Corporation A does not directly maintain or collect this information, but instead outsources this function to a third party, Corporation X, which collects the data according to Corporation A's instructions and maintains the data on Corporation X's corporate servers for Corporation A to access. Corporation A is a TID U.S. business because it indirectly maintains and collects sensitive personal data, and Corporation X is a TID U.S. business because it directly maintains and collects sensitive personal data.

§ 800.249   Transaction.

The term transaction means any of the following, whether proposed or completed:
transaction
means any of the following, whether proposed or completed:
(a) A merger, acquisition, or takeover, including:
(1) The acquisition of an ownership interest in an entity;
(2) The acquisition of proxies from holders of a voting interest in an entity;
(3) A merger or consolidation;
(4) The formation of a joint venture; or
(5) A long-term lease or concession arrangement under which a lessee (or equivalent) makes substantially all business decisions concerning the operation of a leased entity (or equivalent), as if it were the owner;
(b) An investment; or
(c) The conversion of a contingent equity interest.
(d) Example: Corporation A, a foreign person, signs a concession agreement to operate the toll road business of Corporation B, a U.S. business, for 99 years. Corporation B, however, is required under the agreement to perform safety and security functions with respect to the business and to monitor compliance by Corporation A with the operating requirements of the agreement on an ongoing basis. Corporation B may terminate the agreement or impose other penalties for breach of these operating requirements. Assuming no other relevant facts, this is not a transaction.
Note 1 to § 800.249:
See § 800.308 regarding factors the Committee will consider in determining whether to include the access, rights, or involvement to be acquired by a foreign person upon the conversion of contingent equity interests as part of the Committee's analysis of whether a transaction that involves such interests is a covered transaction.

§ 800.250   Unaffiliated TID U.S. business.

The term unaffiliated TID U.S. business means, with respect to a foreign person, a TID U.S. business in which that foreign person does not directly hold more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting interest or have the right to appoint more than half of the members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body.
unaffiliated TID U.S. business
means, with respect to a foreign person, a TID U.S. business in which that foreign person does not directly hold more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting interest or have the right to appoint more than half of the members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body.

§ 800.251   United States.

The term United States or U.S. means the United States of America, the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States. For purposes of these regulations and their examples in this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”
United States
or
U.S.
means the United States of America, the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States. For purposes of these regulations and their examples in this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”

§ 800.252   U.S. business.

(a) The term U.S. business means any entity, irrespective of the nationality of the persons that control it, engaged in interstate commerce in the United States.
U.S. business
means any entity, irrespective of the nationality of the persons that control it, engaged in interstate commerce in the United States.
(b) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. It engages in interstate commerce in the United States through a branch or subsidiary. Its branch or subsidiary is a U.S. business. Corporation A and its branch or subsidiary are each also a foreign person.
Example 1.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. It engages in interstate commerce in the United States through a branch or subsidiary. Its branch or subsidiary is a U.S. business. Corporation A and its branch or subsidiary are each also a foreign person.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. Corporation A does not have a branch office, subsidiary, or fixed place of business in the United States. It exports and licenses technology to an unrelated company in the United States. It also provides remote technical support services to customers that are in the United States, but does not have any assets or personnel located in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a U.S. business.
Example 2.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is wholly owned and controlled by a foreign national. Corporation A does not have a branch office, subsidiary, or fixed place of business in the United States. It exports and licenses technology to an unrelated company in the United States. It also provides remote technical support services to customers that are in the United States, but does not have any assets or personnel located in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a U.S. business.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a company organized under the laws of a foreign state, is wholly owned and controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Corporation A does not have a branch office, subsidiary, or fixed place of business in the United States. It exports goods to Corporation X and to unrelated companies in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a U.S. business.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a company organized under the laws of a foreign state, is wholly owned and controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Corporation A does not have a branch office, subsidiary, or fixed place of business in the United States. It exports goods to Corporation X and to unrelated companies in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a U.S. business.

§ 800.253   U.S. national.

The term U.S. national means an individual who is a U.S. citizen or an individual who, although not a U.S. citizen, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
U.S. national
means an individual who is a U.S. citizen or an individual who, although not a U.S. citizen, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.

§ 800.254   U.S. regulatory authorization.

The term U.S. regulatory authorization means:
U.S. regulatory authorization
means:
(a) A license or other approval issued by the Department of State under the ITAR;
(b) A license from the Department of Commerce under the EAR;
(c) A specific or general authorization from the Department of Energy under the regulations governing assistance to foreign atomic energy activities at 10 CFR part 810 other than the general authorization described in 10 CFR 810.6(a); or
(d) A specific license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under the regulations governing the export or import of nuclear equipment and material at 10 CFR part 110.
[[85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]]

§ 800.255   Voting interest.

The term voting interest means any interest in an entity that entitles the owner or holder of that interest to vote for the election of directors of the entity (or, with respect to unincorporated entities, individuals exercising similar functions) or to vote on other matters affecting the entity.
voting interest
means any interest in an entity that entitles the owner or holder of that interest to vote for the election of directors of the entity (or, with respect to unincorporated entities, individuals exercising similar functions) or to vote on other matters affecting the entity.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020. Redesignated at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]]

§ 800.256   Voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations.

(a) The term voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations means, for the purposes of § 800.401(c)(1)(v), a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 25 percent or more, subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations
means, for the purposes of § 800.401(c)(1)(v), a voting interest, direct or indirect, of 25 percent or more, subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) In the case of an entity whose activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of a general partner, managing member, or equivalent, a person will be considered to have a voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations in such entity only if it holds 25 percent or more of the interest in the general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations
in such entity only if it holds 25 percent or more of the interest in the general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
(c) For purposes of determining the percentage of voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations held indirectly by one person in another, any interest of a parent will be deemed to be a 100 percent interest in any entity of which it is a parent.
voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations
held indirectly by one person in another, any interest of a parent will be deemed to be a 100 percent interest in any entity of which it is a parent.
(d) For purposes of § 800.401(c)(1)(v), foreign persons who are related, have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or are agencies or instrumentalities of, or controlled by, the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state are considered part of a group of foreign persons and their individual holdings are aggregated.
[[85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]]

Subpart C—Coverage


§ 800.301   Transactions that are covered control transactions.

Transactions that are covered control transactions include:
(a) A transaction which, irrespective of the actual arrangements for control provided for in the terms of the transaction, results or could result in control of a U.S. business by a foreign person. (See the examples in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.)
(b) A transaction in which a foreign person conveys its control of a U.S. business to another foreign person. (See the example in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.)
(c) A transaction that results or could result in control by a foreign person of any part of an entity or of assets, if such part of an entity or assets constitutes a U.S. business. (See § 800.302(c) and the examples in paragraphs (e)(5) through (14) of this section.)
(d) A joint venture in which the parties enter into a contractual or other similar arrangement, including an agreement on the establishment of a new entity, but only if one or more of the parties contributes a U.S. business and a foreign person could control that U.S. business by means of the joint venture. (See the examples in paragraphs (e)(15) through (17) of this section.)
(e) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X, which is a U.S. business. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation X, and those directors will have the right to make decisions about the closing and relocation of particular production facilities and the termination of significant contracts. The directors also will have the right to propose to Corporation A, the sole shareholder, the dissolution of Corporation X and the sale of its principal assets. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X, which is a U.S. business. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation X, and those directors will have the right to make decisions about the closing and relocation of particular production facilities and the termination of significant contracts. The directors also will have the right to propose to Corporation A, the sole shareholder, the dissolution of Corporation X and the sale of its principal assets. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example (e)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A plans to retain the existing directors of Corporation X, all of whom are U.S. nationals. Although Corporation A may choose not to exercise its power to elect new directors for Corporation X, Corporation A nevertheless will have that exercisable power. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example (e)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A plans to retain the existing directors of Corporation X, all of whom are U.S. nationals. Although Corporation A may choose not to exercise its power to elect new directors for Corporation X, Corporation A nevertheless will have that exercisable power. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase 50 percent of the voting shares in Corporation X, a U.S. business, from Corporation B, also a U.S. business. The governance documents of Corporation X provide that important decisions require the affirmative vote of more than half of the votes cast. Corporation B would retain the other 50 percent of the shares in Corporation X, and Corporation A and Corporation B would contractually agree that Corporation A would not exercise its voting and other rights for 10 years. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase 50 percent of the voting shares in Corporation X, a U.S. business, from Corporation B, also a U.S. business. The governance documents of Corporation X provide that important decisions require the affirmative vote of more than half of the votes cast. Corporation B would retain the other 50 percent of the shares in Corporation X, and Corporation A and Corporation B would contractually agree that Corporation A would not exercise its voting and other rights for 10 years. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(4) Example 4. Corporation X is a U.S. business, but is wholly owned and controlled by Corporation Y, a foreign person. Corporation Z, also a foreign person, but not related to Corporation Y, seeks to acquire Corporation X from Corporation Y. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction because it could result in control of Corporation X, a U.S. business, by another foreign person, Corporation Z.
Example 4.
Corporation X is a U.S. business, but is wholly owned and controlled by Corporation Y, a foreign person. Corporation Z, also a foreign person, but not related to Corporation Y, seeks to acquire Corporation X from Corporation Y. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction because it could result in control of Corporation X, a U.S. business, by another foreign person, Corporation Z.
(5) Example 5. Corporation X, a foreign person, has a branch office located in the United States. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to buy that branch office. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
Example 5.
Corporation X, a foreign person, has a branch office located in the United States. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to buy that branch office. The proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(6) Example 6. Corporation A, a foreign person, buys a branch office located entirely outside the United States of Corporation Y, which is incorporated in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, the branch office of Corporation Y is not a U.S. business, and the transaction is not a covered control transaction.
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, buys a branch office located entirely outside the United States of Corporation Y, which is incorporated in the United States. Assuming no other relevant facts, the branch office of Corporation Y is not a U.S. business, and the transaction is not a covered control transaction.
(7) Example 7. Corporation A, a foreign person, makes a start-up, or “greenfield,” investment in the United States. That investment involves activities such as the foreign person separately arranging for the financing of and the construction of a plant to make a new product, buying supplies and inputs, hiring personnel, and purchasing the necessary technology. The investment involves incorporating a newly formed subsidiary of the foreign person. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A will not have acquired a U.S. business, and its greenfield investment is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this title, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
Example 7.
Corporation A, a foreign person, makes a start-up, or “greenfield,” investment in the United States. That investment involves activities such as the foreign person separately arranging for the financing of and the construction of a plant to make a new product, buying supplies and inputs, hiring personnel, and purchasing the necessary technology. The investment involves incorporating a newly formed subsidiary of the foreign person. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A will not have acquired a U.S. business, and its greenfield investment is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this title, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
(8) Example 8. Corporation A, a foreign person, intends to make an early-stage investment in a start-up company in the United States. Prior to the investment by the foreign person, the start-up has engaged in interstate commerce, including incorporating, establishing a domain name, hiring personnel, developing business plans, seeking financing, and renting office space, without the involvement of the foreign person. As a result of the investment, Corporation A could control the U.S. business. Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business and the proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
Example 8.
Corporation A, a foreign person, intends to make an early-stage investment in a start-up company in the United States. Prior to the investment by the foreign person, the start-up has engaged in interstate commerce, including incorporating, establishing a domain name, hiring personnel, developing business plans, seeking financing, and renting office space, without the involvement of the foreign person. As a result of the investment, Corporation A could control the U.S. business. Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business and the proposed transaction is a covered control transaction.
(9) Example 9. Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases substantially all of the assets of Corporation B. Corporation B, which is incorporated in the United States, was in the business of producing industrial equipment, but stopped producing and selling such equipment one week before Corporation A purchased substantially all of its assets. At the time of the transaction, Corporation B continued to have employees on its payroll, maintained know-how in producing the industrial equipment it previously produced, and maintained relationships with its prior customers, all of which were transferred to Corporation A. Corporation A has acquired a U.S. business and the acquisition is a covered control transaction.
Example 9.
Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases substantially all of the assets of Corporation B. Corporation B, which is incorporated in the United States, was in the business of producing industrial equipment, but stopped producing and selling such equipment one week before Corporation A purchased substantially all of its assets. At the time of the transaction, Corporation B continued to have employees on its payroll, maintained know-how in producing the industrial equipment it previously produced, and maintained relationships with its prior customers, all of which were transferred to Corporation A. Corporation A has acquired a U.S. business and the acquisition is a covered control transaction.
(10) Example 10. Corporation X, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation A, a U.S. business, an empty warehouse facility located in the United States. The acquisition would be limited to the physical facility, and would not include customer lists, intellectual property, or other proprietary information, or other intangible assets or the transfer of personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, the facility is not an entity and therefore not a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition of the facility is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this chapter, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
Example 10.
Corporation X, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation A, a U.S. business, an empty warehouse facility located in the United States. The acquisition would be limited to the physical facility, and would not include customer lists, intellectual property, or other proprietary information, or other intangible assets or the transfer of personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, the facility is not an entity and therefore not a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition of the facility is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this chapter, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
(11) Example 11. Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(10) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed acquisition of Corporation A's warehouse facility, Corporation X would acquire the personnel, customer list, equipment, and inventory management software used to operate the facility. Under these facts, Corporation X is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
Example 11.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(10) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed acquisition of Corporation A's warehouse facility, Corporation X would acquire the personnel, customer list, equipment, and inventory management software used to operate the facility. Under these facts, Corporation X is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
(12) Example 12. Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation X, a U.S. business, certain tangible and intangible assets that Corporation X operates as a business in the United States. Corporation A intends to use the assets to establish a business undertaking in a foreign country. Under these facts, Corporation X is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
Example 12.
Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation X, a U.S. business, certain tangible and intangible assets that Corporation X operates as a business in the United States. Corporation A intends to use the assets to establish a business undertaking in a foreign country. Under these facts, Corporation X is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
(13) Example 13. Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation X, a U.S. business, proprietary software developed by Corporation X. The acquisition would be limited to the software and would not include customer lists, marketing material, or other proprietary information; any other tangible or intangible assets; or the transfer of personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, the software does not constitute an entity and is therefore not a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition of the software is not a covered control transaction.
Example 13.
Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire from Corporation X, a U.S. business, proprietary software developed by Corporation X. The acquisition would be limited to the software and would not include customer lists, marketing material, or other proprietary information; any other tangible or intangible assets; or the transfer of personnel. Assuming no other relevant facts, the software does not constitute an entity and is therefore not a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition of the software is not a covered control transaction.
(14) Example 14. Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(13) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed acquisition of Corporation X's proprietary software, Corporation A would acquire Corporation X's customer lists, advertising and promotional material, branding, trademarks, domain names, and internet presence. Under these facts, Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
Example 14.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(13) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed acquisition of Corporation X's proprietary software, Corporation A would acquire Corporation X's customer lists, advertising and promotional material, branding, trademarks, domain names, and internet presence. Under these facts, Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed acquisition is a covered control transaction.
(15) Example 15. Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, form a separate corporation, JV Corporation, to which Corporation A contributes only cash and Corporation X contributes a U.S. business. Each owns 50 percent of the shares of JV Corporation and, under the Articles of Incorporation of JV Corporation, both Corporation A and Corporation X have veto power over matters affecting JV Corporation identified under § 800.208, giving them both control over JV Corporation. The place of incorporation of JV Corporation is not relevant to the determination of whether the transaction is a covered control transaction. The formation of JV Corporation is a covered control transaction.
Example 15.
Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, form a separate corporation, JV Corporation, to which Corporation A contributes only cash and Corporation X contributes a U.S. business. Each owns 50 percent of the shares of JV Corporation and, under the Articles of Incorporation of JV Corporation, both Corporation A and Corporation X have veto power over matters affecting JV Corporation identified under § 800.208, giving them both control over JV Corporation. The place of incorporation of JV Corporation is not relevant to the determination of whether the transaction is a covered control transaction. The formation of JV Corporation is a covered control transaction.
(16) Example 16. Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, form a separate corporation, JV Corporation, to which Corporation A contributes funding and managerial and technical personnel, while Corporation X contributes certain land and equipment that do not in this example constitute a U.S. business. Corporations A and X each have a 50 percent interest in the joint venture. Assuming no other relevant facts, the formation of JV Corporation is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this title, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
Example 16.
Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, form a separate corporation, JV Corporation, to which Corporation A contributes funding and managerial and technical personnel, while Corporation X contributes certain land and equipment that do not in this example constitute a U.S. business. Corporations A and X each have a 50 percent interest in the joint venture. Assuming no other relevant facts, the formation of JV Corporation is not a covered control transaction. However, this transaction may be subject to the provisions of part 802 of this title, which addresses certain transactions concerning real estate.
(17) Example 17. Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(16) of this section, except that, in addition to contributing certain land and equipment, Corporation X also contributes intellectual property, other proprietary information, and other intangible assets, that together with the land and equipment constitute a U.S. business, to JV Corporation. Under these facts, Corporation X has contributed a U.S. business, and the formation of JV Corporation is a covered control transaction.
Example 17.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (e)(16) of this section, except that, in addition to contributing certain land and equipment, Corporation X also contributes intellectual property, other proprietary information, and other intangible assets, that together with the land and equipment constitute a U.S. business, to JV Corporation. Under these facts, Corporation X has contributed a U.S. business, and the formation of JV Corporation is a covered control transaction.

§ 800.302   Transactions that are not covered control transactions.

Transactions that are not covered control transactions include:
(a) A stock split or pro rata stock dividend that does not involve a change in control. See the example in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(b) A transaction that results in a foreign person holding 10 percent or less of the outstanding voting interest in a U.S. business (regardless of the dollar value of the interest so acquired), but only if the transaction is solely for the purpose of passive investment. (See § 800.243 and the examples in paragraphs (f)(2) through (4) of this section.)
(c) An acquisition of any part of an entity or of assets, if such part of an entity or assets do not constitute a U.S. business. (See § 800.301(c) and the examples in paragraphs (f)(5) through (10) of this section.)
(d) An acquisition of securities by a person acting as a securities underwriter, in the ordinary course of business and in the process of underwriting.
(e) An acquisition pursuant to a condition in a contract of insurance relating to fidelity, surety, or casualty obligations if the contract was made by an insurer in the ordinary course of business.
(f) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, holds 10,000 shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Corporation B pays a 2-for-1 stock dividend. As a result of this stock split, Corporation A holds 20,000 shares of Corporation B, still constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of additional shares is not a covered control transaction.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, holds 10,000 shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Corporation B pays a 2-for-1 stock dividend. As a result of this stock split, Corporation A holds 20,000 shares of Corporation B, still constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of additional shares is not a covered control transaction.
(2) Example 2. In an open market purchase solely for the purpose of passive investment, Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires seven percent of the voting securities of Corporation X, which is a U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of the securities is not a covered control transaction.
Example 2.
In an open market purchase solely for the purpose of passive investment, Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires seven percent of the voting securities of Corporation X, which is a U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of the securities is not a covered control transaction.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires nine percent of the voting shares of Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation A also negotiates contractual rights that give it the power to control important matters of Corporation X. The acquisition by Corporation A of the voting shares of Corporation X is not solely for the purpose of passive investment and is a covered control transaction.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires nine percent of the voting shares of Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation A also negotiates contractual rights that give it the power to control important matters of Corporation X. The acquisition by Corporation A of the voting shares of Corporation X is not solely for the purpose of passive investment and is a covered control transaction.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires five percent of the voting shares in Corporation B, a U.S. business. In addition to the securities, Corporation A obtains the right to appoint one out of eleven seats on Corporation B's board of directors. The acquisition by Corporation A of Corporation B's securities is not solely for the purpose of passive investment. Whether the transaction is a covered control transaction would depend on whether Corporation A obtains control of Corporation B as a result of the transaction. See § 800.303 for transactions that are covered investments.
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires five percent of the voting shares in Corporation B, a U.S. business. In addition to the securities, Corporation A obtains the right to appoint one out of eleven seats on Corporation B's board of directors. The acquisition by Corporation A of Corporation B's securities is not solely for the purpose of passive investment. Whether the transaction is a covered control transaction would depend on whether Corporation A obtains control of Corporation B as a result of the transaction. See § 800.303 for transactions that are covered investments.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires, from separate U.S. nationals products held in inventory, land, and machinery for export. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, and this acquisition is not a covered control transaction.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires, from separate U.S. nationals products held in inventory, land, and machinery for export. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, and this acquisition is not a covered control transaction.
(6) Example 6. Corporation X, a U.S. business, produces armored personnel carriers in the United States. Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire the annual production of those carriers from Corporation X under a long-term contract. Assuming no other relevant facts, this transaction is not a covered control transaction.
Example 6.
Corporation X, a U.S. business, produces armored personnel carriers in the United States. Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to acquire the annual production of those carriers from Corporation X under a long-term contract. Assuming no other relevant facts, this transaction is not a covered control transaction.
(7) Example 7. Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation X, a U.S. business, has developed important technology in connection with the production of armored personnel carriers. Corporation A seeks to negotiate an agreement under which it would be licensed to manufacture using that technology. Assuming no other relevant facts, neither the proposed acquisition of technology pursuant to that license agreement, nor the actual acquisition, is a covered control transaction.
Example 7.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation X, a U.S. business, has developed important technology in connection with the production of armored personnel carriers. Corporation A seeks to negotiate an agreement under which it would be licensed to manufacture using that technology. Assuming no other relevant facts, neither the proposed acquisition of technology pursuant to that license agreement, nor the actual acquisition, is a covered control transaction.
(8) Example 8. Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation A enters into a contractual arrangement to acquire the entire armored personnel carrier business operations of Corporation X, including production facilities, customer lists, technology, and staff, which together constitute a U.S. business. This transaction is a covered control transaction.
Example 8.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation A enters into a contractual arrangement to acquire the entire armored personnel carrier business operations of Corporation X, including production facilities, customer lists, technology, and staff, which together constitute a U.S. business. This transaction is a covered control transaction.
(9) Example 9. Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation X suspended all activities of its armored personnel carrier business a year ago and currently is in bankruptcy proceedings. Existing equipment provided by Corporation X is being serviced by another company, which purchased the service contracts from Corporation X. The business's production facilities are idle but still in working condition, some of its key former employees have agreed to return if the business is resuscitated, and its technology and customer and vendor lists are still current. Corporation X's personnel carrier business constitutes a U.S. business, and its purchase by Corporation A is a covered control transaction.
Example 9.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation X suspended all activities of its armored personnel carrier business a year ago and currently is in bankruptcy proceedings. Existing equipment provided by Corporation X is being serviced by another company, which purchased the service contracts from Corporation X. The business's production facilities are idle but still in working condition, some of its key former employees have agreed to return if the business is resuscitated, and its technology and customer and vendor lists are still current. Corporation X's personnel carrier business constitutes a U.S. business, and its purchase by Corporation A is a covered control transaction.
(10) Example 10. Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation A and Corporation X establish a joint venture that will be controlled by Corporation A to manufacture armored personnel carriers outside the United States, and Corporation X contributes assets constituting a U.S. business, including intellectual property and other intangible assets required to manufacture the armored personnel carriers, to the joint venture. Corporation X has contributed a U.S. business to the joint venture, and the establishment of the joint venture is a covered control transaction.
Example 10.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (f)(6) of this section, except that Corporation A and Corporation X establish a joint venture that will be controlled by Corporation A to manufacture armored personnel carriers outside the United States, and Corporation X contributes assets constituting a U.S. business, including intellectual property and other intangible assets required to manufacture the armored personnel carriers, to the joint venture. Corporation X has contributed a U.S. business to the joint venture, and the establishment of the joint venture is a covered control transaction.
(11) Example 11. Corporation A, a foreign person, holds a 10 percent ownership interest in Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation A and Corporation X enter into a contractual arrangement pursuant to which Corporation A gains the right to purchase an additional interest in Corporation X to prevent the dilution of Corporation A's pro rata interest in Corporation X in the event that Corporation X issues additional instruments conveying interests in Corporation X. Corporation A does not acquire any additional rights or ownership interest in Corporation X pursuant to the contractual arrangement. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is not a covered control transaction.
Example 11.
Corporation A, a foreign person, holds a 10 percent ownership interest in Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation A and Corporation X enter into a contractual arrangement pursuant to which Corporation A gains the right to purchase an additional interest in Corporation X to prevent the dilution of Corporation A's
pro rata
interest in Corporation X in the event that Corporation X issues additional instruments conveying interests in Corporation X. Corporation A does not acquire any additional rights or ownership interest in Corporation X pursuant to the contractual arrangement. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is not a covered control transaction.

§ 800.303   Transactions that are covered investments.

Transactions that are covered investments include:
(a) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 800.211 irrespective of the percentage of voting interest acquired. (See the examples in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.)
(b) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 800.211, irrespective of the fact that the Committee concluded all action under section 721 for a previous covered investment by the same foreign person in the same TID U.S. business, where such transaction involves the acquisition of access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211 in addition to those notified to the Committee in the transaction for which the Committee previously concluded action. (See the example in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.)
(c) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 800.211, irrespective of the fact that the critical technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by the TID U.S. business became controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after February 13, 2020, unless any of the criteria set forth in § 800.104(b) are satisfied with respect to the transaction prior to the critical technology becoming controlled. (See the example in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.)
(d) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an entity in which Corporation A has no voting interests or any rights. Corporation B is a U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology. Corporation B is therefore an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. The proposed transaction is a covered investment.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an entity in which Corporation A has no voting interests or any rights. Corporation B is a U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology. Corporation B is therefore an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. The proposed transaction is a covered investment.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that, pursuant to the terms of the investment, instead of observer rights, Corporation A has consultation rights with respect to Corporation B's licensing of a critical technology to third parties. Corporation A is therefore involved in substantive decisionmaking with respect to Corporation B, and the proposed transaction is a covered investment.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that, pursuant to the terms of the investment, instead of observer rights, Corporation A has consultation rights with respect to Corporation B's licensing of a critical technology to third parties. Corporation A is therefore involved in substantive decisionmaking with respect to Corporation B, and the proposed transaction is a covered investment.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A is a foreign person that is an excepted investor. Corporation B, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, owns a three percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation A. Corporation A proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation C, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment in Corporation C and Corporation A's governance documents, Corporation A and Corporation B will each have access to material nonpublic technical information in Corporation C's possession. The transaction is a covered investment because Corporation B is making an investment that will result in access to material nonpublic technical information under § 800.211(b).
Example 3.
Corporation A is a foreign person that is an excepted investor. Corporation B, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, owns a three percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation A. Corporation A proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation C, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment in Corporation C and Corporation A's governance documents, Corporation A and Corporation B will each have access to material nonpublic technical information in Corporation C's possession. The transaction is a covered investment because Corporation B is making an investment that will result in access to material nonpublic technical information under § 800.211(b).
(4) Example 4. The Committee concludes all action under section 721 with respect to a covered investment by Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, in which Corporation A acquires a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with access to material non-public information in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, resulting in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Pursuant to the terms of the additional investment, Corporation A will receive the right to appoint a member to the board of directors of Corporation B. The proposed transaction is a covered investment because the transaction involves both an acquisition of an equity interest in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business and a new right under § 800.211.
Example 4.
The Committee concludes all action under section 721 with respect to a covered investment by Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, in which Corporation A acquires a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with access to material non-public information in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, resulting in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Pursuant to the terms of the additional investment, Corporation A will receive the right to appoint a member to the board of directors of Corporation B. The proposed transaction is a covered investment because the transaction involves both an acquisition of an equity interest in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business and a new right under § 800.211.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, has executed a binding written agreement establishing the material terms of a proposed non-controlling investment in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. The proposed investment will afford Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B. The only controlled technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by Corporation B became controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after February 13, 2020, but prior to the date upon which the binding written agreement establishing the material terms of the investment was executed. The proposed transaction is a covered investment.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, has executed a binding written agreement establishing the material terms of a proposed non-controlling investment in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. The proposed investment will afford Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B. The only controlled technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by Corporation B became controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after February 13, 2020, but prior to the date upon which the binding written agreement establishing the material terms of the investment was executed. The proposed transaction is a covered investment.

§ 800.304   Transactions that are not covered investments.

Transactions that are not covered investments include:
(a) An investment by a foreign person in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that does not afford the foreign person any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b). (See the examples in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.)
(b) An investment by a foreign person who is an excepted investor in an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. (See the example in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.)
(c) A transaction that results or could result in control by a foreign person of an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. (See the example in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.)
(d) A stock split or pro rata stock dividend that does not afford the foreign person any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b). (See the example in paragraph (f)(5) of this section.)
(e) An acquisition of securities by a person acting as a securities underwriter, in the ordinary course of business and in the process of underwriting.
(f) Examples:
(1) Example 1. In an open market purchase solely for the purpose of passive investment, Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires seven percent of the voting securities of Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of the securities is not a covered investment.
Example 1.
In an open market purchase solely for the purpose of passive investment, Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires seven percent of the voting securities of Corporation X, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of the securities is not a covered investment.
(2) Example 2. The Committee concluded all action under section 721 with respect to a covered investment in which Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquired a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with board observer rights in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, which would result in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. The proposed investment does not afford Corporation A any additional access, rights, or involvement with respect to Corporation B, including the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b). Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment.
Example 2.
The Committee concluded all action under section 721 with respect to a covered investment in which Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquired a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with board observer rights in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, which would result in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. The proposed investment does not afford Corporation A any additional access, rights, or involvement with respect to Corporation B, including the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b). Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a foreign person who is an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person who is an excepted investor, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A, a foreign person who is an excepted investor, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment. It is, however, a covered control transaction. Whether Corporation A is an excepted investor and whether Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business are not relevant to the determination of whether the transaction is a covered control transaction. (See § 800.301.)
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person who is an excepted investor, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a covered investment. It is, however, a covered control transaction. Whether Corporation A is an excepted investor and whether Corporation B is an unaffiliated TID U.S. business are not relevant to the determination of whether the transaction is a covered control transaction. (See § 800.301.)
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, holds 10,000 shares and board observer rights in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Corporation B pays a 2-for-1 stock dividend. As a result of this stock split, Corporation A holds 20,000 shares of Corporation B, still constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. The investment does not afford Corporation A any additional access, rights, or involvement with respect to Corporation B, including those specified in § 800.211(b). Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of additional shares is not a covered investment.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, holds 10,000 shares and board observer rights in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. Corporation B pays a 2-for-1 stock dividend. As a result of this stock split, Corporation A holds 20,000 shares of Corporation B, still constituting 10 percent of the stock of Corporation B. The investment does not afford Corporation A any additional access, rights, or involvement with respect to Corporation B, including those specified in § 800.211(b). Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of additional shares is not a covered investment.

§ 800.305   Incremental acquisitions.

(a) Any transaction in which a foreign person acquires an additional interest in, or for which a change in rights of the foreign person occurs with respect to, a U.S. business over which the same foreign person, or any entity that it wholly owns directly or indirectly, previously acquired direct control as a result of a covered control transaction for which the Committee concluded all action under section 721 shall be deemed not to be a covered transaction. If, however, a foreign person that did not acquire control of the U.S. business in the prior transaction is a party to the later transaction, the later transaction may be a covered transaction.
(b) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, directly acquires a 40 percent voting interest and important rights with respect to Corporation B, a U.S. business. The documentation pertaining to the transaction gives no indication that Corporation A's interest in Corporation B may increase at a later date. Corporation A and Corporation B file a voluntary notice of the transaction with the Committee. Following its review of the transaction, the Committee informs the parties that the notified transaction is a covered control transaction, and concludes action under section 721. Three years later, Corporation A acquires the remainder of the voting interest in Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, because the Committee concluded all action with respect to Corporation A's earlier direct acquisition of control in the same U.S. business, and because no other foreign person is a party to this subsequent transaction, this subsequent transaction is not a covered transaction.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, directly acquires a 40 percent voting interest and important rights with respect to Corporation B, a U.S. business. The documentation pertaining to the transaction gives no indication that Corporation A's interest in Corporation B may increase at a later date. Corporation A and Corporation B file a voluntary notice of the transaction with the Committee. Following its review of the transaction, the Committee informs the parties that the notified transaction is a covered control transaction, and concludes action under section 721. Three years later, Corporation A acquires the remainder of the voting interest in Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, because the Committee concluded all action with respect to Corporation A's earlier direct acquisition of control in the same U.S. business, and because no other foreign person is a party to this subsequent transaction, this subsequent transaction is not a covered transaction.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, makes a covered investment in Corporation B, an unaffiliated U.S. TID business, pursuant to which Corporation A acquires a five percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B that affords it access to material nonpublic technical information of Corporation B. Following its review of the transaction, the Committee informs the parties that the notified transaction is a covered investment, and concludes action under section 721. Two years later, Corporation A, in a subsequent investment, acquires an additional five percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, which affords Corporation A the right to appoint one board member of Corporation A. The subsequent investment is a covered investment.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, makes a covered investment in Corporation B, an unaffiliated U.S. TID business, pursuant to which Corporation A acquires a five percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B that affords it access to material nonpublic technical information of Corporation B. Following its review of the transaction, the Committee informs the parties that the notified transaction is a covered investment, and concludes action under section 721. Two years later, Corporation A, in a subsequent investment, acquires an additional five percent non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, which affords Corporation A the right to appoint one board member of Corporation A. The subsequent investment is a covered investment.
(3) Example 3. Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that instead of Corporation A acquiring the remainder of the voting interest in Corporation B three years after the initial acquisition, the remaining 60 percent voting interest is acquired by Corporation X. Corporation X is wholly owned by Corporation Y. Corporation Y also owns 100 percent of Corporation A. The subsequent transaction may be a covered transaction because, while Corporation A and Corporation X are both under common ownership of Corporation Y, Corporation A (the direct acquirer in the initial transaction) does not wholly own Corporation X.
Example 3.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that instead of Corporation A acquiring the remainder of the voting interest in Corporation B three years after the initial acquisition, the remaining 60 percent voting interest is acquired by Corporation X. Corporation X is wholly owned by Corporation Y. Corporation Y also owns 100 percent of Corporation A. The subsequent transaction may be a covered transaction because, while Corporation A and Corporation X are both under common ownership of Corporation Y, Corporation A (the direct acquirer in the initial transaction) does not wholly own Corporation X.

§ 800.306   Lending transactions.

(a) The extension of a loan or a similar financing arrangement by a foreign person to a U.S. business, regardless of whether accompanied by the creation in favor of the foreign person of a secured interest over securities or other assets of the U.S. business, shall not, by itself, constitute a covered transaction.
(1) The Committee will accept notices or declarations concerning a loan or a similar financing arrangement that does not, by itself, constitute a covered transaction only at the time that, because of imminent or actual default or other condition, there is a significant possibility that the foreign person may obtain control of a U.S. business, or acquire equity interest and access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b) over a TID U.S. business, as a result of the default or other condition.
(2) Where the Committee accepts a notice or declaration concerning a loan or a similar financing arrangement under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and a party to the transaction is a foreign person that makes loans in the ordinary course of business, the Committee will take into account whether the foreign person has made any arrangements to transfer management decisions, or day-to-day control over the U.S. business to U.S. nationals or, as applicable, excepted investors for purposes of determining whether such loan or financing arrangement constitutes a covered transaction.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a loan or a similar financing arrangement through which a foreign person acquires an interest in profits of a U.S. business, the right to appoint members of the board of directors of the U.S. business, or other comparable financial or governance rights characteristic of an equity investment but not of a typical loan may constitute a covered transaction.
(c) An acquisition of voting interest in or assets of a U.S. business by a foreign person upon default or other condition involving a loan or a similar financing arrangement does not constitute a covered transaction, provided that the loan was made by a syndicate of banks in a loan participation where the foreign lender (or lenders) in the syndicate:
(1) Needs the majority consent of the U.S. participants in the syndicate to take action, and cannot on its own initiate any action vis-à-vis the debtor; or
(2) Does not have a lead role in the syndicate, and is subject to a provision in the loan or financing documents limiting its ability to:
(i) Control the debtor such that control for purposes of § 800.208 could not be acquired; and
(ii) Exercise any access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b).
(d) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, which is a U.S. business, borrows funds from Corporation B, a bank organized under the laws of a foreign state and controlled by foreign persons. As a condition of the loan, Corporation A agrees not to sell or pledge its principal assets to any person. Assuming no other relevant facts, this lending arrangement does not alone constitute a covered transaction.
Example 1.
Corporation A, which is a U.S. business, borrows funds from Corporation B, a bank organized under the laws of a foreign state and controlled by foreign persons. As a condition of the loan, Corporation A agrees not to sell or pledge its principal assets to any person. Assuming no other relevant facts, this lending arrangement does not alone constitute a covered transaction.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A defaults on its loan from Corporation B and seeks bankruptcy protection. Corporation A has no funds with which to satisfy Corporation B's claim, which is greater than the value of Corporation A's principal assets. Corporation B's secured claim constitutes the only secured claim against Corporation A's principal assets, creating a high probability that Corporation B will receive title to Corporation A's principal assets, which constitute a U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee would accept a notice of the impending bankruptcy court adjudication transferring control of Corporation A's principal assets to Corporation B, which would constitute a covered control transaction.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that Corporation A defaults on its loan from Corporation B and seeks bankruptcy protection. Corporation A has no funds with which to satisfy Corporation B's claim, which is greater than the value of Corporation A's principal assets. Corporation B's secured claim constitutes the only secured claim against Corporation A's principal assets, creating a high probability that Corporation B will receive title to Corporation A's principal assets, which constitute a U.S. business. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee would accept a notice of the impending bankruptcy court adjudication transferring control of Corporation A's principal assets to Corporation B, which would constitute a covered control transaction.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a foreign bank, makes a loan to Corporation B, a U.S. business. The loan documentation provides Corporation A the right to appoint a majority of the board of directors of Corporation B and the right to be paid dividends by Corporation B. These rights are characteristic of an equity interest but not of a typical loan. Also, as a result of the transaction, under the terms of the loan documentation, Corporation A has the power to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting Corporation B. This loan is a covered control transaction.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign bank, makes a loan to Corporation B, a U.S. business. The loan documentation provides Corporation A the right to appoint a majority of the board of directors of Corporation B and the right to be paid dividends by Corporation B. These rights are characteristic of an equity interest but not of a typical loan. Also, as a result of the transaction, under the terms of the loan documentation, Corporation A has the power to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting Corporation B. This loan is a covered control transaction.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A, a foreign bank that is not an excepted investor, makes a loan to Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. The loan documentation provides Corporation A the right to appoint one out of fifteen seats on Corporation B's board of directors and the right to be paid dividends by Corporation B. These rights are characteristic of an equity interest but not of a typical loan. However, assuming no other relevant facts under the terms of the loan documentation, Corporation A does not have the power to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting Corporation B. This loan is a covered investment.
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign bank that is not an excepted investor, makes a loan to Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. The loan documentation provides Corporation A the right to appoint one out of fifteen seats on Corporation B's board of directors and the right to be paid dividends by Corporation B. These rights are characteristic of an equity interest but not of a typical loan. However, assuming no other relevant facts under the terms of the loan documentation, Corporation A does not have the power to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting Corporation B. This loan is a covered investment.

§ 800.307   Specific clarification for investment funds.

(a) Notwithstanding § 800.303, an indirect investment by a foreign person in a TID U.S. business through an investment fund that affords the foreign person (or a designee of the foreign person) membership as a limited partner or equivalent on an advisory board or a committee of the fund shall not be considered a covered investment if:
(1) The fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, a managing member, or an equivalent;
(2) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the fund is not a foreign person;
(3) The advisory board or committee does not have the ability to approve, disapprove, or otherwise control:
(i) Investment decisions of the investment fund; or
(ii) Decisions made by the general partner, managing member, or equivalent related to entities in which the investment fund is invested;
(4) The foreign person does not otherwise have the ability to control the investment fund, including the authority:
(i) To approve, disapprove, or otherwise control investment decisions of the investment fund;
(ii) To approve, disapprove, or otherwise control decisions made by the general partner, managing member, or equivalent related to entities in which the investment fund is invested; or
(iii) To unilaterally dismiss, prevent the dismissal of, select, or determine the compensation of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent;
(5) The foreign person does not have access to material nonpublic technical information as a result of its participation on the advisory board or committee; and
(6) The investment does not afford the foreign person any of the access, rights, or involvement specified in § 800.211(b).
(b) For the purposes of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a waiver of a potential conflict of interest, a waiver of an allocation limitation, or a similar activity, applicable to a transaction pursuant to the terms of an agreement governing an investment fund shall not be considered to constitute control of investment decisions of the investment fund or decisions relating to entities in which the investment fund is invested.
(c) In extraordinary circumstances, the Committee may consider the waiver of a potential conflict of interest, the waiver of an allocation limitation, or a similar activity, applicable to a transaction pursuant to the terms of an agreement governing an investment fund, to constitute control of investment decisions of the investment fund or decisions relating to entities in which the investment fund is invested.
(d) Example: Limited Partner A, a foreign person, is a limited partner in an investment fund that invests in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business. The investment fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, who is not a foreign person. The investment affords Limited Partner A membership on an advisory board of the investment fund. The advisory board provides industry expertise, but it does not control investment decisions of the fund or decisions made by the general partner related to entities in which the fund is invested. Limited Partner A does not otherwise have the ability to control the fund. Limited Partner A's investment in Corporation B does not afford it access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B, the right to be a member or observer, or to nominate a member or observer, to the board of Corporation B, nor any involvement in the substantive decisionmaking of Corporation B. Assuming no other facts, the indirect investment by Limited Partner A is not a covered investment.

§ 800.308   Timing rule for a contingent equity interest.

(a) For purposes of determining whether to include the rights that a holder of a contingent equity interest will acquire upon conversion of, or exercise of a right provided by, that interest in the Committee's analysis of whether a notified transaction is a covered transaction, the Committee will consider factors that include:
(1) The imminence of conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions;
(2) Whether conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions depends on factors within the control of the acquiring party; and
(3) Whether the amount of interest and the rights that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition.
(b) When the Committee, applying paragraph (a) of this section, determines that the rights that the holder will acquire upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent condition will not be included in the Committee's analysis of whether a notified or submitted transaction is a covered transaction, the Committee will disregard the contingent equity interest for purposes of that transaction except to the extent that they convey immediate rights to the holder with respect to the entity that issued the interest.
(c) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, notifies the Committee that it intends to buy common stock and debentures of Corporation X, a U.S. business. By their terms, the debentures are convertible into common stock only upon the occurrence of an event the timing of which is not in the control of Corporation A, and the number of common shares that would be acquired upon conversion cannot now be determined. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee will disregard the debentures in the course of its covered transaction analysis at the time that Corporation A acquires the debentures. In the event that it determines that the acquisition of the common stock is not a covered transaction, the Committee will so inform the parties. Once the conversion of the instruments becomes imminent, it may be appropriate for the Committee to consider the rights that would result from the conversion and whether the conversion is a covered transaction. The conversion of those debentures into common stock could be a covered transaction, depending on what percentage of Corporation X's voting securities Corporation A would receive and what powers those securities would confer on Corporation A.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, notifies the Committee that it intends to buy common stock and debentures of Corporation X, a U.S. business. By their terms, the debentures are convertible into common stock only upon the occurrence of an event the timing of which is not in the control of Corporation A, and the number of common shares that would be acquired upon conversion cannot now be determined. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee will disregard the debentures in the course of its covered transaction analysis at the time that Corporation A acquires the debentures. In the event that it determines that the acquisition of the common stock is not a covered transaction, the Committee will so inform the parties. Once the conversion of the instruments becomes imminent, it may be appropriate for the Committee to consider the rights that would result from the conversion and whether the conversion is a covered transaction. The conversion of those debentures into common stock could be a covered transaction, depending on what percentage of Corporation X's voting securities Corporation A would receive and what powers those securities would confer on Corporation A.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that the debentures at issue are convertible at the sole discretion of Corporation A after six months, and if converted, would represent a 50 percent interest in Corporation X. The Committee may consider the rights that would result from the conversion as part of its analysis.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that the debentures at issue are convertible at the sole discretion of Corporation A after six months, and if converted, would represent a 50 percent interest in Corporation X. The Committee may consider the rights that would result from the conversion as part of its analysis.

Subpart D—Declarations


§ 800.401   Mandatory declarations.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, the parties to a transaction described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall submit to the Committee a declaration with information regarding the transaction in accordance with § 800.403.
(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a covered transaction that results in the acquisition of a substantial interest in a TID U.S. business by a foreign person in which the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state (other than an excepted foreign state) have a substantial interest.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the assessment of what constitutes a critical technology, as relevant to § 800.248(a), shall be as of the first date on which one of the conditions set forth in § 800.104(b)(1) through (4) is met with respect to a covered transaction.
(c)(1) Subject to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a covered transaction involving a TID U.S. business that produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops one or more critical technologies for which a U.S. regulatory authorization would be required for the export, reexport, transfer (in-country), or retransfer of such critical technology to a person that:
(i) Could directly control such TID U.S. business as a result of the covered transaction;
(ii) Is directly acquiring an interest that is a covered investment in such TID U.S. business;
(iii) Has a direct investment in such TID U.S. business, the rights of such person with respect to such TID U.S. business are changing, and such change in rights could result in a covered control transaction or a covered investment;
(iv) Is a party to any transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement described in § 800.213(d) with respect to such TID U.S. business; or
(v) Individually holds, or as described in § 800.256(d) is part of a group of foreign persons that, in the aggregate, holds, a voting interest for purposes of critical technology mandatory declarations in a person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, whether a U.S. regulatory authorization would be required for the export, reexport, transfer (in-country), or retransfer of a critical technology to a person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section shall be determined:
(i) Without giving effect to any license exemption available under the ITAR or license exception available under the EAR except as described paragraph in (e)(6) of this section;
(ii) Based on such person's principal place of business (for entities) as defined in § 800.239, or such person's nationality or nationalities (for individuals) under the relevant U.S. regulatory authorization, as applicable; and
(iii) As if such person is an “end user” under the relevant U.S. regulatory authorization, as applicable.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the assessment of what constitutes a critical technology shall be as of the first date on which one of the conditions set forth in § 800.104(b)(1) through (4) is met with respect to a covered transaction. (See the example in paragraph (j)(6) of this section.)
(d) The submission of a declaration shall not be required under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to:
(1) A covered transaction by an investment fund if:
(i) The fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, a managing member, or an equivalent;
(ii) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent is not a foreign person; and
(iii) The investment fund satisfies, with respect to any foreign person with membership as a limited partner on an advisory board or a committee of the fund, the criteria specified in § 800.307(a)(3) and (4) (See the examples in paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section); or
(2) A covered control transaction involving an air carrier, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2), that holds a certificate issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102.
(e) The submission of a declaration shall not be required under paragraph (c) of this section with respect to:
(1) A covered control transaction by an excepted investor;
(2) A covered transaction in which the foreign person's indirect investment in the TID U.S. business is held solely and directly via an entity that as of the completion date is:
(i) Subject to a security control agreement, special security agreement, voting trust agreement, or proxy agreement approved by a cognizant security agency to offset foreign ownership, control, or influence pursuant to the National Industrial Security Program regulations (32 CFR part 2004); and
(ii) Operating under a valid facility security clearance pursuant to the National Industrial Security Program regulations (32 CFR part 2004);
(3) A covered transaction by an investment fund if:
(i) The fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, a managing member, or an equivalent;
(ii) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent is:
(A) Ultimately controlled exclusively by U.S. nationals; or
(B) Not a foreign person; and
(iii) The investment fund satisfies, with respect to any foreign person with membership as a limited partner on an advisory board or a committee of the fund, the criteria specified in § 800.307(a)(3) and (4) (See the examples in paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section);
(4) An investment that is a covered investment solely due to the application of § 800.219(d);
(5) A covered control transaction involving an air carrier, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2), that holds a certificate issued under 49 U.S.C. 41102; or
(6) A covered transaction described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section involving critical technology for which the export, reexport, transfer (in-country), or retransfer to any of the persons described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section would require one or more U.S. regulatory authorizations and each such critical technology and person, considered as if in the context of an export, reexport, or transfer, is eligible for at least one of the following license exceptions under the EAR, as applicable:
(i) 15 CFR 740.13;
(ii) 15 CFR 740.17(b); or
(iii) 15 CFR 740.20(c)(1).
Note 1 to § 800.401(
e
)(6):
To be “eligible” for a license exception refers to any requirements imposed by the EAR that must be satisfied prior to export even if no export is to occur.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, parties to a covered transaction may elect to submit a written notice under subpart E of this part regarding the transaction instead of a declaration.
(g) Parties shall submit to the Committee the declaration required under paragraph (a) of this section, or a written notice under paragraph (f) of this section, no later than:
(1) February 13, 2020, or promptly thereafter, if the completion date of the transaction is between February 13, 2020 and March 14, 2020; or
(2) Thirty days before the completion date of the transaction, if the completion date of the transaction is after March 14, 2020.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraph (g) of this section, the parties to a covered transaction may complete a transaction subject to a mandatory declaration or notice under this section at any time after having been informed in writing by the Committee that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 or that the Committee is not able to complete action under § 800.407(a)(2).
(i) In the event that the Committee rejects or permits a withdrawal of a declaration or notice required under this section, the parties shall not complete the transaction earlier than 30 days after the date of the resubmission, except with the written approval of the Staff Chairperson.
(j) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor and in which no foreign government has a substantial interest, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology. Under the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. Corporation B manufactures the critical technology for commercial off-the-shelf use by businesses in various industries, including some identified in appendix B to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is a covered investment, but is not subject to a mandatory declaration or notice under § 800.401 because Corporation B does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop the critical technology specifically for use in one or more industries identified in appendix B to this part.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor and in which no foreign government has a substantial interest, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology. Under the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. Corporation B manufactures the critical technology for commercial off-the-shelf use by businesses in various industries, including some identified in appendix B to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is a covered investment, but is not subject to a mandatory declaration or notice under § 800.401 because Corporation B does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop the critical technology specifically for use in one or more industries identified in appendix B to this part.
(2) Example 2. Investment Fund A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires a 10 percent equity interest in Corporation A, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, and the right to appoint one member of Corporation A's board of directors. Corporation A is manufacturing critical technologies utilized in Corporation A's activity in one or more industries identified in appendix B to this part. Investment Fund A satisfies the requirements under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Investment Fund A's investment in Corporation A is a covered investment, but the transaction is not subject to the mandatory declaration requirement.
Example 2.
Investment Fund A, a foreign person that is not an excepted investor, acquires a 10 percent equity interest in Corporation A, an unaffiliated TID U.S. business, and the right to appoint one member of Corporation A's board of directors. Corporation A is manufacturing critical technologies utilized in Corporation A's activity in one or more industries identified in appendix B to this part. Investment Fund A satisfies the requirements under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Investment Fund A's investment in Corporation A is a covered investment, but the transaction is not subject to the mandatory declaration requirement.
(3) Example 3. Same facts as the example in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, except that in connection with Investment Fund A's transaction, Limited Partner X, a limited partner of Investment Fund A and a foreign national that is not an excepted investor, receives access to the material non-public technical information of Corporation A. Limited Partner X's indirect investment in Corporation A is a covered investment. While Investment Fund A's direct investment is not subject to a mandatory declaration, Limited Partner X's indirect investment in Corporation A is subject to a mandatory declaration.
Example 3.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, except that in connection with Investment Fund A's transaction, Limited Partner X, a limited partner of Investment Fund A and a foreign national that is not an excepted investor, receives access to the material non-public technical information of Corporation A. Limited Partner X's indirect investment in Corporation A is a covered investment. While Investment Fund A's direct investment is not subject to a mandatory declaration, Limited Partner X's indirect investment in Corporation A is subject to a mandatory declaration.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A, a foreign entity with its principal place of business in Country F, acquires 100 percent of the interests of Corporation Y, a U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology controlled under the EAR. A foreign national of Country G owns 25 percent of the voting shares of Corporation A. Under the EAR, a license is required to export the critical technology to Country G but not Country F. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of Corporation Y is subject to a mandatory declaration.
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign entity with its principal place of business in Country F, acquires 100 percent of the interests of Corporation Y, a U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology controlled under the EAR. A foreign national of Country G owns 25 percent of the voting shares of Corporation A. Under the EAR, a license is required to export the critical technology to Country G but not Country F. Assuming no other relevant facts, the acquisition of Corporation Y is subject to a mandatory declaration.
(5) Example 5. Corporation B, a foreign entity with its principal place of business in Country G, makes a covered investment in Corporation Z, a U.S. business that designs a critical technology controlled under the EAR. Under the EAR, a license is required to export the critical technology to Country G. The license exception at 15 CFR 740.4 authorizes Corporation Z to export the critical technology to Country G without a license. Assuming no other relevant facts, the covered investment is subject to a mandatory declaration.
Example 5.
Corporation B, a foreign entity with its principal place of business in Country G, makes a covered investment in Corporation Z, a U.S. business that designs a critical technology controlled under the EAR. Under the EAR, a license is required to export the critical technology to Country G. The license exception at 15 CFR 740.4 authorizes Corporation Z to export the critical technology to Country G without a license. Assuming no other relevant facts, the covered investment is subject to a mandatory declaration.
(6) Example 6. Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation B, a U.S. business, execute a binding written agreement pursuant to which Corporation A will acquire a 10 percent equity interest in Corporation B and will be afforded the right to appoint two members of Corporation B's board of directors. As of the date of the agreement, none of the items that Corporation B manufactures constitutes a critical technology. After the agreement is executed, but prior to the completion of the transaction, a product manufactured by Corporation B is included as a defense article on the USML. Assuming no other relevant facts, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the transaction is not subject to a requirement to submit a declaration to the Committee. However for purposes of § 800.211, the transaction may be a covered investment.
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation B, a U.S. business, execute a binding written agreement pursuant to which Corporation A will acquire a 10 percent equity interest in Corporation B and will be afforded the right to appoint two members of Corporation B's board of directors. As of the date of the agreement, none of the items that Corporation B manufactures constitutes a critical technology. After the agreement is executed, but prior to the completion of the transaction, a product manufactured by Corporation B is included as a defense article on the USML. Assuming no other relevant facts, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the transaction is not subject to a requirement to submit a declaration to the Committee. However for purposes of § 800.211, the transaction may be a covered investment.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020; 85 FR 8747, Feb. 18, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57128, Sept. 15, 2020]]

§ 800.402   Voluntary declarations.

Except as otherwise prohibited under § 800.403(e), a party to any proposed or completed transaction may submit to the Committee a declaration regarding the transaction in accordance with the procedures and requirements set forth in §§ 800.403 and 800.404 instead of a written notice.

§ 800.403   Procedures for declarations.

(a) A party or parties submitting a declaration of a transaction under § 800.401 or § 800.402 shall submit electronically the information set out in § 800.404, including the certifications required thereunder, to the Staff Chairperson in accordance with the submission instructions on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(b) No communications other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute the submission of a declaration for purposes of section 721.
(c) Information and other documentary material submitted to the Committee under this section shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 800.802.
(d) Persons filing a declaration shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts, or circumstances regarding the transaction, and any material change in information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under § 800.404. Unless the Committee rejects the declaration on the basis of such material changes in accordance with § 800.406(a)(2)(i), such changes shall become part of the declaration filed by such persons under this section, and the certification required under § 800.405(d) shall apply to such changes.
(e) Parties to a transaction that have filed with the Committee a written notice regarding a transaction under § 800.501 or § 802.501 or a declaration under § 802.401 may not submit to the Committee a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction without the written approval of the Staff Chairperson.

§ 800.404   Contents of declarations.

(a) The party or parties submitting a declaration of a transaction under § 800.403 shall provide the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to all parties and to the transaction. (See also paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.)
(b) If fewer than all parties to a transaction submit a declaration, the Committee may, at its discretion, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice of the transaction under § 800.501, if the Staff Chairperson determines that the information provided by the submitting party or parties in the declaration is insufficient for the Committee to assess the transaction.
(c) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, a declaration submitted under § 800.403 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The name of the foreign person(s) and U.S. business(es) that are parties to, or, in applicable cases, the subject of, the transaction, as well as the name, telephone number, and email address of the primary point of contact for each party.
(2) The following information regarding the transaction in question:
(i) A brief description of the rationale for and nature of the transaction, including its structure (e.g., share purchase, merger, asset purchase);
e.g.,
share purchase, merger, asset purchase);
(ii) The percentage of voting interest acquired and the resulting aggregate voting interest held by the foreign person and its affiliates;
(iii) The percentage of economic interest acquired and the resulting aggregate economic interest held by the foreign person and its affiliates;
(iv) Whether the U.S. business has multiple classes of ownership, and if so, the pre- and post-transaction share ownership of the foreign person(s) in the U.S. business broken out by class;
(v) The total transaction value in U.S. dollars;
(vi) The status of the transaction, including the actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(vii) All sources of financing for the transaction; and
(viii) A copy of the definitive documentation of the transaction, or if none exists, the document establishing the material terms of the transaction.
(3) The following:
(i) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a covered transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation; and
(ii) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a foreign government-controlled transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation.
(4) A statement as to whether the foreign person will acquire any of the following with respect to the U.S. business:
(i) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the U.S. business, and if so, a brief explanation of the access and type of information;
(ii) Membership, observer rights, or nomination rights as set forth in § 800.211(b)(2), and if so, a statement as to the composition of the board or other body both before and after the completion date of the transaction;
(iii) Any involvement, other than through voting of shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the U.S. business regarding covered investment critical infrastructure, critical technologies, or sensitive personal data as set forth in § 800.211(b)(3), and if any, a statement as to the involvement in such substantive decisionmaking; or
(iv) Any rights that could result in the foreign person acquiring control of the U.S. business and, if any, a brief explanation of these rights.
(5) The following information regarding the U.S. business:
(i) Website address;
(ii) Principal place of business;
(iii) Place of incorporation or organization; and
(iv) A list of the addresses or geographic coordinates (to at least the fourth decimal) of all locations of the U.S. business, including the U.S. business' headquarters, facilities, and operating locations.
(6) With respect to the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction and any entity of which that U.S. business is a parent, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports, and the product or service categories of each, including the applicable six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Codes, Commercial and Government Entity Code (CAGE Code) assigned by the Department of Defense, and any applicable Dun and Bradstreet identification (DUNS) numbers assigned to the U.S. business, and an explanation of how the entity is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, where applicable.
(7) A statement as to whether the U.S. business produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops one or more critical technologies.
(8) A statement as to whether the U.S. business performs any of the functions with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part.
(9) A statement as to whether the U.S. business directly or indirectly maintains or collects sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens, directly or indirectly has collected or maintained sensitive personal data in the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B), or has a demonstrated business objective to collect such data in the future.
(10) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has any contracts (including any subcontracts, if known) that are currently in effect or were in effect within the past three years with any U.S. Government agency or component, or in the past 10 years if the contract included access to personally identifiable information of U.S. Government personnel. If so, provide an annex listing such contracts, including the name of the U.S. Government agency or component, the delivery order number or contract number, the primary contractor (if the U.S. business is a subcontractor), the start date, and the estimated completion date.
(11) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has any contracts (including any subcontracts, if known) that are currently in effect or were in effect within the past five years involving information, technology, or data that is classified under Executive Order 12958, as amended.
(12) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has received any grant or other funding from the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy, or participated in or collaborated on any defense or energy program or product involving one or more critical technologies, covered investment critical infrastructure, or other critical infrastructure within the past five years.
(13) A statement as to whether the U.S. business participated in a Defense Production Act Title III Program (50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.) within the past seven years.
et seq.
) within the past seven years.
(14) A statement as to whether the U.S. business has received or placed priority rated contracts or orders under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) regulation (15 CFR part 700), and the level(s) of priority of such contracts or orders (“DX” or “DO”) within the past three years.
(15) The name of the ultimate parent of the foreign person.
(16) The address of the foreign person and its ultimate parent.
(17) Complete organizational charts, both pre- and post-transaction, including information that identifies the name, principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent;
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent; and
(iv) The U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, both before and after completion of the transaction.
(18) Information regarding all foreign government ownership in the foreign person's ownership structure, including nationality and percentage of ownership, as well as any rights that a foreign government holds, directly or indirectly, with respect to the foreign person.
(19) With respect to the foreign person that is party to the transaction and any of its parents, as applicable, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports.
(20) A statement as to whether any party to the transaction has been party to another transaction previously notified or submitted to the Committee, and the case number assigned by the Committee regarding such transaction(s).
(21) A statement (including relevant jurisdiction and criminal case law number or legal citation) as to whether the U.S. business, the foreign person, any parent of the foreign person, or any person of which the foreign person is a parent has been convicted in the last 10 years of a crime in any jurisdiction.
(22) If applicable, a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of any critical technology that the U.S. business produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops, and a list of any relevant Export Control Classification Numbers (ECCNs) under the EAR and the USML categories under the ITAR, and, if applicable, identify whether there are specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810; nuclear facilities, equipment, and materials covered by 10 CFR part 110; or select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, or 42 CFR part 73.
(23) If applicable, a statement as to which functions set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part that the U.S. business performs with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure, including a description of such functions and the applicable covered investment critical infrastructure.
(24) If applicable:
(i) The category or categories of data, as specified at § 800.241, that the U.S. business directly or indirectly maintains or collects;
(ii) For each applicable category of data specified in § 800.241, individually and in the aggregate, the approximate number of total unique persons from whom:
(A) The data is currently maintained, and
(B) The data has been maintained or collected at any point during the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B);
(iii) Whether the U.S. business has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect data described in § 800.241(a)(1)(ii) of greater than one million individuals and such data is an integrated part of the U.S. business's primary products or services.
(iv) Whether the U.S. business targets or tailors products or services to any U.S. executive branch agency or military department with intelligence, national security, or homeland security responsibilities, or to personnel or contractors thereof.
(d) Each party submitting a declaration shall provide a certification of the information contained in the declaration consistent with § 800.204. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(e) A party that offers a stipulation under paragraph (c)(3) of this section acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered investment, a covered control transaction, or a foreign government-controlled transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered transaction.

§ 800.405   Beginning of 30-day assessment period.

(a) Upon receipt of a declaration submitted under § 800.403, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect the declaration and shall promptly notify in writing all parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration that:
(1) The Staff Chairperson has accepted the declaration and circulated the declaration to the Committee, and the date on which the assessment described in paragraph (b) of this section begins; or
(2) The Staff Chairperson has determined not to accept the declaration and circulate the declaration to the Committee because the declaration is incomplete, and an explanation of the material respects in which the declaration is incomplete.
(b) A 30-day period for assessment of a covered transaction that is the subject of a declaration shall commence on the date on which the declaration is received by the Committee from the Staff Chairperson. Such period shall end no later than the thirtieth day after it has commenced, or if the thirtieth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the thirtieth day.
(c) During the 30-day assessment period, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a covered transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction.
(d) If the Committee notifies the parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration under § 800.403 that the Committee intends to conclude all action under section 721 with respect to that transaction, each party that has submitted additional information subsequent to the original declaration shall file a certification as described in § 800.204. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(e) If a party fails to provide the certification required under paragraph (d) of this section, the Committee may, at its discretion, take any of the actions under § 800.407.

§ 800.406   Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.

(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any declaration that does not comply with § 800.404 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any declaration at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the declaration has been submitted and before the Committee has taken one of the actions specified in § 800.407:
(i) There is a material change in the covered transaction as to which a declaration has been submitted; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the declaration by the party (or parties); or
(3) Reject any declaration at any time after the declaration has been submitted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party (or parties) that submitted the declaration does not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within two business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the party (or parties) so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing.
(b) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the party (or parties) that submitted a declaration when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a declaration is not a covered transaction.
(c) Parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration under § 800.403 may request in writing, at any time prior to the Committee taking action under § 800.407, that such declaration be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made and state whether the transaction that is the subject of the declaration is being fully and permanently abandoned. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(d) The Committee may not request or recommend that a declaration be withdrawn and refiled, except to permit parties to a covered transaction to correct material errors or omissions, or describe material changes to the transaction, in the declaration submitted with respect to that covered transaction.
(e) A party (or parties) may not submit more than one declaration for the same or a substantially similar transaction without approval from the Staff Chairperson.
Note 1 to § 800.406:
See § 800.403(e) regarding the prohibition on submitting a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction for which a written notice has been filed without the approval of the Staff Chairperson.

§ 800.407   Committee actions.

(a) Upon receiving a declaration submitted under § 800.403 with respect to a covered transaction, the Committee may, at the discretion of the Committee:
(1) If the Committee has reason to believe that the transaction may raise national security considerations, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice under subpart E;
(2) Inform the parties to the transaction that the Committee is not able to conclude action under section 721 with respect to the transaction on the basis of the declaration and that the parties may file a written notice under subpart E to seek written notification from the Committee that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction;
(3) Initiate a unilateral review of the transaction under § 800.501(c); or
(4) Notify the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction.
(b) The Committee shall take action under paragraph (a) of this section within the time period set forth in § 800.405(b).

Subpart E—Notices


§ 800.501   Procedures for notices.

(a) Except as otherwise prohibited under paragraph (j) of this section, a party or parties to a proposed or completed transaction may file a voluntary notice of the transaction with the Committee. Voluntary notice to the Committee is filed by sending an electronic copy of the notice that includes, in English, the information set out in § 800.502, including the certification required under paragraph (l) of that section, and paying the fee required under subpart K of this part. For electronic submission instructions, see the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(b)(1) If the Committee determines that a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted under this part, and with respect to which the Committee has not informed the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721, may be a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to the transaction or other persons to provide to the Committee information necessary to determine whether the transaction is a covered transaction, whether the transaction may raise national security considerations, or, as appropriate, whether the transaction is a transaction for which a submission is or was required under § 800.401.
(2) If the Committee determines that a transaction referred to under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to file a notice of such covered transaction under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) With respect to any transaction:
(1) Any member of the Committee, or his or her designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may, subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding a transaction if:
(i) That member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations and:
(A) The Committee has not informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction; and
(B) The President has not announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction; or
(ii) The transaction is a covered transaction and:
(A) The Committee has informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction or determined that such transaction is not a covered transaction, or the President has announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction; and
(B) Either:
(1) A party to such transaction submitted false or misleading material information to the Committee in connection with the Committee's consideration of such transaction or omitted material information, including material documents, from information submitted to the Committee; or
1
) A party to such transaction submitted false or misleading material information to the Committee in connection with the Committee's consideration of such transaction or omitted material information, including material documents, from information submitted to the Committee; or
(2) A party to or the entity resulting from consummation of such transaction materially breaches (or, if the review or investigation of such transaction was initiated under section 721 before August 13, 2018, intentionally materially breaches) a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A), such breach is certified to the Committee by the lead department or agency monitoring and enforcing such agreement or condition as a material breach (or, if the review or investigation of such transaction was initiated under section 721 before August 13, 2018, an intentional material breach), and the Committee determines that there are no other adequate and appropriate remedies or enforcement tools available to address such breach.
2
) A party to or the entity resulting from consummation of such transaction materially breaches (or, if the review or investigation of such transaction was initiated under section 721 before August 13, 2018, intentionally materially breaches) a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A), such breach is certified to the Committee by the lead department or agency monitoring and enforcing such agreement or condition as a material breach (or, if the review or investigation of such transaction was initiated under section 721 before August 13, 2018, an intentional material breach), and the Committee determines that there are no other adequate and appropriate remedies or enforcement tools available to address such breach.
(2)(i) That is an investment where a foreign person is not an excepted investor due to the application of § 800.219(d), any member of the Committee, or his or her designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding such investment if:
(A) That member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered transaction and may raise national security considerations;
(B) The Committee has not informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction; and
(C) The President has not announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction.
(ii) No notice filed under this paragraph (c)(2) shall be made with respect to a transaction more than one year after the completion date of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee determines, in consultation with other members of the Committee, that because the foreign person no longer meets all the criteria set forth in § 800.219(a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii), the transaction may threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and in no event shall an agency notice under this paragraph be made with respect to such a transaction more than three years after the completion date of the transaction.
(d) Notices filed under paragraph (c) of this section are deemed accepted upon their receipt by the Staff Chairperson. No agency notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be made with respect to a transaction more than three years after the completion date of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee, in consultation with other members of the Committee, files such an agency notice.
(e) No communications other than those described in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section shall constitute the filing or submitting of a notice for purposes of section 721.
(f) Upon receipt of the electronic copy of a notice filed under paragraph (a) of this section, including the certification required by § 800.502(l), and payment of the fee required under subpart K of this part, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect such notice for completeness.
(g) Parties to a transaction are encouraged to consult with the Committee in advance of filing a notice and, in appropriate cases, to file with the Committee a draft notice or other appropriate documents to aid the Committee's understanding of the transaction and to provide an opportunity for the Committee to request additional information to be included in the notice. Any such pre-notice consultation should take place, or any draft notice should be provided, at least five business days before the filing of a voluntary notice. All information and documentary material made available to the Committee under this paragraph shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 800.802.
(h) Information and other documentary material provided by the parties to the Committee after the filing of a voluntary notice under this section shall be part of the notice, and shall be subject to the final certification required under § 800.502(m).
(i) For any voluntarily submitted draft or formal written notice that includes a stipulation under section § 800.502(o) that a transaction is a covered transaction, the Committee shall provide comments on the draft or formal written notice or accept the formal written notice of a covered transaction not later than the date that is 10 business days after the date of submission of the draft or formal written notice.
(j) No party to a transaction may file a notice under paragraph (a) of this section if the transaction has been the subject of a declaration submitted under subpart D and the Committee has not yet taken action with respect to the transaction under § 800.407.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020; 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 800.502   Contents of voluntary notices.

(a) If the parties to a transaction file a voluntary notice, they shall provide in detail the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to all parties and to the transaction. (See also paragraph (l) of this section and § 800.204 regarding certification requirements.)
(b) If fewer than all parties to a transaction file a voluntary notice, for example in the case of a hostile takeover, each notifying party shall provide the information set out in this section with respect to itself and, to the extent known or reasonably available to it, with respect to each non-notifying party.
(c) A voluntary notice filed under § 800.501 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The following information regarding the transaction in question:
(i) A summary setting forth the essentials of the transaction, including a statement of the purpose of the transaction, and its scope, both within and outside of the United States;
(ii) The nature of the transaction, for example, whether the acquisition is by merger, consolidation, the purchase of voting interest, or otherwise;
(iii) The name, United States address (if any), website address (if any), nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities), and address of the principal place of business of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(iv) The name, address, website address (if any), principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization of the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction;
(v) The name, address, and nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities) of:
(A) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(B) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(C) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent;
(vi) The name, address, website address (if any), and nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities) of each person that will control the U.S. business being acquired;
(vii) The actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(viii)(A) The value of the transaction in U.S. dollars, as determined under § 800.1103, and the parties' assessment of the applicable fee due under § 800.1101, including an explanation of the methodology used to determine such valuation and applicable fee; and
(B) If different than the value of the transaction provided in paragraph (c)(1)(viii)(A) of this section, a good faith approximation of the net value of the interest acquired in the U.S. business in U.S. dollars, as of the date of the notice.
(ix) The name of any and all financial institutions involved in the transaction, including as advisors, underwriters, or sources of financing for the transaction;
(x) A copy of any partnership agreements, integration agreements, or other side agreements relating to the transaction;
(xi) A statement as to whether the foreign person will acquire any of the following in the U.S. business:
(A) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the U.S. business, and if so, a brief explanation of the type of access and type of information;
(B) Membership, observer rights, or nomination rights as set forth in § 800.211(b)(2), and if so, a description of such rights and a statement as to the composition of the board or other body both before and after the completion date of the transaction, as well as a copy of the document(s) setting forth the post-acquisition governance provisions (e.g., quorum requirements, special rights) for the board of directors or other body;
e.g.,
quorum requirements, special rights) for the board of directors or other body;
(C) Any involvement, other than through voting of shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the U.S. business regarding covered investment critical infrastructure, critical technologies, or sensitive personal data as set forth in § 800.211(b)(3), and if so, a brief explanation of the nature and extent of involvement;
(2) With respect to a transaction structured as an acquisition of assets of a U.S. business, a detailed description of the assets of the U.S. business being acquired, including the approximate value of those assets in U.S. dollars;
(3) With respect to the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction and any entity of which that U.S. business is a parent (unless that entity is excluded from the scope of the transaction):
(i) Their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports, and the product or service categories of each, including an estimate of U.S. market share for such product or service categories and the methodology used to determine market share, a list of direct competitors for those primary product or service categories, and their NAICS Code, if any, and an explanation of how the entity is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, where applicable;
(ii) The street address (and mailing address, if different) within the United States and website address (if any) of each facility that is manufacturing classified or unclassified products or producing services described in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, and their respective CAGE Codes and DUNS number;
(iii) Each contract (identified by agency and number) that is currently in effect or was in effect within the past five years with any agency of the U.S. Government involving any information, technology, or data that is classified under Executive Order 12958, as amended, its estimated final completion date, and the name, office, and telephone number of the contracting official;
(iv) Any other contract (identified by agency and number) that is currently in effect or was in effect within the past three years with any U.S. Government agency or component with national defense, homeland security, or other national security responsibilities, including law enforcement responsibility as it relates to defense, homeland security, or national security, its estimated final completion date, and the name, office, and telephone number of the contracting official;
(v) Any products or services (including research and development):
(A) That it supplies, directly or indirectly, to any agency of the U.S. Government, including as a prime contractor or first tier subcontractor, a supplier to any such prime contractor or subcontractor, or, if known by the parties filing the notice, a subcontractor at any tier; and
(B) If known by the parties filing the notice, for which it is a single qualified source (i.e., other acceptable suppliers are readily available to be so qualified) or a sole source (i.e., no other supplier has needed technology, equipment, and manufacturing process capabilities) for any such agencies and whether there are other suppliers in the market that are available to be so qualified;
i.e.,
other acceptable suppliers are readily available to be so qualified) or a sole source (
i.e.,
no other supplier has needed technology, equipment, and manufacturing process capabilities) for any such agencies and whether there are other suppliers in the market that are available to be so qualified;
(vi) Any products or services (including research and development) that:
(A) It supplies to third parties and it knows are rebranded by the purchaser or incorporated into the products of another entity, and the names or brands under which such rebranded products or services are sold; and
(B) In the case of services, it provides on behalf of, or under the name of, another entity, and the name of any such entities;
(vii) For the prior three years—
(A) A list of priority rated contracts or orders under DPAS) regulation that the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction has received and the level of priority of such contracts or orders (“DX” or “DO”); and
(B) A list of such priority rated contracts or orders that the U.S. business has placed with other entities and the level of priority of such contracts or orders, and the acquiring party's plan to ensure that any new entity formed at the completion of the notified transaction (or the U.S. business, if no new entity is formed) complies with the DPAS regulations;
(viii) A description and copy of the cyber security plan, if any, that will be used to protect against cyber attacks on the operation, design, and development of the U.S. business's services, networks, systems, data storage (including the collection or maintenance of sensitive personal data), and facilities;
(ix) A description of whether the U.S. business performs any of the functions with respect to covered investment critical infrastructure, if any, as set forth in column 2 of appendix A to this part. This statement shall include a description of such functions, including the applicable covered investment critical infrastructure;
(x)(A) A description of whether the U.S. business produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops one or more:
(1) Items that are subject to the EAR and, if so, a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of the items and a list of the relevant commodity classifications set forth on the CCL (i.e., ECCNs or EAR99 designation);
1
) Items that are subject to the EAR and, if so, a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of the items and a list of the relevant commodity classifications set forth on the CCL (
i.e.,
ECCNs or EAR99 designation);
(2) Defense articles and defense services, and related technical data covered by the USML in the ITAR, and, if so, the category of the USML; articles and services for which commodity jurisdiction requests (22 CFR 120.4) are pending; and articles and services (including those under development) that may be designated or determined in the future to be defense articles or defense services under 22 CFR 120.3;
2
) Defense articles and defense services, and related technical data covered by the USML in the ITAR, and, if so, the category of the USML; articles and services for which commodity jurisdiction requests (22 CFR 120.4) are pending; and articles and services (including those under development) that may be designated or determined in the future to be defense articles or defense services under 22 CFR 120.3;
(3) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810;
3
) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810;
(4) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by 10 CFR part 110;
4
) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by 10 CFR part 110;
(5) Select Agents and Toxins (7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, and 42 CFR part 73); or
5
) Select Agents and Toxins (7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, and 42 CFR part 73); or
(6) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (codified at 50 U.S.C. 4817);
6
) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled under section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (codified at 50 U.S.C. 4817);
(B) A description of whether the U.S. business otherwise trades in any item described in paragraphs (c)(3)(x)(A)(1) through (6) of this section, to the extent not addressed in the voluntary notice in response to paragraph (c)(3)(x)(A) of this section; and
1
) through (
6
) of this section, to the extent not addressed in the voluntary notice in response to paragraph (c)(3)(x)(A) of this section; and
(C) For any item described in paragraphs (c)(3)(x)(A)(1) through (6) of this section for which there is no completed Commodity Classification Automated Tracking System or Commodity Jurisdiction determination, the voluntary notice shall include a brief statement as to how the parties evaluated the item (e.g., self-classification by individuals with technical knowledge at the U.S. business, classification information provided by the manufacturer, classification provided by outside counsel or third party consultant, etc.);
1
) through (
6
) of this section for which there is no completed Commodity Classification Automated Tracking System or Commodity Jurisdiction determination, the voluntary notice shall include a brief statement as to how the parties evaluated the item (
e.g.,
self-classification by individuals with technical knowledge at the U.S. business, classification information provided by the manufacturer, classification provided by outside counsel or third party consultant,
etc.
);
(xi) A description of whether the U.S. business directly or indirectly maintains or collects sensitive personal data of U.S. citizens, directly or indirectly has collected or maintained sensitive personal data in the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B), or has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect such data in the future including:
(A) The category or categories of data specified in § 800.241 that the U.S. business directly or indirectly maintains or collects or intends to maintain or collect;
(B) For each applicable category of data specified in § 800.241, individually and in the aggregate, the approximate number of total unique persons from whom:
(1) The data is currently maintained; and
1
) The data is currently maintained; and
(2) The data has been maintained or collected at any point during the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B);
2
) The data has been maintained or collected at any point during the 12 months prior to any of the applicable events specified in § 800.241(a)(1)(i)(B);
(C) Whether the U.S. business has a demonstrated business objective to maintain or collect data described in § 800.241(a)(1)(ii) of greater than one million individuals and such data is an integrated part of the U.S. business's primary products or services, and if so, please provide a brief explanation;
(D) A description of how the U.S. business targets or tailors its products or services to any U.S. executive branch agency or military department with intelligence, national security, or homeland security responsibilities, or personnel or contractors thereof;
(E) The commercial rationale of the U.S. business for maintaining or collecting such sensitive personal data and a description of how the U.S. business uses and protects such sensitive personal data, including a description of how decisions regarding the use of sensitive personal data are made, and by whom;
(F) A description of the U.S. business's policies and practices regarding the sale, license, or transfer of, or grant of access to, sensitive personal data to third parties, including a copy of any notice provided to customers regarding the use and transfer of sensitive personal data;
(G) A description of the U.S. business's policies and practices regarding retention of sensitive personal data; and
(H) Any plans by the foreign party to the transaction to alter any of the foregoing;
(4) Whether the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction:
(i) Possesses any licenses, permits, or other authorizations other than those under the regulatory authorities listed in paragraph (c)(3)(x)(A) of this section that have been granted by an agency of the U.S. Government (if applicable, identification of the relevant licenses shall be provided); or
(ii) Has technology that has military applications (if so, an identification of such technology and a description of such military applications shall be included);
(5) With respect to the foreign person engaged in the transaction and its parents:
(i) The business or businesses of the foreign person and its ultimate parent, as such businesses are described, for example, in annual reports, and the CAGE codes, NAICS codes, and DUNS numbers, if any, for such businesses;
(ii) The plans of the foreign person for the U.S. business with respect to:
(A) Reducing, eliminating, or selling research and development facilities;
(B) Changing product quality;
(C) Shutting down or moving outside of the United States facilities that are within the United States;
(D) Consolidating or selling product lines or technology;
(E) Modifying or terminating contracts referred to in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section; or
(F) Eliminating domestic supply by selling products solely to non-domestic markets;
(iii) Whether the foreign person is controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government, including as an agent or representative, or in some similar capacity, and if so, the identity of the foreign government;
(iv) Whether a foreign government or a person controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government:
(A) Has or controls ownership interests, including contingent equity interest, of the acquiring foreign person or any parent of the acquiring foreign person, and if so, the nature and amount of any such interests, and with regard to contingent equity interest, the terms and timing of conversion;
(B) Has the right or power to appoint any of the principal officers or the members of the board of directors (including other persons who perform the duties usually associated with such titles) of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction or any parent of that foreign person;
(C) Holds any other contingent interest (for example, such as might arise from a lending transaction) in the foreign acquiring party and, if so, the rights that are covered by this contingent interest, and the manner in which they would be enforced; or
(D) Has any other affirmative or negative rights or powers that could be relevant to the Committee's determination of whether the notified transaction is a foreign government-controlled transaction, and if there are any such rights or powers, their source (for example, a “golden share,” shareholders agreement, contract, statute, or regulation) and the mechanics of their operation;
(v) Any formal or informal arrangements among foreign persons that hold an ownership interest in any foreign person that is a party to the transaction or between such foreign person and other foreign persons to act in concert on particular matters affecting the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, and provide a copy of any documents that establish those rights or describe those arrangements;
(vi) For each member of the board of directors or equivalent governing body (including external directors and other persons who perform the duties usually associated with such titles) and officers (including president, senior vice president, executive vice president, and other persons who perform duties normally associated with such titles) of the acquiring foreign person engaged in the transaction and its immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents, and for any individual having an ownership interest of five percent or more in the acquiring foreign person engaged in the transaction and in the foreign person's ultimate parent, the following information:
(A) A curriculum vitae or similar professional synopsis, provided as part of the main notice, and
(B) The following “personal identifier information,” which, for privacy reasons, and to ensure limited distribution, shall be set forth in a separate document, not in the main notice:
(1) Full name (last, first, middle name);
1
) Full name (last, first, middle name);
(2) All other names and aliases used;
2
) All other names and aliases used;
(3) Business address;
3
) Business address;
(4) Country and city of residence;
4
) Country and city of residence;
(5) Date of birth, in the format MM/DD/YYYY;
5
) Date of birth, in the format MM/DD/YYYY;
(6) Place of birth;
6
) Place of birth;
(7) U.S. Social Security number (where applicable);
7
) U.S. Social Security number (where applicable);
(8) National identity number, including nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date (where applicable);
8
) National identity number, including nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date (where applicable);
(9) U.S. or foreign passport number (if more than one, all must be fully disclosed), nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date and, if a U.S. visa holder, the visa type and number, date and place of issuance, and expiration date; and
9
) U.S. or foreign passport number (if more than one, all must be fully disclosed), nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date and, if a U.S. visa holder, the visa type and number, date and place of issuance, and expiration date; and
(10) Dates and nature of foreign government and foreign military service (where applicable), other than military service at a rank below the top two non-commissioned ranks of the relevant foreign country; and
10
) Dates and nature of foreign government and foreign military service (where applicable), other than military service at a rank below the top two non-commissioned ranks of the relevant foreign country; and
(vii) The following “business identifier information” for the immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents of the foreign person engaged in the transaction, including their main offices and branches:
(A) Business name, including all names under which the business is known to be or has been doing business;
(B) Business address;
(C) Business phone number, website address, and email address; and
(D) Employer identification number or other domestic tax or corporate identification number.
(d)(1) The voluntary notice shall list any filings with, or reports to, agencies of the U.S. Government that have been or will be made with respect to the transaction prior to its completion, indicating the agencies concerned, the nature of the filing or report, the date on which it was filed or the estimated date by which it will be filed, and a relevant contact point and/or telephone number within the agency, if known.
(2) Example: Corporation A, a foreign person, intends to acquire Corporation X, which is wholly owned and controlled by a U.S. national and which has a Facility Security Clearance under the Department of Defense Industrial Security Program. See Department of Defense, “Industrial Security Regulation,” DOD 5220.22-R, and “Industrial Security Manual for Safeguarding Classified Information,” DOD 5220.22-M. Corporation X accordingly files a revised Form DD SF-328, and enters into discussions with the Defense Security Service about effectively insulating its facilities from the foreign person. Corporation X may also have made filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Commerce, the Department of State, or other federal departments and agencies. This paragraph (d) requires that certain specific information about these filings be reported to the Committee in a voluntary notice.
(e) In the case of the establishment of a joint venture in which one or more of the parties is contributing a U.S. business, information for the voluntary notice shall be prepared on the assumption that the foreign person that is party to the joint venture has made an acquisition of the existing U.S. business that the other party to the joint venture is contributing or transferring to the joint venture. The voluntary notice shall describe the name and address of the joint venture and the entities that established, or are establishing, the joint venture.
(f) In the case of the acquisition of some but not all of the assets of an entity, paragraph (c) of this section requires submission of the specified information only with respect to the assets of the entity that have been or are proposed to be acquired.
(g) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall, with respect to the foreign person that is a party to the transaction, its immediate parent, the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, and each entity of which the foreign person is a parent, append to the voluntary notice the most recent annual report of each such entity, in English. Separate reports are not required for any entity whose financial results are included within the consolidated financial results stated in the annual report of any parent of any such entity, unless the transaction involves the acquisition of a U.S. business whose parent is not being acquired, in which case the notice shall include the most recent audited financial statement of the U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction. If a U.S. business does not prepare an annual report and its financial results are not included within the consolidated financial results stated in the annual report of a parent, the filing shall include, if available, the entity's most recent audited financial statement (or, if an audited financial statement is not available, the unaudited financial statement).
(h) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee or the President, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts and circumstances addressed in the notice, and information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under this section, and shall file amendments to the notice to reflect such material changes. Such amendments shall become part of the notice filed by such persons under § 800.501, and the certifications required under paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section shall apply to such amendments.
(i) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall include a copy of the most recent asset or stock purchase agreement or other document establishing the agreed terms of the transaction.
(j) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall include:
(1) Complete organizational charts, both pre- and post-transaction, including information that identifies the name, principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent;
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent; and
(iv) The U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, both before and after completion of the transaction; and
(2) The opinion of the person regarding whether:
(i) It is a foreign person;
(ii) It is controlled by a foreign government;
(iii) A foreign government holds a substantial interest in the foreign person that is party to the transaction; and
(iv) The transaction has resulted or could result in a covered control transaction or a covered investment, and the reasons for its view, focusing in particular on any powers (for example, by virtue of a shareholders agreement, contract, statute, or regulation) that the foreign person will have with regard to the U.S. business, and how those powers can or will be exercised, or any other access, rights, or involvement the foreign person will have in a U.S. business with respect to critical technologies, covered investment critical infrastructure, or sensitive personal data.
(k) Persons filing a voluntary notice shall include information as to whether:
(1) Any party to the transaction is, or has been, a party to a mitigation agreement entered into or condition imposed under section 721, and if so, shall specify the date and purpose of such agreement or condition and the U.S. Government signatories; and
(2) Any party to the transaction (including such party's parents, subsidiaries, or entities under common control with the party) has been a party to a transaction previously notified to the Committee.
(l) Each party filing a voluntary notice shall provide a certification of the notice consistent with § 800.204. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(m) At the conclusion of a review or investigation, each party that has filed additional information subsequent to the original notice shall file a final certification. (See § 800.204.) A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(n) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include with the notice a list identifying each document provided as part of the notice, including all documents provided as attachments or exhibits to the narrative response.
(o) A party filing a voluntary notice may stipulate that the transaction is a covered transaction and, if the party stipulates that the transaction is a covered transaction, that the transaction is a foreign government-controlled transaction. A stipulation offered by any party under this section must be accompanied by a detailed description of the basis for the stipulation. The required description of the basis shall include discussion of all relevant information responsive to paragraphs (c)(5)(iii) through (v) of this section. A party that offers such a stipulation acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered transaction, a foreign government-controlled transaction, and/or subject to mandatory declaration or notice for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered transaction.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020; 85 FR 8747, Feb. 18, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020]]

§ 800.503   Beginning of 45-day review period.

(a) The Staff Chairperson shall accept a voluntary notice the next business day after the Staff Chairperson has:
(1) Determined that the notice complies with § 800.502;
(2) Confirmed that the applicable fee required under subpart K of this part has been received by the Department of the Treasury, or waived; and
(3) Disseminated the notice to all members of the Committee.
(b) A 45-day period for review of a transaction shall commence on the date on which the voluntary notice has been accepted, agency notice has been received by the Staff Chairperson, or the Chairperson of the Committee has requested a notice under § 800.501(b). Such review shall end no later than the forty-fifth day after it has commenced, or if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly advise in writing all parties to a transaction that have filed a voluntary notice of:
(1) The acceptance of the notice;
(2) The date on which the review begins; and
(3) The designation of any lead agency or agencies.
(d) Within two business days after receipt of an agency notice by the Staff Chairperson, the Staff Chairperson shall send written advice of such notice to the parties to the transaction that is subject to the notice. Such written advice shall identify the date on which the review began.
(e) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly circulate to all Committee members any draft pre-filing notice, any agency notice, any complete notice, and any subsequent information filed by the parties.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020]]

§ 800.504   Deferral, rejection, or disposition of certain voluntary notices.

(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any voluntary notice that does not comply with § 800.501 or § 800.502 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any voluntary notice at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the notice has been submitted and before action by the Committee or the President has been concluded:
(i) There is a material change in the transaction as to which notification has been made; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the notice by the parties;
(3) Reject any voluntary notice at any time upon determining that the filing fee paid by the parties was insufficient under subpart K of this part, subject to § 800.1108;
(4) Reject any voluntary notice at any time after the notice has been accepted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party or parties that have submitted the voluntary notice do not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within three business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the parties so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing;
(5) Reject any voluntary notice before the conclusion of a review or investigation, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if one of the parties submitting the voluntary notice has not submitted the final certification required by § 800.502(m); or
(6) Reject any voluntary notice at any time after the notice has been accepted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the Committee has proposed risk mitigation terms, including revisions to such terms, and if the Staff Chairperson has imposed a time frame for responding to such terms as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, to the party or parties that submitted the notice, and the party or parties have failed to substantively respond to such terms within the time frame specified.
(b) Notwithstanding the authority of the Staff Chairperson under paragraph (a) of this section to reject an incomplete notice, the Staff Chairperson may defer acceptance of the notice, and the beginning of the review period specified by § 800.503, to obtain any information required under this section that has not been submitted by the notifying party or parties or other parties to the transaction. Where necessary to obtain such information, the Staff Chairperson may inform any non-notifying party or parties that notice has been filed with respect to a transaction involving the party, and request that certain information required under this section, as specified by the Staff Chairperson, be provided to the Committee within seven days after receipt of the Staff Chairperson's request.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the parties when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a voluntary notice is not a covered transaction.
(d) The Staff Chairperson may impose a time frame of no fewer than three business days for the party or parties to provide a substantive response to proposed risk mitigation terms, including revisions to such terms. The time frame may be extended if the parties so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing. In determining whether to impose such a time frame, the Staff Chairperson may consider:
(1) The statutory deadline for completing an investigation under section 721(b)(2)(C)(i);
(2) The risk to the national security of the United States arising from the transaction;
(3) The party's or parties' responsiveness to the Committee;
(4) The nature of the transaction;
(5) The appropriateness of suspending, or imposing conditions on, the transaction under section 721(l); and
l
); and
(6) Other such factors the Staff Chairperson may determine to be appropriate in connection with a specific transaction.
(e) Examples:
(1) Example 1. The Staff Chairperson receives a joint notice from Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a company that is owned and controlled by U.S. nationals, with respect to Corporation A's intent to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X. The joint notice does not contain any information described under § 800.502 concerning classified materials and products or services supplied to the U.S. military services. The Staff Chairperson may reject the notice or defer the start of the review period until the parties have supplied the omitted information.
Example 1.
The Staff Chairperson receives a joint notice from Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a company that is owned and controlled by U.S. nationals, with respect to Corporation A's intent to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X. The joint notice does not contain any information described under § 800.502 concerning classified materials and products or services supplied to the U.S. military services. The Staff Chairperson may reject the notice or defer the start of the review period until the parties have supplied the omitted information.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the first sentence of Example 1 of this section, except that the joint notice indicates that Corporation A does not intend to purchase Corporation X's Division Y, which is engaged in classified work for a U.S. Government agency. Corporations A and X notify the Committee on the 40th day of the 45-day notice period that Division Y will also be acquired by Corporation A. This fact constitutes a material change with respect to the transaction as originally notified, and the Staff Chairperson may reject the notice.
Example 2.
Same facts as the first sentence of Example 1 of this section, except that the joint notice indicates that Corporation A does not intend to purchase Corporation X's Division Y, which is engaged in classified work for a U.S. Government agency. Corporations A and X notify the Committee on the 40th day of the 45-day notice period that Division Y will also be acquired by Corporation A. This fact constitutes a material change with respect to the transaction as originally notified, and the Staff Chairperson may reject the notice.
(3) Example 3. The Staff Chairperson receives a joint notice by Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, indicating that Corporation A intends to purchase five percent of the voting securities of Corporation X. Under the particular facts and circumstances presented, the Committee concludes that Corporation A's purchase of this interest in Corporation X could not result in a covered investment in or foreign control of Corporation X. The Staff Chairperson shall advise the parties in writing that the transaction as presented is not subject to section 721.
Example 3.
The Staff Chairperson receives a joint notice by Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a U.S. business, indicating that Corporation A intends to purchase five percent of the voting securities of Corporation X. Under the particular facts and circumstances presented, the Committee concludes that Corporation A's purchase of this interest in Corporation X could not result in a covered investment in or foreign control of Corporation X. The Staff Chairperson shall advise the parties in writing that the transaction as presented is not subject to section 721.
(4) Example 4. The Staff Chairperson receives a voluntary notice involving the acquisition by Company A, a foreign person, of the entire interest in Company X, a U.S. business. The notice mentions the involvement of a second foreign person in the transaction, Company B, but states that Company B is merely a passive investor in the transaction. During the course of the review, the parties provide information that clarifies that Company B has the right to appoint two members of Company X's board of directors. This information contradicts the material assertion in the notice that Company B is a passive investor. The Committee may reject this notice without concluding review under section 721.
Example 4.
The Staff Chairperson receives a voluntary notice involving the acquisition by Company A, a foreign person, of the entire interest in Company X, a U.S. business. The notice mentions the involvement of a second foreign person in the transaction, Company B, but states that Company B is merely a passive investor in the transaction. During the course of the review, the parties provide information that clarifies that Company B has the right to appoint two members of Company X's board of directors. This information contradicts the material assertion in the notice that Company B is a passive investor. The Committee may reject this notice without concluding review under section 721.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020; 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 800.505   Determination of whether to undertake an investigation.

(a) After a review of a notified transaction under § 800.503, the Committee shall undertake an investigation of any transaction that it has determined to be a covered transaction if:
(1) A member of the Committee (other than a member designated as ex officio under section 721(k)) advises the Staff Chairperson that the member believes that the transaction threatens to impair the national security of the United States and that the threat has not been mitigated; or
(2) The lead agency recommends, and the Committee concurs, that an investigation be undertaken.
(b) The Committee shall also undertake, after a review of a covered transaction under § 800.503, an investigation to determine the effects on national security of any covered transaction that:
(1) Is a foreign government-controlled transaction; or
(2) Would result in control by a foreign person of critical infrastructure of or within the United States, if the Committee determines that the transaction could impair national security and such impairment has not been mitigated.
(c) The Committee shall undertake an investigation as described in paragraph (b) of this section unless the Chairperson of the Committee (or the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury) and the head of any lead agency (or his or her delegee at the deputy level or equivalent) designated by the Chairperson determine on the basis of the review that the covered transaction will not impair the national security of the United States.

§ 800.506   Determination not to undertake an investigation.

If the Committee determines, during the review period described in § 800.503, not to undertake an investigation of a notified covered transaction, action under section 721 shall be concluded. An official at the Department of the Treasury shall promptly inform the parties to a covered transaction in writing of a determination of the Committee not to undertake an investigation and to conclude action under section 721.

§ 800.507   Commencement of investigation.

(a) If it is determined that an investigation should be undertaken, such investigation shall commence no later than the end of the review period described in § 800.503.
(b) An official of the Department of the Treasury shall promptly inform the parties to a covered transaction in writing of the commencement of an investigation.

§ 800.508   Completion or termination of investigation and report to the President.

(a) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the Committee shall complete an investigation no later than the forty-fifth day after the date the investigation commences, or, if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.
(b) Upon completion or termination of any investigation, the Committee shall send a report to the President requesting the President's decision if:
(1) The Committee recommends that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction;
(2) The Committee is unable to reach a decision on whether to recommend that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction; or
(3) The Committee requests that the President make a determination with regard to the transaction.
(c) In circumstances when the Committee sends a report to the President requesting the President's decision with respect to a covered transaction, such report shall include information relevant to sections 721(d)(4)(A) and (B), and shall present the Committee's recommendation. If the Committee is unable to reach a decision to present a single recommendation to the President, the Chairperson of the Committee shall submit a report of the Committee to the President setting forth the differing views and presenting the issues for decision.
(d) Upon completion or termination of an investigation, if the Committee determines to conclude all deliberative action under section 721 with regard to a notified covered transaction without sending a report to the President, action under section 721 shall be concluded. An official at the Department of the Treasury shall promptly advise the parties to such a transaction in writing of a determination to conclude action.
(e) In extraordinary circumstances, the Chairperson may, upon a written request signed by the head of a lead agency, extend an investigation for one 15-day period. A request to extend an investigation must describe, with particularity, the extraordinary circumstances that warrant the Chairperson extending the investigation. The authority of the head of a lead agency to request the extension of an investigation may not be delegated to any person other than the deputy head (or equivalent thereof) of the lead agency. If the Chairperson extends an investigation under this paragraph with respect to a covered transaction, the Committee shall promptly notify the parties to the transaction of the extension.
(f) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the term extraordinary circumstances means circumstances for which extending an investigation is necessary and the appropriate course of action, in the Chairperson's discretion, due to a force majeure event or to protect the national security of the United States.
extraordinary circumstances
means circumstances for which extending an investigation is necessary and the appropriate course of action, in the Chairperson's discretion, due to a force majeure event or to protect the national security of the United States.

§ 800.509   Withdrawal of notices.

(a) A party (or parties) to a transaction that has filed notice under § 800.501(a) may request in writing, at any time prior to conclusion of all action under section 721, that such notice be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made. Such requests will ordinarily be granted, unless otherwise determined by the Committee. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(b) Any request to withdraw an agency notice by the agency that filed it shall be in writing and shall be effective only upon approval by the Committee. An official of the Department of the Treasury shall advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision to approve the withdrawal request within two business days of the Committee's decision.
(c) In any case where a request to withdraw a notice is granted under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The Staff Chairperson, in consultation with the Committee, shall establish, as appropriate:
(i) A process for tracking actions that may be taken by any party to the covered transaction before a notice is refiled under § 800.501; and
(ii) Interim protections to address specific national security concerns with the covered transaction identified during the review or investigation of the covered transaction.
(2) The Staff Chairperson shall specify a time frame, as appropriate, for the parties to resubmit a notice and shall advise the parties of that time frame in writing.
(d) A notice of a transaction that is submitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be deemed a new notice for purposes of the regulations in this part, including § 800.701.

Subpart F—Committee Procedures


§ 800.601   General.

(a) In any assessment, review, or investigation of a covered transaction, the Committee should consider the factors specified in section 721(f) and, as appropriate, require the parties to provide to the Committee the information necessary to consider such factors. The Committee's assessment, review, or investigation (if necessary) shall examine, as appropriate, whether:
(1) The transaction is a covered transaction;
(2) There is credible evidence to support a belief that any foreign person party to a covered transaction might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States; and
(3) Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, provide adequate and appropriate authority to protect the national security of the United States.
(b) During an assessment, review, or investigation, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a notified transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction. During an investigation, a party to the transaction under investigation may request a meeting with the Committee staff; such a request ordinarily will be granted.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall be the point of contact for receiving material filed with the Committee, including notices and declarations.
(d) Where more than one lead agency is designated, communications on material matters between a party to the transaction and a lead agency shall include all lead agencies designated with regard to those matters.
(e) The parties' description of a transaction in a declaration or notice does not limit the ability of the Committee to, as appropriate, assess, review, or investigate, or exercise any other authorities available under section 721 with respect to any covered transaction that the Committee identifies as having been notified to the Committee based upon the facts set forth in the declaration or notice, any additional information provided to the Committee subsequent to the original declaration or notice, or any other information available to the Committee.

§ 800.602   Role of the Secretary of Labor.

In response to a request from the Chairperson of the Committee, the Secretary of Labor shall identify for the Committee any risk mitigation provisions proposed to or by the Committee that would violate U.S. employment laws or require a party to violate U.S. employment laws. The Secretary of Labor shall serve no policy role on the Committee.

§ 800.603   Materiality.

The Committee generally will not consider as material minor inaccuracies, omissions, or changes relating to financial or commercial factors not having a bearing on national security.

§ 800.604   Tolling of deadlines during lapse in appropriations.

Any deadline or time limitation under subpart D or E imposed on the Committee shall be tolled during a lapse in appropriations.

Subpart G—Finality of Action


§ 800.701   Finality of actions under section 721.

(a) All authority available to the President or the Committee under section 721(d), including divestment authority, shall remain available at the discretion of the President with respect to:
(1) Covered control transactions proposed or pending on or after August 23, 1988;
(2) Transactions that, between November 10, 2018, and February 12, 2020, fell within the scope of part 801 of this title; and
(3) Covered investments proposed or pending after February 13, 2020.
(b) Subject to § 800.501(c)(1)(ii), such authority shall not be exercised if:
(1) Subject to § 800.219(d), the Committee, through its Staff Chairperson, has advised a party (or the parties) in writing that a particular transaction with respect to which a voluntary notice or a declaration has been filed is not a covered transaction;
(2) The parties to the transaction have been advised in writing under § 800.407(a)(4), § 800.506, or § 800.508(d) that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the covered transaction; or
(3) The President has previously announced, under section 721(d), his or her decision not to exercise his or her authority under section 721 with respect to the covered transaction.
(c) Divestment or other relief under section 721 shall not be available with respect to transactions that were completed prior to August 23, 1988.

Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information


§ 800.801   Obligation of parties or other persons to provide information.

(a) This paragraph (a) sets forth requirements for parties to a transaction or other persons to provide information to the Staff Chairperson or requesting lead agency in the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Parties to a transaction that is notified or declared under subpart D or E of this part shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to conduct a full assessment, review, and/or investigation of the transaction.
(2) For a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted and for which the Staff Chairperson has requested information as provided for in § 800.501(b), parties to the transaction or other persons shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to determine:
(i) Whether the transaction is a covered transaction;
(ii) Whether the transaction may raise national security considerations; or
(iii) As appropriate, whether the transaction is a transaction for which a submission is or was required under § 800.401.
(3) Independent of any obligations under an agreement, condition, or order authorized under section 721(l), parties shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson or the requesting lead agency so as to enable the Committee to assess compliance with section 721 and the regulations in this part or to monitor compliance with, enforce or modify the terms of, or decide to terminate any agreement entered into, condition imposed, or order issued.
l
), parties shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson or the requesting lead agency so as to enable the Committee to assess compliance with section 721 and the regulations in this part or to monitor compliance with, enforce or modify the terms of, or decide to terminate any agreement entered into, condition imposed, or order issued.
(4) Any person that has submitted information to the Committee shall respond to requests from the Staff Chairperson for information to enable the Committee to determine whether the person made any material misstatement or omitted material information from any such submission.
(5) Parties to a transaction that have filed information with the Committee shall promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes to such information.
(6) If deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may obtain information from parties to a transaction or other persons through subpoena or otherwise, under the Defense Production Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(a)).
(b) Documentary materials or information required or requested to be filed with the Committee under this part shall be submitted in English. Supplementary materials, such as annual reports, written in a foreign language shall be submitted in certified English translation.
(c) Any information filed with the Committee in connection with any action for which a report is required under section 721(l)(6)(B) with respect to the implementation of a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A) shall be accompanied by a certification that complies with the requirements of section 721(n) and § 800.204. A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93184, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 800.802   Confidentiality.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any information or documentary material submitted or filed with the Committee under this part, including information or documentary material filed under § 800.501(g), shall be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552 et seq.), and no such information or documentary material may be made public.
et seq.
), and no such information or documentary material may be made public.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not prohibit disclosure of the following:
(1) Information relevant to any administrative or judicial action or proceeding;
(2) Information to Congress or to any duly authorized committee or subcommittee of Congress;
(3) Information important to the national security analysis or actions of the Committee to any domestic governmental entity, or to any foreign governmental entity of a United States ally or partner, under the exclusive direction and authorization of the Chairperson, only to the extent necessary for national security purposes, and subject to appropriate confidentiality and classification requirements; or
(4) Information that the parties have consented to be disclosed to third parties.
(c) This section shall continue to apply with respect to information and documentary material submitted or filed with the Committee in any case where:
(1) Action has concluded under section 721 concerning a notified transaction;
(2) A request to withdraw a notice or a declaration is granted under § 800.509 or § 800.406(c), respectively, or where a notice or a declaration has been rejected under § 800.504(a) or § 800.406(a), respectively;
(3) The Committee determines that a notified or declared transaction is not a covered transaction; or
(4) Such information or documentary material was filed under subpart D and the parties do not subsequently file a notice under subpart E.
(d) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the public disclosure by a party of documentary material or information that it has submitted or filed with the Committee. Any such documentary material or information so disclosed may subsequently be reflected in the public statements of the Chairperson, who is authorized to communicate with the public and the Congress on behalf of the Committee, or of the Chairperson's designee.
(e) The provisions of the Defense Production Act Reauthorization of 2003, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(d)) relating to fines and imprisonment shall apply with respect to the disclosure of information or documentary material filed with the Committee under these regulations.

Subpart I—Penalties and Damages


§ 800.901   Penalties and damages.

(a)(1) Any person who submits a declaration or notice with a material misstatement or omission or makes a false certification under § 800.404, § 800.405, or § 800.502 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 per violation.
(2) Any person who, in response to a request from the Staff Chairperson or a lead agency, submits to the Committee any information pursuant to § 800.801(a)(2), (3), or (4) or (c) with a material misstatement or omission may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 per violation. This paragraph (a)(2) shall apply only with respect to responses to requests that were made in writing, specified a time frame for response, and indicated the applicability of this paragraph (a).
(3) The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation as provided for in this paragraph (a) shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(b) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of § 800.401 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(c)(1) Any person who, after December 22, 2008, violates, intentionally or through gross negligence, a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into before October 11, 2018, with, a material condition imposed before October 11, 2018, by, or an order issued before October 11, 2018, by, the United States under section 721(l) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 per violation or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 per violation or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(2) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after October 11, 2018, and before December 26, 2024, with, a material condition imposed on or after October 11, 2018, and before December 26, 2024, by, or an order issued on or after October 11, 2018, and before December 26, 2024, by, the United States under section 721(l) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed $250,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed $250,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(3)(i) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after December 26, 2024, with, a material condition imposed on or after December 26, 2024, by, or an order issued on or after December 26, 2024, by, the United States under section 721(l) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed the greatest of:
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed the greatest of:
(A) $5,000,000;
(B) The value of the person's interest in the U.S. business (or, as applicable, the parent of the U.S. business) at the time of the transaction;
(C) The value of the person's interest in the U.S. business (or, as applicable, the parent of the U.S. business) at the time of the violation in question or the most proximate time to the violation for which assessing such value is practicable; or
(D) The value of the transaction filed with the Committee.
(ii) For clarification, under paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, whichever penalty amount is greatest may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(d) A mitigation agreement entered into or amended under section 721(l) after December 22, 2008, may include a provision providing for liquidated or actual damages for breaches of the agreement. The mitigation agreement shall specify the amount of any liquidated damages that are a reasonable assessment of the harm to the national security that could result from a breach of the agreement. Any mitigation agreement containing a liquidated damages provision shall include a provision specifying that the Committee may consider the severity of the breach in deciding whether to seek a lesser amount than that stipulated in the agreement.
(e) A determination to impose penalties under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section must be made by the Committee. Notice of the penalty, including a written explanation of the conduct to be penalized and the amount of the penalty, shall be sent to the subject person electronically and by U.S. mail or courier service. Notice shall be deemed to have been effected by the earlier of the date of electronic transmission and the date of receipt of U.S. mail or courier service. For the purposes of this section, the term subject person means the person or persons who may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty.
subject person
means the person or persons who may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty.
(f) Upon receiving notice of a penalty to be imposed under any of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the subject person may, within 20 business days of receipt of such notice, submit a petition for reconsideration to the Staff Chairperson, including a defense, justification, or explanation for the conduct to be penalized. The Committee will review the petition and issue any final penalty determination within 20 business days of receipt of the petition. The Staff Chairperson and the subject person may extend either such period through written agreement or, where there is a compelling circumstance and it is deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may extend either period by notifying the subject person in writing of the extended time frame. The Committee and the subject person may reach an agreement on an appropriate remedy at any time before the Committee issues any final penalty determination.
(g) The penalties and damages authorized in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section may be recovered in a civil action brought by the United States in federal district court.
(h) Section 2 of the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001), shall apply to all information provided to the Committee under section 721, including by any party to a covered transaction.
(i) The penalties and damages available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, available under law.
(j) The imposition of a civil monetary penalty or damages under these regulations creates a debt due to the U.S. Government. The Department of the Treasury may take action to collect the penalty or damages assessed if not paid within the time prescribed by the Committee and notified to the applicable party or parties. In addition or instead, the matter may be referred to the Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty or damages.
[[85 FR 3124, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93185, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 800.902   Effect of lack of compliance.

If, at any time after a mitigation agreement or condition is entered into or imposed under section 721(l), the Committee or a lead agency in coordination with the Staff Chairperson, as the case may be, determines that a party or parties to the agreement or condition are not in compliance with the terms of the agreement or condition, the Committee or a lead agency in coordination with the Staff Chairperson may, in addition to the authority of the Committee to impose penalties under section 721(h) and to unilaterally initiate a review of any covered transaction under section 721(b)(1)(D)(iii):
(a) Negotiate a plan of action for the party or parties to remediate the lack of compliance, with failure to abide by the plan or otherwise remediate the lack of compliance serving as the basis for the Committee to find a material breach of the agreement or condition;
(b) Require that the party or parties submit a written notice or declaration under clause (i) of section 721(b)(1)(C) with respect to a covered transaction initiated after the date of the determination of noncompliance and before the date that is five years after the date of the determination to the Committee to initiate a review of the transaction under section 721(b); or
(c) Seek injunctive relief.

Subpart J—Foreign National Security Investment Review Regimes


§ 800.1001   Determinations.

(a) The Committee may determine at any time that a foreign state has established and is effectively utilizing a robust process to analyze foreign investments for national security risks and to facilitate coordination with the United States on matters relating to investment security.
(b) The Committee may rescind a determination under paragraph (a) of this section if the Committee determines that such a rescission is appropriate.
(c) The Chairperson of the Committee shall publish a notice of any determination or rescission of a determination under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, respectively, in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.

§ 800.1002   Effect of determinations.

(a) A determination under § 800.1001(a) shall take effect immediately upon publication of a notice of such determination under § 800.1001(c) and remain in effect unless rescinded under § 800.1001(b).
(b) A rescission of a determination under § 800.1001(b) shall take effect on the date specified in the notice published under § 800.1001(c).
(c) A determination under § 800.1001(a) does not apply to any transaction for which a declaration or notice has been accepted by the Staff Chairperson under § 800.405(a)(1) or § 800.503(a), respectively.
(d) A rescission of a determination under § 800.1001(b) does not apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date is prior to the date upon which the rescission of a determination under paragraph (b) of this section becomes effective; or
(2) The following has occurred before publication of the rescission of determination under § 800.1001(c):
(i) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction that is ultimately consummated;
(ii) A party has made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of a U.S. business; or
(iii) A shareholder has solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of a U.S. business or has requested the conversion of convertible voting securities.

Subpart K—Filing Fees

[Source:85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
85 FR 23740, Apr. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

§ 800.1101   Amount of fee.

Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the parties filing a formal written notice of a transaction with the Committee under § 800.501(a) on or after May 1, 2020, shall pay a filing fee as follows:
(a) Where the value of the transaction is less than $500,000: No fee;
(b) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $500,000 but less than $5,000,000: $750;
(c) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $5,000,000 but less than $50,000,000: $7,500;
(d) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $50,000,000 but less than $250,000,000: $75,000;
(e) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $250,000,000 but less than $750,000,000: $150,000;
(f) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $750,000,000: $300,000.

§ 800.1102   Timing of payment.

Subject to §§ 800.1106 through 800.1108, the Staff Chairperson shall not accept a formal written notice under § 800.503(a) until payment of any fee required under this subpart is received by the Department of the Treasury in the manner specified on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.

§ 800.1103   Valuation.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the value of the transaction for purposes of determining the required fee amount in this subpart means the total value of all consideration that has been or will be provided in the context of the transaction by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction, including cash, assets, shares or other ownership interests, debt forgiveness, or services or other in-kind consideration.
(b) Determining the value of consideration:
(1) Where the consideration is or includes securities traded on a national securities exchange, the value of the securities is the closing price on the national securities exchange on which the securities are primarily traded on the trading day immediately prior to the date the parties file the formal written notice with the Committee under § 800.501(a), or if the securities were not traded on that day, the last published closing price.
(2) Where the consideration is or includes other non-cash assets, services, interests, or other in-kind consideration, the value of the assets, services, interests, or other in-kind consideration is their fair market value as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(3) Where the transaction is or includes a lending transaction, the consideration includes the cash value of the loan, or similar financing arrangement, made available or provided by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction.
(4) Where the transaction is or includes the conversion of a contingent equity interest previously acquired by a foreign person that is a party to the transaction, the consideration includes what was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to initially acquire the contingent equity interest, in addition to any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.
(c) Exceptions:
(1) To the extent the consideration to be provided by the foreign person has not been or cannot reasonably be determined as of the date the parties file the notice, the value of the transaction includes, with respect to the interest for which consideration has not been determined, the fair market value of the interest being acquired in the transaction as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
Note 1 to § 800.1103(
c
)(1):
The consideration amount may be determined notwithstanding minor standard adjustments that are to be made at closing.
(2) Where the transaction involves a merger or the contribution of one or more U.S. businesses to a joint venture, the value of the transaction is the fair market value of the U.S. business(es) being merged or contributed.
(3) Where the value of a transaction is $5,000,000 or more, but the transaction includes one or more non-U.S. businesses, and the value of the interest acquired in the U.S. business is less than $5,000,000, the filing fee under § 800.1101(b) is applicable. The value of the U.S. business, for purposes of this paragraph, is the fair market value of the assets of the U.S. business.
(d) Fair market value means the price that would be received in exchange for sale of an interest, or paid to receive a service or to transfer liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants.
(1) In determining fair market value, parties shall make a good faith estimate and generally may rely on the last valuation as presented in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or other widely recognized accounting principles, such as the International Financial Reporting Standards, or the valuation of an independent appraiser; provided, however, that if no valuation has occurred within the prior two fiscal quarters, or if there have been significant changes to the fair market value since the last valuation, the parties shall make a good faith estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice, or, if the parties are filing after the completion of the transaction, the completion date of the transaction.
(2) In determining the fair market value of services, the parties may rely upon the value of services determined by the parties as set forth in an executed written agreement, or make an estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice based upon rates charged to third parties or upon recent industry reports or other sources of comparable commercial data; provided, however, if such sources are unavailable, the parties shall make a good faith estimate. If the parties are filing after completion of the transaction, the parties shall make an estimate of the fair market value as of the completion date.
(3) The Staff Chairperson is not bound by the parties' characterization of the transaction and its value or the parties' good faith approximation provided to the Committee under § 800.502(c)(1)(viii).
(e) Multiple-phase and contingent equity interest transactions:
(1) Where a transaction will be effectuated in multiple phases, the value of the transaction includes the total value of the multiple phases, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(2) Where a transaction is or includes the acquisition of contingent equity interest, the value of the transaction includes the consideration that was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to acquire the contingent equity interest, and, if the conditions that lead to conversion will occur imminently, the conditions are within the control of the acquiring party, and the consideration for the interest that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition, any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.
Note 2 to § 800.1103(
e
)(2):
See § 800.1103(b)(4) regarding consideration for a contingent equity interest where the interest has been converted to equity.
(f) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, in exchange for $100,000,000 in cash. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $100,000,000, and the filing fee is $75,000.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, in exchange for $100,000,000 in cash. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $100,000,000, and the filing fee is $75,000.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, in a two-for-one stock swap transaction whereby a holder of a share of Corporation B's stock is entitled to receive two shares of Corporation A's stock. Corporation A's stock is listed on the NASDAQ, a national securities exchange. In aggregate, the holders of Corporation B's stock will receive 10,000,000 shares of Corporation A's stock in the transaction. On the trading day immediately prior to the filing of the formal written notice, the closing price of Corporation A's stock on NASDAQ was $20 per share. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $200,000,000, and the filing fee is $75,000.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business, in a two-for-one stock swap transaction whereby a holder of a share of Corporation B's stock is entitled to receive two shares of Corporation A's stock. Corporation A's stock is listed on the NASDAQ, a national securities exchange. In aggregate, the holders of Corporation B's stock will receive 10,000,000 shares of Corporation A's stock in the transaction. On the trading day immediately prior to the filing of the formal written notice, the closing price of Corporation A's stock on NASDAQ was $20 per share. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $200,000,000, and the filing fee is $75,000.
(3) Example 3. Corporation B, a U.S. business, is issuing new shares that will represent 50 percent of its issued and outstanding shares. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire these shares. As consideration, Corporation A will contribute to Corporation B certain inventory, machines, and intellectual property. The parties to the transaction estimate in good faith, based on the most recent quarterly financial statements of Corporation A, which were prepared in accordance with GAAP, that the fair market value of the assets contributed as consideration is $40,000,000. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $40,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
Example 3.
Corporation B, a U.S. business, is issuing new shares that will represent 50 percent of its issued and outstanding shares. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire these shares. As consideration, Corporation A will contribute to Corporation B certain inventory, machines, and intellectual property. The parties to the transaction estimate in good faith, based on the most recent quarterly financial statements of Corporation A, which were prepared in accordance with GAAP, that the fair market value of the assets contributed as consideration is $40,000,000. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $40,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A and Corporation B are establishing a joint venture, JV Corp., which will be controlled by Corporation B, a foreign person. Corporation A contributes a U.S. business, the fair market value of which is $150,000,000, to JV Corp. Corporation B contributes $150,000,000 in cash to JV Corp. The value of the transaction is $150,000,000, which is equal to the value of the U.S. business being contributed. Assuming no other relevant facts, the filing fee is $75,000.
Example 4.
Corporation A and Corporation B are establishing a joint venture, JV Corp., which will be controlled by Corporation B, a foreign person. Corporation A contributes a U.S. business, the fair market value of which is $150,000,000, to JV Corp. Corporation B contributes $150,000,000 in cash to JV Corp. The value of the transaction is $150,000,000, which is equal to the value of the U.S. business being contributed. Assuming no other relevant facts, the filing fee is $75,000.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a stock purchase agreement with Person Z to acquire 100 percent of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. The value of the consideration has not been determined because it will be payable only once Corporation B achieves certain development and sales milestones, and it will be 10 percent of Corporation B's revenue over a future five-year period. The parties estimate in good faith that the fair market value of 100 percent of the shares of Corporation B is $30,000,000 based on a number of factors, including application of well-known accounting standards such as Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 157, a recent valuation conducted by a third-party auditor, and a proposal to acquire Corporation B made by another bidder for approximately $30,000,000 in cash. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $30,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a stock purchase agreement with Person Z to acquire 100 percent of the issued and outstanding shares of Corporation B, a U.S. business. The value of the consideration has not been determined because it will be payable only once Corporation B achieves certain development and sales milestones, and it will be 10 percent of Corporation B's revenue over a future five-year period. The parties estimate in good faith that the fair market value of 100 percent of the shares of Corporation B is $30,000,000 based on a number of factors, including application of well-known accounting standards such as Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement 157, a recent valuation conducted by a third-party auditor, and a proposal to acquire Corporation B made by another bidder for approximately $30,000,000 in cash. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $30,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
(6) Example 6. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire 100 percent of the assets of Corporation B, a foreign person, for $100,000,000. Corporation B has subsidiaries in several countries, including Corporation C, a U.S. business. The fair market value of Corporation C's assets is $1,000,000. Assuming no other relevant facts, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a $750 filing fee is required.
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire 100 percent of the assets of Corporation B, a foreign person, for $100,000,000. Corporation B has subsidiaries in several countries, including Corporation C, a U.S. business. The fair market value of Corporation C's assets is $1,000,000. Assuming no other relevant facts, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a $750 filing fee is required.
(7) Example 7. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire 50 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B, a U.S. business. Under the terms of a stock purchase agreement, the transaction will be effectuated in two phases. First, Corporation A will acquire 25 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B in exchange for $30,000,000 (phase 1). Two months later, Corporation A will acquire the other 25 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B in exchange for another $30,000,000 (phase 2). Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for both phases), and the filing fee is $75,000.
Example 7.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire 50 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B, a U.S. business. Under the terms of a stock purchase agreement, the transaction will be effectuated in two phases. First, Corporation A will acquire 25 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B in exchange for $30,000,000 (phase 1). Two months later, Corporation A will acquire the other 25 percent of the voting interest of Corporation B in exchange for another $30,000,000 (phase 2). Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for both phases), and the filing fee is $75,000.
(8) Example 8. Corporation A, a foreign person, pays $5,000,000 to acquire 100,000 shares and call options from Corporation B, a U.S. business. The call options can be exercised after 90 days, and if exercised, Corporation A will have the right to acquire another 60,000 shares of Corporation B in exchange for an additional $3,000,000. Because the options may be exercised imminently, conversion of the call options is in the control of Corporation A, and the consideration for the interest acquired as a result of conversion can be reasonably determined, the value of the transaction includes the consideration for the shares and the call options as well as the consideration paid to exercise the options. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $8,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
Example 8.
Corporation A, a foreign person, pays $5,000,000 to acquire 100,000 shares and call options from Corporation B, a U.S. business. The call options can be exercised after 90 days, and if exercised, Corporation A will have the right to acquire another 60,000 shares of Corporation B in exchange for an additional $3,000,000. Because the options may be exercised imminently, conversion of the call options is in the control of Corporation A, and the consideration for the interest acquired as a result of conversion can be reasonably determined, the value of the transaction includes the consideration for the shares and the call options as well as the consideration paid to exercise the options. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $8,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
(g) The determination of the value of the transaction for purposes of calculating the filing fee in no way limits the Committee's jurisdiction or its authority to review, investigate, mitigate, impose penalties regarding, or take any other action regarding any covered transaction.

§ 800.1104   Manner of payment.

Parties to a transaction must pay any filing fee by electronic payment. The filing fee must be paid in U.S. dollars. Instructions for paying filing fees are available on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.

§ 800.1105   Refunds.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Department of the Treasury shall not refund a filing fee in whole or in part.
(b) If the Committee determines that the transaction is not a covered transaction, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(c) In response to a petition by a party, if the Staff Chairperson determines, based on the information and representations contained in the formal written notice, as well as any other information provided by the parties, that a party or the parties to a transaction paid a filing fee in an amount greater than required at the time of filing, the Department of the Treasury shall refund the amount of overpayment to the party or parties who paid the filing fee.

§ 800.1106   Waiver.

If the Staff Chairperson determines that extraordinary circumstances relating to national security warrant, the Staff Chairperson may waive the filing fee in whole or in part and will notify the parties in writing. No waiver shall be implied, even where the Staff Chairperson does not reject a voluntary notice under § 800.1108 for failure to pay the required filing fee.

§ 800.1107   Refilings.

The parties to a transaction shall not be required to pay an additional filing fee in the event that the Staff Chairperson permits the parties to withdraw and refile a notice under § 800.509(c)(2), unless the Staff Chairperson determines that a material change to the transaction has occurred, or a material inaccuracy or omission was made by the parties in information provided to the Committee, that requires the Committee to consider new information, in which case the Staff Chairperson will inform the parties in writing.

§ 800.1108   Rejection of voluntary notice.

The Staff Chairperson may reject a voluntary notice under § 800.504(a)(3) upon a determination that the amount of the filing fee paid by the parties was insufficient under this subpart. Prior to rejecting a notice under § 800.504(a)(3), the Staff Chairperson shall inform the parties in writing of the insufficiency of payment and provide the parties three business days to pay the remainder of the filing fee. If the Staff Chairperson does not reject a voluntary notice under § 800.504(a)(3) upon a determination that the amount of the filing fee payment paid by the parties was insufficient under this section, the balance of the fee remains payable unless the Staff Chairperson notifies the parties in writing that the payment has been waived in whole or in part.

Appendix A to Part 800—Covered Investment Critical Infrastructure and Functions Related to Covered Investment Critical Infrastructure.

Column 1—Covered investment critical infrastructure
Column 2—Functions related to covered investment critical
infrastructure
(i) Any:
(i) Own or operate any:
(a) Internet protocol network that has access to every other internet protocol network solely via settlement-free peering; or
(a) Internet protocol network that has access to every other internet protocol network solely via settlement-free peering; or
(b) telecommunications service or information service, each as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 153), or fiber optic cable, in each case that directly serves any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(b) telecommunications service or information service, each as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 153), or fiber optic cable, in each case that directly serves any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(ii) Any internet exchange point that supports public peering.
(ii) Own or operate any internet exchange point that supports public peering.
(iii) Any submarine cable system requiring a license under section 1 of the Cable Landing License Act of 1921 (47 U.S.C. 34), which includes any associated submarine cable, submarine cable landing facilities, and any facility that performs network management, monitoring, maintenance, or other operational functions for such submarine cable system.
(iii) Own or operate any submarine cable system requiring a license under section 1 of the Cable Landing License Act of 1921 (47 U.S.C. 34), which includes any associated submarine cable, submarine cable landing facilities, and any facility that performs network management, monitoring, maintenance, or other operational functions for such submarine cable system.
(iv) Any submarine cable, landing facility, or facility that performs network management, monitoring, maintenance, or other operational function that is part of a submarine cable system described above in item (iii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(iv) Supply or service any submarine cable, landing facility, or facility that performs network management, monitoring, maintenance, or other operational function that is part of a submarine cable system described above in item (iii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(v) Any data center that is collocated at a submarine cable landing point, landing station, or termination station.
(v) Own or operate any data center that is collocated at a submarine cable landing point, landing station, or termination station.
(vi) Any satellite or satellite system providing services directly to the Department of Defense or any component thereof.
(vi) Own or operate any satellite or satellite system providing services directly to the Department of Defense or any component thereof.
(vii) Any industrial resource other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in section 4203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended (41 U.S.C. 104), that is manufactured or operated for a Major Defense Acquisition Program, as defined in section 7(b)(2)(A) of the Defense Technical Corrections Act of 1987, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2430), or a Major System, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2302d, as amended, and:
(vii) As applicable, manufacture any industrial resource other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in section 4203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended (41 U.S.C. 104), or operate any industrial resource that is a facility, in each case, for a Major Defense Acquisition Program, as defined in section 7(b)(2)(A) of the Defense Technical Corrections Act of 1987, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2430), or a Major System, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2302d, as amended, and:
(a) The U.S. business is a “single source,” “sole source,” or “strategic multisource,” to the extent the U.S. business has been notified of such status; or
(a) The U.S. business is a “single source,” “sole source,” or “strategic multisource,” to the extent the U.S. business has been notified of such status; or
(b) the industrial resource:
(b) the industrial resource:
(1) Requires 12 months or more to manufacture; or
(1) Requires 12 months or more to manufacture; or
(2) is a “long lead” item, to the extent the U.S. business has been notified that such industrial resource is a “long lead” item.
(2) is a “long lead” item, to the extent the U.S. business has been notified that such industrial resource is a “long lead” item.
(viii) Any industrial resource, other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in section 4203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended (41 U.S.C. 104), that is manufactured under a “DX” priority rated contract or order under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 700, as amended) in the preceding 24 months.
(viii) Manufacture any industrial resource, other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in section 4203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended (41 U.S.C. 104), under a “DX” priority rated contract or order under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System regulation (15 CFR part 700, as amended) within 24 months of the transaction in question.
(ix) Any facility in the United States that manufactures:
(ix) Manufacture any of the following in the United States:
(a) Specialty metal, as defined in section 842(a)(1)(i) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2533b);
(a) Specialty metal, as defined in section 842(a)(1)(i) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2533b);
(b) covered material, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2533c, as amended;
(b) covered material, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 2533c, as amended;
(c) chemical weapons antidote contained in automatic injectors, as described in 10 U.S.C. 2534, as amended; or
(c) chemical weapons antidote contained in automatic injectors, as described in 10 U.S.C. 2534, as amended; or
(d) carbon, alloy, and armor steel plate that is in Federal Supply Class 9515 or is described by specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials or the American Iron and Steel Institute.
(d) carbon, alloy, and armor steel plate that is in Federal Supply Class 9515 or is described by specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials or the American Iron and Steel Institute.
(x) Any industrial resource other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in 41 U.S.C. 104, as amended, that has been funded, in whole or in part, by any of the following sources in the last 60 months:
(x) As applicable, manufacture any industrial resource other than commercially available off-the-shelf items, as defined in 41 U.S.C. 104, as amended, or operate any industrial resource that is a facility, in each case, that has been funded, in whole or in part, by any of the following sources within 60 months of the transaction in question:
(a) Defense Production Act of 1950 Title III program, as amended (50 U.S.C 4501
et seq.
);
(a) Defense Production Act of 1950 Title III program, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4501
et seq.
);
(b) Industrial Base Fund under section 896(b)(1) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2508);
(b) Industrial Base Fund under section 896(b)(1) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2508);
(c) Rapid Innovation Fund under section 1073 of Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2359a);
(c) Rapid Innovation Fund under section 1073 of Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, as amended (10 U.S.C. 2359a);
(d) Manufacturing Technology Program under 10 U.S.C. 2521, as amended;
(d) Manufacturing Technology Program under 10 U.S.C. 2521, as amended;
(e) Defense Logistics Agency Warstopper Program, as described in DLA Instruction 1212, Industrial Capabilities Program—Manage the WarStopper Program; or
(e) Defense Logistics Agency Warstopper Program, as described in DLA Instruction 1212, Industrial Capabilities Program—Manage the WarStopper Program; or
(f) Defense Logistics Agency Surge and Sustainment contract, as described in Subpart 17.93 of the Defense Logistics Acquisition Directive.
(f) Defense Logistics Agency Surge and Sustainment contract, as described in Subpart 17.93 of the Defense Logistics Acquisition Directive.
(xi) Any system, including facilities, for the generation, transmission, distribution, or storage of electric energy comprising the bulk-power system, as defined in section 215(a)(1) of the Federal Power Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 824o(a)(1)).
(xi) Own or operate any system, including facilities, for the generation, transmission, distribution, or storage of electric energy comprising the bulk-power system, as defined in section 215(a)(1) of the Federal Power Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 824o(a)(1)).
(xii) Any electric storage resource, as defined in 18 CFR 35.28(b)(9), as amended, that is physically connected to the bulk-power system.
(xii) Own or operate any electric storage resource, as defined in 18 CFR 35.28(b)(9), as amended, that is physically connected to the bulk-power system.
(xiii) Any facility that provides electric power generation, transmission, distribution, or storage directly to or located on any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(xiii) Own or operate any facility that provides electric power generation, transmission, distribution, or storage directly to or located on any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(xiv) Any industrial control system utilized by:
(xiv) Manufacture or service any industrial control system utilized by:
(a) System comprising the bulk-power system as described above in item (xi) of column 1 of this appendix A; or
(a) System comprising the bulk-power system as described above in item (xi) of column 1 of this appendix A; or
(b) a facility directly serving any military installation as described above in item (xiii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(b) a facility directly serving any military installation as described above in item (xiii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(xv) Any:
(xv) Own or operate:
(a) Any individual refinery with the capacity to produce 300,000 or more barrels per day (or equivalent) of refined oil or gas products; or
(a) Any individual refinery with the capacity to produce 300,000 or more barrels per day (or equivalent) of refined oil or gas products; or
(b) collection of one or more refineries owned or operated by a single U.S. business with the capacity to produce, in the aggregate, 500,000 or more barrels per day (or equivalent) of refined oil or gas products.
(b) one or more refineries with the capacity to produce, in the aggregate, 500,000 or more barrels per day (or equivalent) of refined oil or gas products.
(xvi) Any crude oil storage facility with the capacity to hold 30 million barrels or more of crude oil.
(xvi) Own or operate any crude oil storage facility with the capacity to hold 30 million barrels or more of crude oil.
(xvii) Any:
(xvii) Own or operate any:
(a) Liquefied natural gas (LNG) import or export terminal requiring:
(a) Liquefied natural gas (LNG) import or export terminal requiring:
(1) Approval under section 3(e) of the Natural Gas Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 717b(e)), or
(1) Approval under section 3(e) of the Natural Gas Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 717b(e)), or
(2) a license under section 4 of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1503); or
(2) a license under section 4 of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1503); or
(b) natural gas underground storage facility or LNG peak-shaving facility requiring a certificate of public convenience and necessity under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 717f).
(b) natural gas underground storage facility or LNG peak-shaving facility requiring a certificate of public convenience and necessity under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 717f).
(xviii) Any financial market utility that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has designated as systemically important under section 804 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 5463).
(xviii) Own or operate any financial market utility that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has designated as systemically important under section 804 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 5463).
(xix) Any exchange registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78f), that facilitates trading in any national market system security, as defined in 17 CFR § 242.600, as amended, and which exchange during at least four of the preceding six calendar months had:
(xix) Own or operate any exchange registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78f), that facilitates trading in any national market system security, as defined in 17 CFR § 242.600, as amended, and which exchange during at least four of the preceding six calendar months had:
(a) With respect to all national market system securities that are not options, 10 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable transaction reporting plans; or
(a) With respect to all national market system securities that are not options, 10 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable transaction reporting plans; or
(b) with respect to all listed options, 15 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable national market system plans for reporting transactions in listed options.
(b) with respect to all listed options, 15 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable national market system plans for reporting transactions in listed options.
(xx) Any technology service provider in the Significant Service Provider Program of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council that provides core processing services.
(xx) Own or operate any technology service provider in the Significant Service Provider Program of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council that provides core processing services.
(xxi) Any rail line and associated connector line designated as part of the Department of Defense's Strategic Rail Corridor Network.
(xxi) Own or operate any rail line and associated connector line designated as part of the Department of Defense's Strategic Rail Corridor Network.
(xxii) Any interstate oil pipeline that:
(xxii) Own or operate any interstate oil pipeline that:
(a) Has the capacity to transport:
(a) Has the capacity to transport:
(1) 500,000 barrels per day or more of crude oil, or
(1) 500,000 barrels per day or more of crude oil, or
(2) 90 million gallons per day or more of refined petroleum product; or
(2) 90 million gallons per day or more of refined petroleum product; or
(b) directly serves the strategic petroleum reserve, as defined in section 152 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6232).
(b) directly serves the strategic petroleum reserve, as defined in section 152 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6232).
(xxiii) Any interstate natural gas pipeline with an outside diameter of 20 or more inches.
(xxiii) Own or operate any interstate natural gas pipeline with an outside diameter of 20 or more inches.
(xxiv) Any industrial control system utilized by:
(xxiv) Manufacture or service any industrial control system utilized by:
(a) An interstate oil pipeline as described above in item (xxii) of column 1 of this appendix A; or
(a) An interstate oil pipeline as described above in item (xxii) of column 1 of this appendix A; or
(b) an interstate natural gas pipeline as described above in item (xxiii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(b) an interstate natural gas pipeline as described above in item (xxiii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(xxv) Any airport identified in § 802.210(a)(1) through (3).
(xxv) Own or operate any airport identified in § 802.210(a)(1) through (3).
(xxvi) Any:
(xxvi) Own or operate any:
(a) Maritime port identified in § 802.210(a)(4) or (5); or
(a) Maritime port identified in § 802.210(a)(4) or (5); or
(b) any individual terminal at such maritime ports.
(b) any individual terminal at such maritime ports.
(xxvii) Any public water system, as defined in section 1401(4) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f(4)(A)), or treatment works, as defined in section 212(2)(A) of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1292(2)), which:
(xxvii) Own or operate any public water system, as defined in section 1401(4) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f(4)(A)), or treatment works, as defined in section 212(2)(A) of the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1292(2)), which:
(a) Regularly serves 10,000 individuals or more, or
(a) Regularly serves 10,000 individuals or more, or
(b) directly serves any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(b) directly serves any military installation identified in § 802.227.
(xxviii) Any industrial control system utilized by a public water system or treatment works as described above in item (xxvii) of column 1 of this appendix A.
(xxviii) Manufacture or service any industrial control system utilized by a public water system or treatment works as described above in item (xxvii) of column 1 of this appendix A.

PART 801—PILOT PROGRAM TO REVIEW CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING FOREIGN PERSONS AND CRITICAL TECHNOLOGIES

[Authority:50 U.S.C. 4565; Pub. L. 115-232.]
Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4565; Pub. L. 115-232.
[Source:83 FR 51327, Oct. 11, 2018, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
83 FR 51327, Oct. 11, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General


§ 801.101   Scope.

The regulations in this part implement a pilot program in accordance with section 1727(c) of the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018. Pursuant to section 1727(c), the pilot program implements authorities provided in certain provisions of, or amendments made by, the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 that did not take effect on the date of its enactment. This pilot program expands the scope of transactions reviewable by CFIUS to include certain investments by foreign persons in certain U.S. businesses that produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop one or more critical technologies. The pilot program also requires that parties to a pilot program covered transaction notify CFIUS of the transaction by either submitting a declaration or filing a written notice. The regulations in this part supplement the existing regulations implementing section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, under part 800 to Title 31 CFR Chapter VIII, which remain in effect. The pilot program implemented through these regulations will end no later than the date on which the full regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 become effective, and in no event later than the date that is 570 days after the enactment of the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018. These regulations will be amended, replaced, or removed no later than the date on which the pilot program ends.

§ 801.102   Effect on other law.

Unless otherwise indicated, nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, or review provided by or established under any other provision of federal law, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706), or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States.

§ 801.103   Applicability rule.

The regulations in this part apply to any pilot program covered transaction for which the following occurred on or after November 10, 2018, and prior to February 13, 2020:
(a) The completion date, unless any of the following occurred before October 11, 2018:
(1) The parties to the transaction executed a binding written agreement or other document establishing the material terms of the transaction;
(2) A party made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction; or
(3) A shareholder solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction;
(b) The parties to the transaction executed a binding written agreement or other document establishing the material terms of the transaction;
(c) A party made a public offer to shareholders to buy shares of the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction; or
(d) A shareholder solicited proxies in connection with an election of the board of directors of the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction or has requested the conversion of convertible voting securities thereof.
[[85 FR 3155, Jan. 17, 2020]]

Subpart B—Definitions


§ 801.201   General.

Unless otherwise indicated, terms used in the regulations in this part that are defined in §§ 800.201 through 800.228 of this chapter have the meanings set forth therein.

§ 801.202   Completion date.

The term completion date means, with respect to a transaction, the date upon which an ownership interest, including a contingent equity interest, is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to a person, or a change in rights occurs.
completion date
means, with respect to a transaction, the date upon which an ownership interest, including a contingent equity interest, is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to a person, or a change in rights occurs.

§ 801.203   Contingent equity interest.

The term contingent equity interest means a financial instrument that currently does not entitle its owner or holder to voting rights but is convertible into an equity interest with voting rights.
contingent equity interest
means a financial instrument that currently does not entitle its owner or holder to voting rights but is convertible into an equity interest with voting rights.

§ 801.204   Critical technologies.

The term critical technologies means the following:
critical technologies
means the following:
(a) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States Munitions List set forth in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120-130).
(b) Items included on the Commerce Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR parts 730-774) and controlled:
(1) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating to national security, chemical and biological weapons proliferation, nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or
(2) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious listening.
(c) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810 (relating to assistance to foreign atomic energy activities).
(d) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by 10 CFR part 110 (relating to export and import of nuclear equipment and material).
(e) Select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121, or 42 CFR part 73.
(f) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018.

§ 801.205   FIRRMA.

The term FIRRMA means the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018, Subtitle A of Title XVII of Public Law 115-232 (Aug. 13, 2018).
FIRRMA
means the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018, Subtitle A of Title XVII of Public Law 115-232 (Aug. 13, 2018).

§ 801.206   Investment.

The term investment means the acquisition of equity interest, including contingent equity interest.
investment
means the acquisition of equity interest, including contingent equity interest.

§ 801.207   Investment fund.

The term investment fund means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.), or would be an “investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.
investment fund
means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), or would be an “investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.

§ 801.208   Material nonpublic technical information.

(a) The term material nonpublic technical information means information that is not available in the public domain, and is necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture critical technologies, including processes, techniques, or methods.
material nonpublic technical information
means information that is not available in the public domain, and is necessary to design, fabricate, develop, test, produce, or manufacture critical technologies, including processes, techniques, or methods.
(b) The term material nonpublic technical information does not include financial information regarding the performance of an entity.
material nonpublic technical information
does not include financial information regarding the performance of an entity.

§ 801.209   Pilot program covered investment.

The term pilot program covered investment means an investment, direct or indirect, by a foreign person in an unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business that could not result in control by a foreign person of a pilot program U.S. business and that affords the foreign person:
pilot program covered investment
means an investment, direct or indirect, by a foreign person in an unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business that could not result in control by a foreign person of a pilot program U.S. business and that affords the foreign person:
(a) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the pilot program U.S. business;
(b) Membership or observer rights on the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the pilot program U.S. business or the right to nominate an individual to a position on the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the pilot program U.S. business; or
(c) Any involvement, other than through voting of shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the pilot program U.S. business regarding the use, development, acquisition, or release of critical technology.

§ 801.210   Pilot program covered transaction.

The term pilot program covered transaction means:
pilot program covered transaction
means:
(a) Any pilot program covered investment; or
(b) Any transaction by or with any foreign person that could result in foreign control of any pilot program U.S. business, including such a transaction carried out through a joint venture.

§ 801.211   Pilot program effective date.

The term pilot program effective date means November 10, 2018.
pilot program effective date
means November 10, 2018.

§ 801.212   Pilot program industry.

The term pilot program industry means any industry identified in Annex A to part 801 by reference to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).
pilot program industry
means any industry identified in Annex A to part 801 by reference to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).

§ 801.213   Pilot program U.S. business.

The term pilot program U.S. business means any U.S. business that produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops a critical technology that is:
pilot program U.S. business
means any U.S. business that produces, designs, tests, manufactures, fabricates, or develops a critical technology that is:
(a) Utilized in connection with the U.S. business's activity in one or more pilot program industries; or
(b) Designed by the U.S. business specifically for use in one or more pilot program industries.

§ 801.214   Unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business.

The term unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business means, with respect to a foreign person, a pilot program U.S. business in which that foreign person does not directly hold more than fifty percent of the outstanding voting interest or have the right to appoint more than half of the members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body.
unaffiliated pilot program U.S. business
means, with respect to a foreign person, a pilot program U.S. business in which that foreign person does not directly hold more than fifty percent of the outstanding voting interest or have the right to appoint more than half of the members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body.

Subpart C—Pilot Program Covered Transactions


§ 801.301   Control.

For the sole purpose of determining whether a transaction could result in control of a pilot program U.S. business by a foreign person, the provisions set forth in subpart C of this part (excluding § 800.302(b) of this chapter and the examples thereunder) regarding covered transactions shall apply to any pilot program covered transaction declared to the Committee pursuant to § 801.401 or notified to the Committee pursuant to § 801.501.

§ 801.302   Transactions that are pilot program covered transactions.

Transactions that are pilot program covered transactions include, without limitation:
(a) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 801.209, irrespective of the percentage of voting interest acquired.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Corporation B is a U.S. business that manufactures a critical technology as part of its business in a pilot program industry. Corporation B is therefore a pilot program U.S. business. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. The proposed transaction is a pilot program covered investment and therefore a pilot program covered transaction.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, a pilot program U.S. business as described above. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, Corporation A has approval rights with respect to Corporation B's licensing of a critical technology to third parties. Corporation A is therefore involved in substantive decisionmaking with respect to Corporation B and the proposed transaction is a pilot program covered investment and a pilot program covered transaction.
(b) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 801.209, irrespective of the fact that the Committee concluded all action under section 721 for a previous pilot program covered investment by the same foreign person in the same pilot program U.S. business, where such transaction involves the acquisition of access or rights described by § 801.209 in addition to those notified to the Committee in the transaction for which the Committee previously concluded action.
Example.
The Committee concludes all action under section 721 with respect to a pilot program covered investment by Corporation A, a foreign person, in which Corporation A acquires a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with board observer rights in Corporation B, a pilot program U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, resulting in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. Pursuant to the terms of the additional investment, Corporation A will be provided access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B to which Corporation A did not previously have access. The proposed transaction is a pilot program covered investment and therefore a pilot program covered transaction because the transaction involves both an acquisition of an equity interest in a pilot program U.S. business and a new right to access material nonpublic technical information.
(c) A transaction that meets the requirements of § 801.209, irrespective of the fact that the critical technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by the pilot program U.S. business became controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after the pilot program effective date, unless any of the criteria set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of § 801.103 is satisfied with respect to the transaction prior to the critical technology becoming controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018.
Example.
Corporation A, a foreign person, has executed a written agreement establishing the material terms of a proposed non-controlling investment in Corporation B, a pilot program U.S. business. The proposed investment will afford Corporation A access to material nonpublic technical information in the possession of Corporation B. The only controlled technology produced, designed, tested, manufactured, fabricated, or developed by Corporation B became controlled pursuant to section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 after the pilot program effective date but prior to the date upon which the written agreement establishing the material terms of the investment was executed. The proposed transaction is a pilot program covered investment and therefore a pilot program covered transaction.
(d) A transaction by or with any foreign person that could result in foreign control of any pilot program U.S. business.
Example.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires a 40 percent interest and the ability to determine important matters with respect to Corporation B, a U.S. pilot program business. The proposed transaction is a pilot program covered transaction.
[[83 FR 51327, Oct. 11, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 3156, Jan. 17, 2020]]

§ 801.303   Transactions that are not pilot program covered transactions.

Transactions that are not pilot program covered transactions include, without limitation:
(a) An investment by a foreign person in a U.S. business that manufactures a technology that it utilizes in connection with its activity in one or more pilot program industries, but does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop one or more critical technologies.
Example.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to acquire a four percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B, a U.S. business that operates in a pilot program industry. Pursuant to the terms of the investment, a designee of Corporation A will have the right to observe the meetings of the board of directors of Corporation B. Corporation B does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop any critical technology. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a pilot program covered transaction.
(b) An investment by a foreign person in a pilot program U.S. business that does not afford the foreign person any of the rights specified in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of § 801.209 or any control rights.
Example.
The Committee concluded all action under section 721 with respect to a pilot program covered transaction in which Corporation A, a foreign person, acquired a four percent, non-controlling equity interest with board observer rights in Corporation B, a pilot program U.S. business. One year later, Corporation A proposes to acquire an additional five percent equity interest in Corporation B, which would result in Corporation A holding a nine percent, non-controlling equity interest in Corporation B. The proposed investment does not afford Corporation A any additional rights with respect to Corporation B, including the rights specified in § 801.209. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a pilot program covered transaction.
(c) A transaction that results or could result in control by a foreign person of a U.S. business that is not a pilot program U.S. business.
Example.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation B, which is a U.S. business that operates in a pilot program industry but does not produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop any critical technology. As the sole owner, Corporation A will have the right to elect directors and appoint other primary officers of Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is not a pilot program covered transaction. It is, however, a covered transaction (see § 800.301 of this chapter).

§ 801.304   Treatment of certain investment fund investments.

(a) An indirect investment by a foreign person in a pilot program U.S. business through an investment fund that affords the foreign person (or a designee of the foreign person) membership as a limited partner or equivalent on an advisory board or a committee of the fund shall not be considered a pilot program covered transaction with respect to the foreign person if:
(1) The fund is managed exclusively by a general partner, a managing member, or an equivalent;
(2) The foreign person is not the general partner, managing member, or equivalent;
(3) The advisory board or committee does not have the ability to approve, disapprove, or otherwise control:
(i) Investment decisions of the investment fund; or
(ii) Decisions made by the general partner, managing member, or equivalent related to entities in which the investment fund is invested;
(4) The foreign person does not otherwise have the ability to control the investment fund, including the authority:
(i) To approve, disapprove, or otherwise control investment decisions of the investment fund;
(ii) To approve, disapprove, or otherwise control decisions made by the general partner, managing member, or equivalent related to entities in which the investment fund is invested; or
(iii) To unilaterally dismiss, prevent the dismissal of, select, or determine the compensation of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent;
(5) The foreign person does not have access to material nonpublic technical information as a result of its participation on the advisory board or committee; and
(6) The investment otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (4)(D) of subsection (a) of section 721 made effective by part 801.
(b) For the purposes of paragraphs (a)(3) and (4), and except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a waiver of a potential conflict of interest, a waiver of an allocation limitation, or a similar activity, applicable to a transaction pursuant to the terms of an agreement governing an investment fund shall not be considered to constitute control of investment decisions of the investment fund or decisions relating to entities in which the investment fund is invested.
(c) In extraordinary circumstances, the Committee may consider the waiver of a potential conflict of interest, the waiver of an allocation limitation, or a similar activity, applicable to a transaction pursuant to the terms of an agreement governing an investment fund, to constitute control of investment decisions of the investment fund or decisions relating to entities in which the investment fund is invested.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, makes an investment in an investment fund as a limited partner. The investment confers membership on an advisory board of the investment fund. The investment fund holds 100 percent of the ownership interests in a pilot program U.S. business. Corporation A will have the right to approve decisions made by the general partner with respect to the use and development of the critical technologies produced by the pilot program U.S. business. This transaction is a pilot program covered transaction.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, makes an investment in an investment fund as a limited partner. The investment confers membership on an advisory board of the investment fund. The investment fund holds 100 percent of the ownership interests in a pilot program U.S. business. Corporation A is not the general partner that wholly manages the investment fund. Corporation A lacks any ability to control the investment fund or its decisions. As a member of the advisory board, Corporation A has the right to vote on the compensation of the general partner and the right to vote on the dismissal of the general partner for cause, but does not have the power to determine either of these matters unilaterally. Assuming no other relevant facts, this transaction is not a pilot program covered transaction with respect to Corporation A.

§ 801.305   Exception for air carriers.

No investment involving an air carrier, as defined in section 40102(a)(2) of title 49, United States Code, that holds a certificate issued under section 41102 of that title shall be a pilot program covered transaction.

§ 801.306   Timing rule for contingent equity interests.

The provisions set forth in § 800.304 of this chapter regarding convertible voting instruments shall apply to contingent equity interests.

Subpart D—Mandatory Declarations Under the Pilot Program


§ 801.401   Mandatory declarations under the pilot program.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the parties to a pilot program covered transaction shall submit to the Committee a declaration with information regarding the transaction in accordance with § 801.402.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, parties to a pilot program covered transaction may elect to submit a written notice pursuant to subpart E of this part regarding the transaction instead of a declaration. Parties to a pilot program covered transaction that have filed with the Committee a written notice regarding a transaction pursuant to § 801.501 may not submit to the Committee a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction without the approval of the Staff Chairperson.
(c) Parties shall submit to the Committee the declaration required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or a written notice pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, no later than:
(1) November 10, 2018, or promptly thereafter, if the completion date of the transaction is between November 10, 2018 and December 25, 2018; or
(2) 45 days before the completion date of the transaction, if the completion date of the transaction is after December 25, 2018.
(d) Section 800.204(e) of this chapter shall not apply with respect to any pilot program covered transaction for which the Committee completes all action under section 721 pursuant to § 801.407(a)(4).

§ 801.402   Procedures for declarations under the pilot program.

(a) A party or parties shall submit a declaration of a pilot program covered transaction pursuant to § 801.401 by submitting electronically the information set out in § 801.403, including the certifications required thereunder, to the Staff Chairperson in accordance with the submission instructions on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
(b) No communications other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute the submission of a declaration for purposes of section 721.
(c) Information and other documentary material submitted to the Committee pursuant to this section shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c).
(d) Persons filing a declaration shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts, or circumstances addressed in the declaration, and any material change in information required to be provided to the Committee under § 801.406(a)(3). Such changes shall become part of the declaration filed by such persons under § 801.401, and the certification required under § 801.405(c) shall apply to such changes.

§ 801.403   Contents of declarations under the pilot program.

(a) The party or parties submitting a declaration of a pilot program covered transaction pursuant to § 801.401 shall provide the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to all parties and to the transaction. (See also paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.)
(b) If fewer than all the parties to a transaction submit a declaration, the Committee may, at its discretion, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice of the transaction under § 801.501, if the Staff Chairperson determines that the information provided by the submitting party or parties in the declaration is insufficient for the Committee to assess the transaction.
(c) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, a declaration submitted pursuant to § 801.401 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The name of the foreign person(s) and pilot program U.S. business(es) that are parties to, or, in applicable cases, the subject of the transaction, as well as the name, telephone number, and email address of the primary point of contact for each party.
(2) The following information regarding the transaction in question, including:
(i) A brief description of the nature of the transaction and its structure (e.g., share purchase, merger, asset purchase);
(ii) The percentage of voting interest acquired;
(iii) The percentage of economic interest acquired;
(iv) Whether the pilot program U.S. business has multiple classes of ownership;
(v) The total transaction value in U.S. dollars;
(vi) The expected closing date; and
(vii) All sources of financing for the transaction.
(3) The following:
(i) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation; and
(ii) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction could result in control of a pilot program U.S. business by a foreign person or that the transaction is a foreign government-controlled transaction and, in each case, a description of the basis for the stipulation.
(4) A statement as to whether the foreign person will acquire any of the following in the pilot program U.S. business:
(i) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the pilot program U.S. business, and if so, a brief explanation of the type of access and type of information;
(ii) Membership, observer rights, or nomination rights as set forth in § 801.209(b), and if so, a statement as to the composition of the board or other body both before and after the completion date of the transaction;
(iii) Any involvement, other than through voting shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the pilot program U.S. business regarding the use, development, acquisition, or release of critical technologies and if so, a statement as to the involvement in such substantive decisionmaking; or
(iv) Any rights that could result in the foreign person acquiring control of the pilot program U.S. business and, if so, a brief explanation of these rights.
(5) The following information regarding the pilot program U.S. business:
(i) Website address;
(ii) Principal place of business;
(iii) Place of incorporation or organization; and
(iv) A list of the addresses or geographic coordinates (to at least the fourth decimal) of all locations of the pilot program U.S. business, including the pilot program U.S. business's headquarters, facilities, and operating locations.
(6) With respect to the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction and any entity of which that pilot program U.S. business is a parent, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports, and the product or service categories of each, including the applicable six-digit NAICS codes.
(7) A statement as to which critical technology or critical technologies the pilot program U.S. business and its subsidiaries produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop, and the relevant six-digit NAICS code or codes, as applicable under §§ 801.212 and 801.213, for each critical technology listed. This statement shall include a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of the items and a list of any relevant Export Control Classification Numbers under the EAR and United States Munitions List categories under the ITAR, and, if applicable, identify whether any are specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810, nuclear facilities, equipment, and materials covered by 10 CFR part 110 or select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121 or 42 CFR part 73.
(8) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business has any contracts (including any subcontracts, if known) that are currently in effect or were in effect within the past three years with any U.S. Government agency or component, or in the past 10 years if the contract included access to personally identifiable information of U.S. Government personnel.
(9) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business has any contracts (including any subcontracts, if known) that are currently in effect or were in effect within the past five years involving information, technology, or data that is classified under Executive Order 12958, as amended.
(10) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business has received any grant or other funding from the Department of Defense or the Department of Energy, or participated in or collaborated on any defense or energy program or product involving one or more critical technologies or pilot program industries within the past five years.
(11) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business participated in a Defense Production Act Title III Program (50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.) within the past seven years.
et seq.
) within the past seven years.
(12) A statement as to whether the pilot program U.S. business has received or placed priority rated contracts or orders under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) regulation (15 CFR part 700), and the level(s) of priority of such contracts or orders (DX or DO) within the past three years.
(13) The name of the ultimate parent of the foreign person.
(14) A complete organizational chart, including, without limitation, information that identifies the name, principal place of business and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities), and nationality (for individuals) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent.
(15) Information regarding all foreign government ownership in the foreign person's ownership structure, including nationality and percentage of ownership, as well as any rights that a foreign government holds, directly or indirectly, with respect to the foreign person.
(16) With respect to the foreign person that is party to the transaction and any of its parents, as applicable, a brief summary of their respective business activities, as, for example, set forth in annual reports.
(17) A statement as to whether any party to the transaction has been party to another transaction previously notified or submitted to the Committee, and the case number assigned by the Committee regarding such transaction(s).
(18) A statement (including relevant jurisdiction and criminal case law number or legal citation) as to whether the pilot program U.S. business, the foreign person, or any parent or subsidiary of the foreign person has been convicted in the last ten years of a crime in any jurisdiction.
(d) Each party submitting a declaration shall provide a certification of the information contained in the declaration consistent with § 800.202 of this chapter. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
(e) A party that offers a stipulation pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction, a transaction that could result in control of a pilot program U.S. business by a foreign person, or a foreign government-controlled transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any pilot program covered transaction.

§ 801.404   Beginning of thirty-day period.

(a) Upon receipt of a declaration submitted pursuant to § 801.401, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect the declaration and shall promptly notify in writing all parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration that:
(1) The Staff Chairperson has accepted the declaration and circulated the declaration to the Committee, and the date on which the assessment described in paragraph (b) of this section begins; or
(2) The Staff Chairperson has determined not to accept the declaration and circulate the declaration to the Committee because the declaration is incomplete, and provide an explanation of the material respects in which the declaration is incomplete.
(b) A thirty-day period for assessment of a pilot program covered transaction that is the subject of a declaration shall commence on the date on which the declaration is received by the Committee from the Staff Chairperson. Such period shall end no later than the thirtieth day after it has commenced, or if the thirtieth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the thirtieth day.

§ 801.405   General.

(a) In assessing a pilot program covered transaction submitted pursuant to § 801.401, the Committee should consider the factors specified in section 721(f) and, as appropriate, require parties to provide to the Committee the information necessary to consider such factors. The Committee's assessment shall examine, as appropriate, whether:
(1) The transaction constitutes a pilot program covered transaction and whether it could result in foreign government control over a pilot program U.S. business;
(2) There is credible evidence to support a belief that any foreign person exercising control of the pilot program U.S. business or exercising rights related to a pilot program covered investment might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States; and
(3) Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, provide adequate and appropriate authority to protect the national security of the United States with respect to the risk arising from the pilot program covered transaction.
(b) During the thirty-day assessment period, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a pilot program covered transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction.
(c) If the Committee notifies the parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration pursuant to § 801.401 that the Committee intends to complete all action under section 721 with respect to that transaction, each party that has submitted additional information subsequent to the original declaration shall file a certification as described in § 800.202 of this chapter. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/international/the-committee-on-foreign-investment-in-the-united-states-cfius.
(d) If a party fails to provide the certification required under paragraph (c) of this section, the Committee may, at its discretion, take any of the actions under § 801.407(a).

§ 801.406   Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.

(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any declaration that does not comply with § 801.403 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any declaration at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the declaration has been submitted and before the Committee has taken one of the actions specified in § 801.407(a):
(i) There is a material change in the pilot program covered transaction as to which a declaration has been submitted; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the declaration by the party (or parties); or
(3) Reject any declaration at any time after the declaration has been submitted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party (or parties) that submitted the declaration does not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within two business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the party (or parties) so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing.
(b) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the parties that submitted a declaration when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a declaration is not a pilot program covered transaction.
(c) Parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration pursuant to § 801.401(a) may request in writing, at any time prior to the Committee taking action under § 801.407(a), that such declaration be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made and state whether the transaction that is the subject of the declaration is being fully and permanently abandoned. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(d) The Committee may not request or recommend that a declaration be withdrawn and refiled, except to permit parties to a pilot program covered transaction to correct material errors or omissions in the declaration submitted with respect to that pilot program covered transaction.
(e) A party (or parties) may not submit more than one declaration for the same or a substantially similar transaction without approval from the Staff Chairperson.

§ 801.407   Committee actions.

(a) Upon receiving a declaration submitted pursuant to § 801.401 with respect to a pilot program covered transaction, the Committee may, at the discretion of the Committee:
(1) Request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice pursuant to subpart E;
(2) Inform the parties to the transaction that the Committee is not able to complete action under section 721 with respect to the transaction on the basis of the declaration and that the parties may file a written notice under part 800 to seek written notification from the Committee that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction;
(3) Initiate a unilateral review of the transaction under § 801.504; or
(4) Notify the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction.
(b) The Committee shall take action under paragraph (a) within the time period set forth in § 801.404(b).

§ 801.408   Confidentiality.

The provisions of § 800.702 of this chapter shall apply to information submitted to the Committee through a declaration.

§ 801.409   Penalties.

(a) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of § 801.401 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed the value of the pilot program covered transaction.
(b) The provisions of § 800.801(a), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) shall apply to a declaration submitted to the Committee pursuant to § 801.401.

Subpart E—Notice of Pilot Program Covered Transaction


§ 801.501   Notice of pilot program covered transactions.

Parties to a pilot program covered transaction may notify the Committee of the transaction by filing with the Committee a written notice pursuant to § 800.401(a) of this chapter and this subpart.

§ 801.502   Applicability of part 800.

(a) The provisions set forth in Subpart D—Notice; Subpart E—Committee Procedures: Review and Investigation; Subpart F—Finality of Action; Subpart G—Provision and Handling of Information; and Subpart H—Penalties of Part 800 regarding covered transactions shall apply to any pilot program covered transaction notified to the Committee.
(b) Section 800.204(e) shall not apply with respect to any pilot program covered investment for which the Committee completes all action under section 721 pursuant to § 800.504 or § 800.506(d) of this chapter.

§ 801.503   Additional contents of written notice.

(a) In addition to the information required pursuant to § 800.402(c), a written notice of a pilot program covered transaction filed pursuant to § 800.401(a) of this chapter shall include the following information:
(1) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation;
(2) A statement as to whether the foreign person will acquire any of the following in the pilot program U.S. business:
(i) Access to any material nonpublic technical information in the possession of the pilot program U.S. business, and if so, a brief explanation of the type of access and type of information;
(ii) Membership, observer rights, or nomination rights as set forth in § 801.209(b), and if so, a statement as to the composition of the board or other body both before and after the transaction; or
(iii) Any involvement, other than through voting shares, in substantive decisionmaking of the United States business regarding the use, development, acquisition, or release of critical technologies and if so, a statement as to the involvement in such substantive decisionmaking; and
(3) With respect to the pilot program U.S. business that is the subject of the transaction, a statement as to which critical technology or critical technologies the pilot program U.S. business and its subsidiaries produce, design, test, manufacture, fabricate, or develop, and the relevant six-digit NAICS code, as applicable under §§ 801.212 and 801.213, for each critical technology listed. This statement shall include a description (which may group similar items into general product categories) of the items and a list of any relevant Export Control Classification Numbers under the EAR and United States Munitions List categories under the ITAR, and, if applicable, identify whether any are specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and components, materials, software, and technology covered by 10 CFR part 810, nuclear facilities, equipment, and materials covered by 10 CFR part 110 or select agents and toxins covered by 7 CFR part 331, 9 CFR part 121 or 42 CFR part 73.
(b) If the party (or parties) stipulate pursuant to § 800.402(n) of this chapter that the pilot program covered transaction that is the subject of the written notice could result in a covered transaction under part 800, the party (or parties) are not required to include in the written notice the information required by this section.
(c) A party that offers a stipulation acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction, a transaction that could result in control of a pilot program U.S. business by a foreign person, or a foreign government-controlled transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any pilot program covered transaction.

§ 801.504   Agency notice of pilot program covered transactions.

Any member of the Committee, or his designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding a pilot program covered transaction for which no declaration has been submitted pursuant to § 801.401 and no written notice has been filed under § 801.501(a) if that member has reason to believe that the transaction is a pilot program covered transaction and may raise national security considerations. Notices filed under this paragraph are deemed accepted upon their receipt by the Staff Chairperson.

Subpart F—Implementation of Certain Authority Provided In FIRRMA


§ 801.601   Implementation of certain authority regarding covered transactions.

Paragraphs (4)(A)(ii) (solely with respect to clauses (iii)(II) and (iv)(II) (solely with respect to an investment described in section 721(a)(4)(B)(iii)(II)) of subparagraph (B)), (4)(B)(iii)(II), (4)(B)(iv)(II) (solely with respect to an investment described in section 721(a)(4)(B)(iii)(II)), (4)(D)(i)(I), 4(D)(i)(II), (4)(D)(i)(III)(bb), (4)(D)(ii)(I)(bb), (4)(D)(ii)(II), (4)(D)(iii)(I), (4)(D)(iv), and (4)(D)(v) of subsection (a) of section 721 shall take effect on the pilot program effective date solely with respect to any pilot program covered transaction. Paragraph (4)(A)(ii) (solely with respect to clauses (iv)(I) and (v) of subparagraph (B)) of subsection (a) of section 721 shall take effect on the pilot program effective date.

§ 801.602   Implementation of certain authority regarding mandatory declarations.

Paragraphs (1)(C)(v)(I), (II), (III), (IV)(aa), (IV)(cc), (IV)(dd), (IV)(ee), (IV)(ff), and (IV)(gg) of subsection (b) of section 721 shall take effect on the pilot program effective date solely with respect to any pilot program covered transaction.

Annex A to Part 801—Industries

Aircraft Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336411
Aircraft Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336412
Alumina Refining and Primary Aluminum Production
NAICS Code: 331313
Ball and Roller Bearing Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 332991
Computer Storage Device Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334112
Electronic Computer Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334111
Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336414
Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Propulsion Unit and Propulsion Unit Parts Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336415
Military Armored Vehicle, Tank, and Tank Component Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336992
Nuclear Electric Power Generation
NAICS Code: 221113
Optical Instrument and Lens Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 333314
Other Basic Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 325180
Other Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Parts and Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 336419
Petrochemical Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 325110
Powder Metallurgy Part Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 332117
Power, Distribution, and Specialty Transformer Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 335311
Primary Battery Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 335912
Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334220
Research and Development in Nanotechnology
NAICS Code: 541713
Research and Development in Biotechnology (except Nanobiotechnology)
NAICS Code: 541714
Secondary Smelting and Alloying of Aluminum
NAICS Code: 331314
Search, Detection, Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and Nautical System and Instrument Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334511
Semiconductor and Related Device Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334413
Semiconductor Machinery Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 333242
Storage Battery Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 335911
Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 334210
Turbine and Turbine Generator Set Units Manufacturing
NAICS Code: 333611

PART 802—REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BY FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVING REAL ESTATE IN THE UNITED STATES

[Authority:50 U.S.C. 4565; E.O. 11858, as amended, 73 FR 4677.]
Authority:
50 U.S.C. 4565; E.O. 11858, as amended, 73 FR 4677.
[Source:85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General


§ 802.101   Scope.

(a) Section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565) authorizes the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States to review transactions involving real estate that meet specified criteria, which are referred to in this part as “covered real estate transactions” and defined at § 802.212, and to mitigate any risk to the national security of the United States that arises as a result of such transactions. Section 721 also authorizes the President to suspend or prohibit any covered real estate transaction when, in the President's judgment, there is credible evidence that leads the President to believe that the foreign person engaging in a covered real estate transaction might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States, and when provisions of law other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) do not, in the judgment of the President, provide adequate and appropriate authority for the President to protect the national security of the United States in the matter before the President.
et seq.
) do not, in the judgment of the President, provide adequate and appropriate authority for the President to protect the national security of the United States in the matter before the President.
(b) This part implements regulations pertaining to covered real estate transactions. Regulations pertaining to “covered transactions” are addressed in part 800 of this chapter.

§ 802.102   Risk-based analysis.

Any determination of the Committee with respect to a covered real estate transaction, to suspend, refer to the President, or to negotiate, enter into or impose, or enforce any agreement or condition under section 721 shall be based on a risk-based analysis, conducted by the Committee, of the effects on the national security of the United States of the covered real estate transaction. Any such risk-based analysis shall include credible evidence demonstrating the risk and an assessment of the threat, vulnerabilities, and consequences to national security related to the transaction. For purposes of this part, any such analysis of risk shall include and be informed by consideration of the following elements:
(a) The threat, which is a function of the intent and capability of a foreign person to take action to impair the national security of the United States;
threat,
which is a function of the intent and capability of a foreign person to take action to impair the national security of the United States;
(b) The vulnerabilities, which are the extent to which the nature of the covered real estate presents susceptibility to impairment of national security; and
vulnerabilities,
which are the extent to which the nature of the covered real estate presents susceptibility to impairment of national security; and
(c) The consequences to national security, which are the potential effects on national security that could reasonably result from the exploitation of the vulnerabilities by the threat actor.
consequences to national security,
which are the potential effects on national security that could reasonably result from the exploitation of the vulnerabilities by the threat actor.

§ 802.103   Effect on other law.

Nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, or review provided by or established under any other provision of federal law, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States.

§ 802.104   Applicability rule.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and otherwise in this part, the regulations in this part apply from February 13, 2020.
(b) The regulations in this part adopted by the final rule published in the Federal Register on January 17, 2020 (85 FR 3158), shall apply to any transaction for which:
Federal Register
on January 17, 2020 (85 FR 3158), shall apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date was on or after February 13, 2020, and before September 22, 2023; or
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction on or after February 13, 2020, and before September 22, 2023.
(c) The regulations in this part as amended by the final rule published in the Federal Register on August 23, 2023 (88 FR 57348), shall apply to any transaction for which:
Federal Register
on August 23, 2023 (88 FR 57348), shall apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date was on or after September 22, 2023, and before December 9, 2024; or
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction on or after September 22, 2023, and before December 9, 2024.
(d) The regulations in this part as amended by the final rule published in the Federal Register on November 7, 2024 (89 FR 88133), shall apply to any transaction for which:
Federal Register
on November 7, 2024 (89 FR 88133), shall apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date was on or after December 9, 2024; or
(2) The parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction on or after December 9, 2024.
[[89 FR 88133, Nov. 7, 2024; 89 FR 90592, Nov. 18, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 93185, Nov. 26, 2024]]
Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 93185, Nov. 26, 2024, § 802.104 was amended by adding paragraph (c). However, the amendment could not be incorporated because paragraph (c) already exists.

§ 802.105   Rules of construction and interpretation.

(a) The examples included in this part are provided for informational purposes and should not be construed to alter the meaning of the text of the regulations in this part.
(b) As used in this part, the term “including” means “including but not limited to.”

Subpart B—Definitions


§ 802.201   Business day.

The term business day means Monday through Friday, except the legal public holidays specified in 5 U.S.C. 6103, any day declared to be a holiday by federal statute or executive order, or any day with respect to which the U.S. Office of Personnel Management has announced that Federal agencies in the Washington, DC, area are closed. For purposes of calculating any deadline imposed by this part triggered by the submission of a party to a transaction under § 802.501(i), any submissions received after 5 p.m. Eastern Time are deemed to be submitted on the next business day.
business day
means Monday through Friday, except the legal public holidays specified in 5 U.S.C. 6103, any day declared to be a holiday by federal statute or executive order, or any day with respect to which the U.S. Office of Personnel Management has announced that Federal agencies in the Washington, DC, area are closed. For purposes of calculating any deadline imposed by this part triggered by the submission of a party to a transaction under § 802.501(i), any submissions received after 5 p.m. Eastern Time are deemed to be submitted on the next business day.
Note 1 to § 802.201:
See § 802.604 regarding the tolling of deadlines during a lapse in appropriations.

§ 802.202   Certification.

(a) The term certification means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of a party filing a notice, declaration, or information, certifying under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notice, declaration, or information filed:
certification
means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of a party filing a notice, declaration, or information, certifying under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notice, declaration, or information filed:
(1) Fully complies with the requirements of section 721, the regulations in this part, and any agreement or condition entered into with the Committee or any member of the Committee, and
(2) Is accurate and complete in all material respects, as it relates to:
(i) The transaction; and
(ii) The party providing the certification, including its parents, subsidiaries, and any other related entities described in the notice, declaration, or information.
(b) For purposes of this section, a duly authorized designee is:
duly authorized designee
is:
(1) In the case of a partnership, any general partner thereof;
(2) In the case of a corporation, any officer or director thereof;
(3) In the case of any entity lacking partners, officers, and directors, any individual within the organization exercising executive functions similar to those of a general partner of a partnership or an officer or director of a corporation; and
(4) In the case of an individual, such individual or his or her legal representative.
(c) In each case described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, such designee must possess actual authority to make the certification on behalf of the party filing a notice, declaration, or information.
Note 1 to § 802.202:
A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website. See §§ 802.402(f) and 802.502(k) regarding filing procedures for transactions in which a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction.
See
§§ 802.402(f) and 802.502(k) regarding filing procedures for transactions in which a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction.

§ 802.203   Close proximity.

The term close proximity means, with respect to a military installation or another facility or property of the U.S. Government identified in this part, the area that extends outward one mile from the boundary of such military installation, facility, or property.
close proximity
means, with respect to a military installation or another facility or property of the U.S. Government identified in this part, the area that extends outward one mile from the boundary of such military installation, facility, or property.

§ 802.204   Committee; Chairperson of the Committee; Staff Chairperson.

The term Committee means the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The Chairperson of the Committee is the Secretary of the Treasury. The Staff Chairperson of the Committee is the Department of the Treasury official so designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or by the Secretary's designee.
Committee
means the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The
Chairperson of the Committee
is the Secretary of the Treasury. The
Staff Chairperson
of the Committee is the Department of the Treasury official so designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or by the Secretary's designee.

§ 802.205   Completion date.

The term completion date means, with respect to a transaction, the earliest date upon which the purchase, lease, or concession is made legally effective, or a change in rights that could result in a covered real estate transaction occurs.
completion date
means, with respect to a transaction, the earliest date upon which the purchase, lease, or concession is made legally effective, or a change in rights that could result in a covered real estate transaction occurs.
Note 1 to § 802.205:
See § 802.304 regarding the timing rule for a contingent equity interest.

§ 802.206   Concession.

The term concession means an arrangement, other than a purchase or lease, whereby a U.S. public entity grants a right to use real estate for the purpose of developing or operating infrastructure for a covered port. This term includes the assignment of a concession, in whole or in part, by the party who is not the U.S. public entity.
concession
means an arrangement, other than a purchase or lease, whereby a U.S. public entity grants a right to use real estate for the purpose of developing or operating infrastructure for a covered port. This term includes the assignment of a concession, in whole or in part, by the party who is not the U.S. public entity.

§ 802.207   Contingent equity interest.

The term contingent equity interest means a financial instrument that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event.
contingent equity interest
means a financial instrument that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event.

§ 802.208   Control.

(a) The term control means the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, through the ownership of a majority or a dominant minority of the total outstanding voting interest in an entity, board representation, proxy voting, a special share, contractual arrangements, formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or other means, to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting an entity; in particular, but without limitation, to determine, direct, take, reach, or cause decisions regarding the following matters, or any other similarly important matters affecting an entity:
control
means the power, direct or indirect, whether or not exercised, through the ownership of a majority or a dominant minority of the total outstanding voting interest in an entity, board representation, proxy voting, a special share, contractual arrangements, formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or other means, to determine, direct, or decide important matters affecting an entity; in particular, but without limitation, to determine, direct, take, reach, or cause decisions regarding the following matters, or any other similarly important matters affecting an entity:
(1) The sale, lease, mortgage, pledge, or other transfer of any of the tangible or intangible principal assets of the entity, whether or not in the ordinary course of business;
(2) The reorganization, merger, or dissolution of the entity;
(3) The closing, relocation, or substantial alteration of the production, operational, or research and development facilities of the entity;
(4) Major expenditures or investments, issuances of equity or debt, or dividend payments by the entity, or approval of the operating budget of the entity;
(5) The selection of new business lines or ventures that the entity will pursue;
(6) The entry into, termination, or non-fulfillment by the entity of significant contracts;
(7) The policies or procedures of the entity governing the treatment of non-public technical, financial, or other proprietary information of the entity;
(8) The appointment or dismissal of officers or senior managers or, in the case of a partnership, the general partner;
(9) The appointment or dismissal of employees with access to critical technology or other sensitive technology or classified U.S. Government information; or
(10) The amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of the entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.
(b) In examining questions of control in situations where more than one foreign person has an ownership interest in an entity, consideration will be given to factors such as whether the foreign persons are related or have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, whether they are agencies or instrumentalities of the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state, and whether a given foreign person and another person that has an ownership interest in the entity are both controlled by any of the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state.
(c) The following minority shareholder protections shall not in themselves be deemed to confer control over an entity:
(1) The power to prevent the sale or pledge of all or substantially all of the assets of an entity or a voluntary filing for bankruptcy or liquidation;
(2) The power to prevent an entity from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates;
(3) The power to prevent an entity from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates;
(4) The right to purchase an additional interest in an entity to prevent the dilution of an investor's pro rata interest in that entity in the event that the entity issues additional instruments conveying interests in the entity;
(5) The power to prevent the change of existing legal rights or preferences of the particular class of stock held by minority investors, as provided in the relevant corporate documents governing such shares; and
(6) The power to prevent the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of an entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.
(d) The Committee will consider, on a case-by-case basis, whether minority shareholder protections other than those listed in paragraph (c) of this section do not confer control over an entity.
Note 1 to § 802.208:
This definition is included herein for the purpose of determining whether a foreign person may be involved in a covered real estate transaction. For additional information, see the examples provided at § 800.208, as relevant.

§ 802.209   Conversion.

The term conversion means the exercise of a right inherent in the ownership or holding of a particular financial instrument to exchange any such instrument for an equity interest.
conversion
means the exercise of a right inherent in the ownership or holding of a particular financial instrument to exchange any such instrument for an equity interest.

§ 802.210   Covered port.

(a) The term covered port means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, any port that is listed:
covered port
means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, any port that is listed:
(1) In the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration's annual final enplanement data as a “large hub airport,” as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102;
(2) In the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration's annual final all-cargo landed weight data as an airport with annual aggregate all-cargo landed weight greater than 1.24 billion pounds;
(3) By the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration as a “joint use airport,” as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 47175;
(4) By the Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration as a commercial strategic seaport within the National Port Readiness Network; or
(5) By the Department of Transportation, Bureau of Transportation Statistics as a top 25 tonnage, container, or dry bulk port.
(b) For purposes of determining whether a port constitutes a covered port under paragraph (a) of this section,
(1) Any port that is added after February 13, 2020 to any of the lists described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed not to be in effect as a covered port until 30 days after the port's addition to the relevant list maintained by the Department of Transportation; and
(2) In the context of a particular transaction, the covered ports in effect on the day immediately prior to, the earlier of, the date on which the parties sign a written document establishing the material terms of the transaction, or the completion date of the transaction, shall apply.
Note 1 to § 802.210:
The lists described in paragraph (a) of this section are published on the Department of Transportation website.

§ 802.211   Covered real estate.

The term covered real estate means real estate that:
covered real estate
means real estate that:
(a) Is, is located within, or will function as part of, a covered port; or
(b) Is located within:
(1) Close proximity of any military installation described in § 802.227(b) to (o), or another facility or property of the U.S. Government, in each case as identified in the list at part 1 or part 2 of appendix A to this part;
(2) The extended range of any military installation described in § 802.227(h), (k), or (m), as identified in the list at part 2 of appendix A to this part;
(3) Any county or other geographic area identified in connection with any military installation described in § 802.227(a), as identified in the list at part 3 of appendix A to this part; or
(4) Any part of a military installation described in § 802.227(p), as identified at part 4 of appendix A to this part, to the extent located within the limits of the territorial sea of the United States.

§ 802.212   Covered real estate transaction.

The term covered real estate transaction means:
covered real estate transaction
means:
(a) Other than an excepted real estate transaction, any purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person of covered real estate, that affords the foreign person at least three of the property rights under § 802.233;
(b) Other than an excepted real estate transaction, any purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person of covered real estate, that, through a subsequent change in the rights that a foreign person has with respect to that covered real estate, results in the foreign person having at least three of the property rights under § 802.233; or
(c) Any other transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement, the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of section 721 as it relates to real estate transactions.
Note 1 to § 802.212:
Any transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement described in this section that arises pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding or other form of default on debt is a covered real estate transaction. See also § 802.303 for the treatment of certain lending transactions.

§ 802.213   Entity.

The term entity means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state); assets (whether or not organized as a separate legal entity) operated by any one of the foregoing as a business undertaking in a particular location or for particular products or services; and any government (including a foreign national or subnational government, the U.S. Government, a subnational government within the United States, and any of their respective departments, agencies, or instrumentalities).
entity
means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state); assets (whether or not organized as a separate legal entity) operated by any one of the foregoing as a business undertaking in a particular location or for particular products or services; and any government (including a foreign national or subnational government, the U.S. Government, a subnational government within the United States, and any of their respective departments, agencies, or instrumentalities).

§ 802.214   Excepted real estate foreign state.

The term excepted real estate foreign state means, until February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section, and beginning on February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets both the criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
excepted real estate foreign state
means, until February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section, and beginning on February 13, 2023, a foreign state that meets both the criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(a) Is identified by the Committee as an eligible foreign state and
(b) Is a foreign state for which the Committee has made a determination under § 802.1001(a).
Note 1 to § 802.214:
The name of each foreign state identified by the Committee as an eligible foreign state will be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website. See § 802.1001(c) regarding the publication of a notice in the Federal Register of a determination under § 802.1001(a). The list of excepted real estate foreign states will also be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
Federal Register
of a determination under § 802.1001(a). The list of excepted real estate foreign states will also be available at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 732, Feb. 4, 2022]]

§ 802.215   Excepted real estate investor.

(a) The term excepted real estate investor means a foreign person who is, as of the completion date of the transaction and subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:
excepted real estate investor
means a foreign person who is, as of the completion date of the transaction and subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:
(1) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted real estate foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted real estate foreign state;
(2) A foreign government of an excepted real estate foreign state; or
(3) An entity that meets each of the following conditions with respect to itself and each of its parents (if any):
(i) Such entity is organized under the laws of an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States;
(ii) Such entity has its principal place of business in an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States;
(iii) Seventy-five percent or more of the members and 75 percent or more of the observers of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such entity are:
(A) U.S. nationals; or
(B) Nationals of one or more excepted real estate foreign states who are not also nationals of any foreign state that is not an excepted real estate foreign state;
(iv) Any foreign person that individually, and each foreign person that is part of a group of foreign persons that in the aggregate, holds 10 percent or more of the outstanding voting interest of such entity; holds the right to 10 percent or more of the profits of such entity; holds the right in the event of dissolution to 10 percent or more of the assets of such entity; or otherwise could exercise control over such entity, is:
(A) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted real estate foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted real estate foreign state;
(B) A foreign government of an excepted real estate foreign state; or
(C) An entity that is organized under the laws of an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States and has its principal place of business in an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States; and
(v) The minimum excepted ownership of such entity is held, individually or in the aggregate, by one or more persons each of whom is:
(A) Not a foreign person;
(B) A foreign national who is a national of one or more excepted real estate foreign states and is not also a national of any foreign state that is not an excepted real estate foreign state;
(C) A foreign government of an excepted real estate foreign state; or
(D) An entity that is organized under the laws of an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States and has its principal place of business in an excepted real estate foreign state or in the United States.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, foreign persons who are related, have formal or informal arrangements to act in concert, or are agencies or instrumentalities of, or controlled by, the national or subnational governments of a single foreign state are considered part of a group of foreign persons and their individual ownerships are aggregated.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a foreign person is not an excepted real estate investor with respect to a transaction if:
(1) In the five years prior to the completion date of the transaction the foreign person, any of its parents, or any entity of which it is a parent:
(i) Has received written notice from the Committee that it has submitted a material misstatement or omission in a notice or declaration or made a false certification under this part or part 800 or 801 of this chapter;
(ii) Has received written notice from the Committee that it has violated a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into with, material condition imposed by, or an order issued by, the Committee or a lead agency under section 721(l);
(iii) Has been subject to action by the President under section 721(d);
(iv) Has:
(A) Received a written Finding of Violation or Penalty Notice imposing a civil monetary penalty from the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC); or
(B) Entered into a settlement agreement with OFAC with respect to apparent violations of U.S. sanctions laws administered by OFAC, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Trading With the Enemy Act, the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, each as amended, or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
(v) Has received a written notice of debarment from the Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, as described in 22 CFR parts 127 and 128;
(vi) Has been a respondent or party in a final order, including a settlement order, issued by the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) regarding violations of U.S. export control laws administered by BIS, including the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.), the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730-774), or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
et seq.
), the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730-774), or of any executive order, regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto;
(vii) Has received a final decision from the Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration imposing a civil penalty with respect to a violation of section 57 b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as implemented under 10 CFR part 810; or
(viii) Has been convicted of, or has entered into a deferred prosecution agreement or non-prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice with respect to, any felony in any jurisdiction within the United States; or
(2) The foreign person, any of its parents, or any entity of which it is a parent is, on the date on which the parties to the transaction first execute a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction, listed on either the BIS Unverified List or Entity List in 15 CFR part 744.
(d) Irrespective of whether the foreign person satisfies the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section as of the completion date, if at any time during the three-year period following the completion date the foreign person no longer meets all the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, the foreign person is not an excepted real estate investor with respect to the transaction from the completion date onward. This paragraph does not apply when an excepted real estate investor no longer meets any of the criteria solely due to a rescission of a determination under § 802.1001(b) or if the relevant foreign state otherwise ceases to be an excepted real estate foreign state.
(e) A foreign person may waive its status as an excepted real estate investor with respect to a transaction at any time by submitting a declaration under § 802.401 or filing a notice under § 802.501 regarding the transaction in which it explicitly waives such status. In such case, the foreign person will be deemed not to be an excepted real estate investor with respect to the transaction, and the relevant provisions of subpart D or E will apply.
Note 1 to § 802.215:
See § 802.501(c)(2) regarding an agency notice where a foreign person is not an excepted real estate investor solely due to paragraph (d) of this section.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020; 85 FR 8747, Feb. 18, 2020]]

§ 802.216   Excepted real estate transaction.

The term excepted real estate transaction means the following:
excepted real estate transaction
means the following:
(a) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, an excepted real estate investor of covered real estate, or a change in rights of an excepted real estate investor with respect to covered real estate.
(b) A covered transaction as defined in part 800 of this chapter that includes the purchase, lease, or concession of covered real estate.
(c) The purchase, lease, or concession of covered real estate that is within an urbanized area or urban cluster, except for real estate that is subject to paragraph (a) or (b)(1) of § 802.211.
(d) The purchase, lease, or concession of covered real estate that is a single housing unit, including fixtures and adjacent land to the extent that such fixtures and land are incidental to the use of the real estate as a single housing unit.
(e) The lease by or a concession to a foreign person of covered real estate under paragraph (a) of § 802.211 if:
(1) The foreign person is a foreign air carrier, as that term is defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(21), for whom the Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration has accepted a security program under 49 CFR 1546.105, but only to the extent that the lease or concession is in furtherance of its activities as a foreign air carrier; or
(2) According to the terms of the lease or concession, the covered real estate may be used only for the purpose of engaging in the retail sale of consumer goods or services to the public.
(f) The purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person of commercial space in a multi-unit building that is covered real estate, if, upon the completion of the transaction:
(1) The foreign person and its affiliates do not, in the aggregate, hold, lease, or have a concession with respect to commercial space in such building that exceeds 10 percent of the total square footage of the commercial space of such building; and
(2) The foreign person and its affiliates (each counted separately) do not represent more than 10 percent of the total number of tenants based on the number of ownership, lease and concession arrangements for commercial space in the building.
(g) The purchase or lease by, or a concession to, a foreign person of covered real estate either:
(1) Owned by an Alaska “Native village,” “Native group,” or “Native Corporation” as those terms are defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act at 43 U.S.C. 1602; or
(2) Held in trust by the United States for American Indians, Indian tribes, Alaska Natives, or any of the entities set forth in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(h) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation X is in the business of owning and leasing real estate, including real estate properties that are in close proximity to military installations identified in part 1 and part 2 of appendix A to this part. As the sole owner of Corporation X, Corporation A will have control over Corporation X. The proposed transaction is not a covered real estate transaction but is a covered transaction under part 800 of this chapter.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase all of the shares of Corporation X, a U.S. business. Corporation X is in the business of owning and leasing real estate, including real estate properties that are in close proximity to military installations identified in part 1 and part 2 of appendix A to this part. As the sole owner of Corporation X, Corporation A will have control over Corporation X. The proposed transaction is not a covered real estate transaction but is a covered transaction under part 800 of this chapter.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. After the transaction contemplated in Example 1 of this section is completed, Corporation X leases from another person a tract of land that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is a covered real estate transaction but only with respect to the new lease.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. After the transaction contemplated in Example 1 of this section is completed, Corporation X leases from another person a tract of land that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the proposed transaction is a covered real estate transaction but only with respect to the new lease.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to purchase from Corporation X an empty warehouse located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the purchase of the covered real estate is not a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter because Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, and the purchase is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, seeks to purchase from Corporation X an empty warehouse located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Assuming no other relevant facts, the purchase of the covered real estate is not a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter because Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, and the purchase is a covered real estate transaction.
(4) Example 4. Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed purchase of Corporation X's empty warehouse, Corporation A would also acquire from Corporation X the personnel, customer list, equipment, and inventory management software used to operate the warehouse. Under these facts, Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed transaction is a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter and therefore not a covered real estate transaction.
Example 4.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, except that, in addition to the proposed purchase of Corporation X's empty warehouse, Corporation A would also acquire from Corporation X the personnel, customer list, equipment, and inventory management software used to operate the warehouse. Under these facts, Corporation A is acquiring a U.S. business, and the proposed transaction is a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter and therefore not a covered real estate transaction.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases covered real estate that is undeveloped and in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, through a newly incorporated U.S. subsidiary, intends to use the covered real estate to set up a manufacturing facility. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, the purchase of the covered real estate is not a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter, and Corporation A's purchase of the covered real estate is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases covered real estate that is undeveloped and in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Corporation A, through a newly incorporated U.S. subsidiary, intends to use the covered real estate to set up a manufacturing facility. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A has not acquired a U.S. business, the purchase of the covered real estate is not a covered transaction subject to part 800 of this chapter, and Corporation A's purchase of the covered real estate is a covered real estate transaction.
(6) Example 6. A foreign person purchases real estate. The nearest military installation is one that is identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part and is 40 miles away (i.e., in the extended range) from the real estate. The real estate is located in a statistical geographic area with a population of 125,000 individuals. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is not a covered real estate transaction because the covered real estate is located in an urbanized area.
Example 6.
A foreign person purchases real estate. The nearest military installation is one that is identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part and is 40 miles away (
i.e.,
in the extended range) from the real estate. The real estate is located in a statistical geographic area with a population of 125,000 individuals. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is not a covered real estate transaction because the covered real estate is located in an urbanized area.
(7) Example 7. Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(6) of this section, except that the covered real estate is not located in an urbanized area or an urban cluster. Assuming no other relevant facts, the real estate transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 7.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(6) of this section, except that the covered real estate is not located in an urbanized area or an urban cluster. Assuming no other relevant facts, the real estate transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
(8) Example 8. A foreign person purchases real estate that is 0.25 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. The real estate is located in an urbanized area. Assuming no other relevant facts, the real estate transaction is a covered real estate transaction because it is in close proximity to a military installation listed in part 1 of appendix A to this part.
Example 8.
A foreign person purchases real estate that is 0.25 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. The real estate is located in an urbanized area. Assuming no other relevant facts, the real estate transaction is a covered real estate transaction because it is in close proximity to a military installation listed in part 1 of appendix A to this part.
(9) Example 9. A foreign person purchases a single housing unit, including the one acre of land surrounding it, within 0.5 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Each home in the neighborhood sits on a separate lot, each of which is approximately one acre in size. The acre of land surrounding the housing unit is incidental to use of the land as a single housing unit, and the real estate transaction therefore is not a covered real estate transaction.
Example 9.
A foreign person purchases a single housing unit, including the one acre of land surrounding it, within 0.5 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. Each home in the neighborhood sits on a separate lot, each of which is approximately one acre in size. The acre of land surrounding the housing unit is incidental to use of the land as a single housing unit, and the real estate transaction therefore is not a covered real estate transaction.
(10) Example 10. Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(9) of this section, except that the foreign person also purchases an adjacent five acres of undeveloped land a year later. Assuming no other relevant facts, the purchase of the adjacent land is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 10.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (h)(9) of this section, except that the foreign person also purchases an adjacent five acres of undeveloped land a year later. Assuming no other relevant facts, the purchase of the adjacent land is a covered real estate transaction.
(11) Example 11. A foreign person leases five percent of the total commercial space in a building located 0.5 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. There are nine other tenants that have leases for commercial space with the building owner. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a not a covered real estate transaction.
Example 11.
A foreign person leases five percent of the total commercial space in a building located 0.5 miles from a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part. There are nine other tenants that have leases for commercial space with the building owner. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a not a covered real estate transaction.
Note 1 to § 802.216:
With respect to paragraph (d) of this section, for purposes herein, fixtures and land may be considered incidental if the size and nature of such is common for similar single housing units in the locality in which the unit is located.

§ 802.217   Extended range.

The term extended range means, with respect to any military installation identified in § 802.227(h), (k), or (m), as listed in part 2 of appendix A to this part, the area that extends 99 miles outward from the outer boundary of close proximity to such military installation, but, where applicable, not exceeding the outer limit of the territorial sea of the United States.
extended range
means, with respect to any military installation identified in § 802.227(h), (k), or (m), as listed in part 2 of appendix A to this part, the area that extends 99 miles outward from the outer boundary of close proximity to such military installation, but, where applicable, not exceeding the outer limit of the territorial sea of the United States.

§ 802.218   Foreign entity.

(a) The term foreign entity means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization organized under the laws of a foreign state if either its principal place of business is outside the United States or its equity securities are primarily traded on one or more foreign exchanges.
foreign entity
means any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization organized under the laws of a foreign state if either its principal place of business is outside the United States or its equity securities are primarily traded on one or more foreign exchanges.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, any branch, partnership, group or sub-group, association, estate, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, or organization that can demonstrate that a majority of the equity interest in such entity is ultimately owned by U.S. nationals is not a foreign entity.

§ 802.219   Foreign government.

The term foreign government means any government or body exercising governmental functions, other than the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States. The term includes, but is not limited to, national and subnational governments, including their respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities.
foreign government
means any government or body exercising governmental functions, other than the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States. The term includes, but is not limited to, national and subnational governments, including their respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities.

§ 802.220   Foreign national.

The term foreign national means any individual other than a U.S. national.
foreign national
means any individual other than a U.S. national.

§ 802.221   Foreign person.

(a) The term foreign person means:
foreign person
means:
(1) Any foreign national, foreign government, or foreign entity; or
(2) Any entity over which control is exercised or exercisable by a foreign national, foreign government, or foreign entity.
(b) Any entity over which control is exercised or exercisable by a foreign person is a foreign person.
(c) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is engaged in business only outside the United States. All of its shares are held by Corporation X, which solely controls Corporation A. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A, although organized and operating only outside the United States, is not a foreign entity due to § 802.218(b) and is not a foreign person.
Example 1.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is engaged in business only outside the United States. All of its shares are held by Corporation X, which solely controls Corporation A. Corporation X is organized in the United States and is wholly owned and controlled by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A, although organized and operating only outside the United States, is not a foreign entity due to § 802.218(b) and is not a foreign person.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the first sentence of the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The government of the foreign state under whose laws Corporation A is organized exercises control over Corporation A because a law establishing Corporation A gives the foreign state the right to appoint Corporation A's board members. Corporation A is a foreign person.
Example 2.
Same facts as the first sentence of the example in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The government of the foreign state under whose laws Corporation A is organized exercises control over Corporation A because a law establishing Corporation A gives the foreign state the right to appoint Corporation A's board members. Corporation A is a foreign person.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A is organized in the United States, is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, and is controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized under the laws of a foreign state, its principal place of business is located outside the United States, and 50 percent of its shares are held by foreign nationals and 50 percent of its shares are held by U.S. nationals. Both Corporation A and Corporation X are foreign persons. Corporation A is also a U.S. business.
Example 3.
Corporation A is organized in the United States, is engaged in interstate commerce in the United States, and is controlled by Corporation X. Corporation X is organized under the laws of a foreign state, its principal place of business is located outside the United States, and 50 percent of its shares are held by foreign nationals and 50 percent of its shares are held by U.S. nationals. Both Corporation A and Corporation X are foreign persons. Corporation A is also a U.S. business.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is owned and controlled by a foreign national. A branch of Corporation A engages in interstate commerce in the United States. Corporation A (including its branch) is a foreign person. The branch is also a U.S. business.
Example 4.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and is owned and controlled by a foreign national. A branch of Corporation A engages in interstate commerce in the United States. Corporation A (including its branch) is a foreign person. The branch is also a U.S. business.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and its principal place of business is located outside the United States. Forty-five percent of the equity interest in Corporation A is owned in equal shares by numerous unrelated foreign investors, none of whom has control. The foreign investors have no formal or informal arrangement with any other holder of equity interest in Corporation A to act in concert regarding Corporation A. Corporation A can demonstrate that the remainder of the equity interest in Corporation A is ultimately held by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity or foreign person.
Example 5.
Corporation A is organized under the laws of a foreign state and its principal place of business is located outside the United States. Forty-five percent of the equity interest in Corporation A is owned in equal shares by numerous unrelated foreign investors, none of whom has control. The foreign investors have no formal or informal arrangement with any other holder of equity interest in Corporation A to act in concert regarding Corporation A. Corporation A can demonstrate that the remainder of the equity interest in Corporation A is ultimately held by U.S. nationals. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity or foreign person.
(6) Example 6. Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, except that one of the foreign investors, a foreign national, controls Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity due to § 802.218(b), but it is a foreign person under paragraph (a)(2) of this section because it is controlled by a foreign national.
Example 6.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, except that one of the foreign investors, a foreign national, controls Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A is not a foreign entity due to § 802.218(b), but it is a foreign person under paragraph (a)(2) of this section because it is controlled by a foreign national.

§ 802.222   Hold.

The terms hold(s) and holding mean legal or beneficial ownership, whether direct or indirect, whether through fiduciaries, agents, or other means.
hold(s)
and
holding
mean legal or beneficial ownership, whether direct or indirect, whether through fiduciaries, agents, or other means.

§ 802.223   Housing unit.

The term housing unit means a single family house, townhome, mobile home or trailer, apartment, group of rooms, or single room that is occupied as a separate living quarters, or, if vacant, is intended for occupancy as a separate living quarters.
housing unit
means a single family house, townhome, mobile home or trailer, apartment, group of rooms, or single room that is occupied as a separate living quarters, or, if vacant, is intended for occupancy as a separate living quarters.

§ 802.224   Investment fund.

The term investment fund means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.), or would be an “investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.
investment fund
means any entity that is an “investment company,” as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), or would be an “investment company” but for one or more of the exemptions provided in section 3(b) or 3(c) thereunder.

§ 802.225   Lead agency.

The term lead agency means the Department of the Treasury and any other agency designated by the Chairperson of the Committee to have primary responsibility, on behalf of the Committee, for the specific activity for which the Chairperson designates it as a lead agency, including all or a portion of an assessment, a review, an investigation, or the negotiation or monitoring of a mitigation agreement or condition.
lead agency
means the Department of the Treasury and any other agency designated by the Chairperson of the Committee to have primary responsibility, on behalf of the Committee, for the specific activity for which the Chairperson designates it as a lead agency, including all or a portion of an assessment, a review, an investigation, or the negotiation or monitoring of a mitigation agreement or condition.

§ 802.226   Lease.

(a) The term lease means an arrangement conveying a possessory interest in real estate, short of ownership, to a person for a specified time and in exchange for consideration. This term includes subleases and assignments in whole or part.
lease
means an arrangement conveying a possessory interest in real estate, short of ownership, to a person for a specified time and in exchange for consideration. This term includes subleases and assignments in whole or part.
(b) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Foreign person A enters into an arrangement with a neighbor that allows the foreign person to use a private road running across the neighbor's land. The road will remain owned by the neighbor following the arrangement. The neighbor will also retain physical possession of his land despite the foreign person having permission to traverse the land while using the road. The arrangement does not convey a possessory interest in real estate. Assuming no other relevant facts, the foreign person has not entered into a lease.
Example 1.
Foreign person A enters into an arrangement with a neighbor that allows the foreign person to use a private road running across the neighbor's land. The road will remain owned by the neighbor following the arrangement. The neighbor will also retain physical possession of his land despite the foreign person having permission to traverse the land while using the road. The arrangement does not convey a possessory interest in real estate. Assuming no other relevant facts, the foreign person has not entered into a lease.
(2) Example 2. Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that the foreign person's arrangement with the neighbor gives the foreign person the exclusive right to occupy a portion of the neighbor's land and attach fixtures to the surface, in exchange for a fee for a specified period of time. The foreign person can unilaterally adjust, remove, and make other changes to the fixtures. The foreign person has entered into a lease.
Example 2.
Same facts as the example in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that the foreign person's arrangement with the neighbor gives the foreign person the exclusive right to occupy a portion of the neighbor's land and attach fixtures to the surface, in exchange for a fee for a specified period of time. The foreign person can unilaterally adjust, remove, and make other changes to the fixtures. The foreign person has entered into a lease.
Note 1 to § 802.226:
See § 800.249(a)(5) for certain long-term leases and concessions that could be subject to part 800 of this chapter.

§ 802.227   Military installation.

The term military installation means any site that meets the following category descriptions, as identified in the list at appendix A to this part:
military installation
means any site that meets the following category descriptions, as identified in the list at appendix A to this part:
(a) Active Air Force ballistic missile fields;
(b) Air Force bases administering active Air Force ballistic missile fields;
(c) Air Force bases and major annexes thereof containing a unit from the Air Force Air Combat Command;
(d) Air Force bases and major annexes thereof containing an Air Force research laboratory or test unit and associated sites;
(e) Air Force bases and major annexes thereof, and Space Force bases and major annexes thereof containing a unit of the North American Aerospace Defense Command and its regions;
(f) Air Force bases, Air Force stations, Space Force bases, Space Force stations, and major annexes thereof, containing satellite, telemetry, tracking, or commanding systems;
(g) Army bases, ammunition plants, centers of excellence, major depots and arsenals, military terminals, and research laboratories and major annexes thereof;
(h) Army combat training centers located in the continental United States;
(i) Headquarters of the Office of the Secretary of Defense and Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and major offices and annexes thereof;
(j) Long range radar sites and major annexes thereof in any of the following states: Alaska, North Dakota, California, or Massachusetts;
(k) Major range and test facility base activities as defined in 10 U.S.C. 196;
(l) Marine Corps bases and air stations and major annexes thereof, excluding detachments and recruit depots;
(m) Military ranges as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101 (f)(1), or joint forces training centers;
(n) Naval bases and air stations including major support activities and annexes;
(o) Naval surface, air, and undersea warfare centers and research laboratories and major annexes thereof; and
(p) Navy off-shore range complexes and off-shore operating areas.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 57350, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 88133, Nov. 7, 2024]]

§ 802.228   Minimum excepted ownership.

The term minimum excepted ownership means:
minimum excepted ownership
means:
(a) With respect to an entity whose equity securities are primarily traded on an exchange in an excepted real estate foreign state or the United States, a majority of its voting interest, the right to a majority of its profits, and the right in the event of dissolution to a majority of its assets; and
(b) With respect to an entity whose equity securities are not primarily traded on an exchange in an excepted real estate foreign state or the United States, 80 percent or more of its voting interest, the right to 80 percent or more of its profits, and the right in the event of dissolution to 80 percent or more of its assets.

§ 802.229   Parent.

(a) The term parent means, with respect to an entity:
parent
means, with respect to an entity:
(1) A person who or which directly or indirectly:
(i) Holds or will hold at least 50 percent of the outstanding voting interest in the entity; or
(ii) Holds or will hold the right to at least 50 percent of the profits of the entity, or has or will have the right in the event of dissolution to at least 50 percent of the assets of the entity; or
(2) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity.
(b) Any entity that meets the conditions of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section with respect to another entity (i.e., the intermediate parent) is also a parent of any other entity of which the intermediate parent is a parent.
i.e.,
the intermediate parent) is also a parent of any other entity of which the intermediate parent is a parent.
(c) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation P holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporations R and S; Corporation R holds 40 percent of the voting interest in Corporation X; and Corporation S holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Y, which in turn holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Z. Corporation P is a parent of Corporations R, S, Y, and Z, but not of Corporation X. Corporation S is a parent of Corporation Y and Z, and Corporation Y is a parent of Corporation Z.
Example 1.
Corporation P holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporations R and S; Corporation R holds 40 percent of the voting interest in Corporation X; and Corporation S holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Y, which in turn holds 50 percent of the voting interest in Corporation Z. Corporation P is a parent of Corporations R, S, Y, and Z, but not of Corporation X. Corporation S is a parent of Corporation Y and Z, and Corporation Y is a parent of Corporation Z.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A holds warrants which when exercised will entitle it to vote 50 percent of the outstanding shares of Corporation B. Corporation A is a parent of Corporation B.
Example 2.
Corporation A holds warrants which when exercised will entitle it to vote 50 percent of the outstanding shares of Corporation B. Corporation A is a parent of Corporation B.
(3) Example 3. Investor A holds 60 percent of the outstanding voting interest in Corporation B. Investor C holds the right to 80 percent of the profits of Corporation B. Each of Investor A and Investor C is a parent of Corporation B.
Example 3.
Investor A holds 60 percent of the outstanding voting interest in Corporation B. Investor C holds the right to 80 percent of the profits of Corporation B. Each of Investor A and Investor C is a parent of Corporation B.

§ 802.230   Party to a transaction.

(a) The term party to a transaction means:
party to a transaction
means:
(1) In the case of a purchase, the person acquiring the ownership interest, the person from whom such ownership interest is acquired, and the entity whose ownership interest is being acquired, without regard to any person providing brokerage or underwriting services for the transaction;
(2) In the case of a lease, the person acquiring the possessory interest, and the person from whom such possessory interest is acquired;
(3) In the case of a concession, the person receiving the right to use the covered real estate, and the U.S. public entity;
(4) In the case of a change in rights that a person has with respect to covered real estate as a result of a purchase, lease, or concession, the person whose rights change as a result of the transaction, and the person conveying those rights; and
(5) In the case of any other transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement, the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of section 721, any person that participates in such transaction, transfer, agreement, or arrangement.
(6) In all cases, each party that submitted a declaration or notice to the Committee regarding a transaction.
(b) For purposes of section 721(l), the term party to a transaction includes any affiliate of any party described in paragraph (a) of this section that the Committee, or a lead agency acting on behalf of the Committee, determines is relevant to mitigating a risk to the national security of the United States.
party to a transaction
includes any affiliate of any party described in paragraph (a) of this section that the Committee, or a lead agency acting on behalf of the Committee, determines is relevant to mitigating a risk to the national security of the United States.

§ 802.231   Person.

The term person means any individual or entity.
person
means any individual or entity.

§ 802.232   Principal place of business.

(a) The term principal place of business means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.
principal place of business
means, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.
(b) If the location determined under paragraph (a) of this section is in the United States and the entity has represented to the U.S. Government or a subnational government of the United States or any foreign government, in the most recent submission or filing to such government (other than a submission or filing to the Committee) in which the entity has identified its principal place of business, principal office and place of business, address of principal executive offices, address of headquarters, or equivalent, that any of the foregoing is outside the United States, then the location identified in such submission or filing is deemed for purposes of this definition to be the entity's principal place of business unless the entity can demonstrate that such location has changed to the United States since such submission or filing.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 45313, July 28, 2020]]

§ 802.233   Property right.

(a) The term property right means, with respect to real estate, any of the following rights or abilities, whether or not exercised, whether or not shared concurrently with any other person, and whether or not the underlying real estate is subject to an easement or other encumbrance:
property right
means, with respect to real estate, any of the following rights or abilities, whether or not exercised, whether or not shared concurrently with any other person, and whether or not the underlying real estate is subject to an easement or other encumbrance:
(1) To physically access the real estate;
(2) To exclude others from physically accessing the real estate;
(3) To improve or develop the real estate; or
(4) To attach fixed or immovable structures or objects to the real estate.
(b) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a lease of real estate. Although at least one other person shares concurrently with Corporation A the right to access the property, Corporation A retains the right to physically exclude others from access that would interfere with its rights under the lease. Under the lease, Corporation A has the right to exclude others from physically accessing the real estate, and therefore affords the foreign person a property right.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a lease of real estate. Although at least one other person shares concurrently with Corporation A the right to access the property, Corporation A retains the right to physically exclude others from access that would interfere with its rights under the lease. Under the lease, Corporation A has the right to exclude others from physically accessing the real estate, and therefore affords the foreign person a property right.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a lease of real estate that allows Corporation A to develop the real estate. The exercise of the right to develop the real estate is subject to Corporation A obtaining the appropriate regulatory permits. Notwithstanding the fact that Corporation A has not fully exercised its lease right pending the issuance of the permits, Corporation A is a party to lease that affords it a property right for purposes of this part.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a lease of real estate that allows Corporation A to develop the real estate. The exercise of the right to develop the real estate is subject to Corporation A obtaining the appropriate regulatory permits. Notwithstanding the fact that Corporation A has not fully exercised its lease right pending the issuance of the permits, Corporation A is a party to lease that affords it a property right for purposes of this part.

§ 802.234   Purchase.

(a) The term purchase means an arrangement conveying an ownership interest in real estate to a person in exchange for consideration.
purchase
means an arrangement conveying an ownership interest in real estate to a person in exchange for consideration.
(b) Example: Person A, a foreign person, acquires covered real estate from Person B, a U.S. national, in exchange for land and services. Person A has purchased the covered real estate because the arrangement was predicated on consideration in the form of land and services.

§ 802.235   Real estate.

The term real estate means any land, including subsurface and submerged, or structure attached to land, including any building or any part thereof, that is located in the United States.
real estate
means any land, including subsurface and submerged, or structure attached to land, including any building or any part thereof, that is located in the United States.

§ 802.236   Section 721.

The term section 721 means section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565).
section 721
means section 721 of title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4565).

§ 802.237   Transaction.

The term transaction means any purchase or lease by, or concession to, a person of real estate, whether proposed or completed.
transaction
means any purchase or lease by, or concession to, a person of real estate, whether proposed or completed.

§ 802.238   United States.

The term United States or U.S. means the United States of America, the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States. For purposes of these regulations and their examples in this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”
United States
or
U.S.
means the United States of America, the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States. For purposes of these regulations and their examples in this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”

§ 802.239   Urban cluster.

The term urban cluster means a statistical geographic area as identified in the most recent U.S. Census consisting of a densely settled core created from census tracts or blocks and contiguous qualifying territory that together have at least 2,500 individuals but fewer than 50,000 individuals.
urban cluster
means a statistical geographic area as identified in the most recent U.S. Census consisting of a densely settled core created from census tracts or blocks and contiguous qualifying territory that together have at least 2,500 individuals but fewer than 50,000 individuals.

§ 802.240   Urbanized area.

The term urbanized area means a statistical geographic area as identified in the most recent U.S. Census consisting of a densely settled core created from census tracts or blocks and contiguous qualifying territory that together have a minimum population of at least 50,000 individuals.
urbanized area
means a statistical geographic area as identified in the most recent U.S. Census consisting of a densely settled core created from census tracts or blocks and contiguous qualifying territory that together have a minimum population of at least 50,000 individuals.

§ 802.241   U.S. business.

The term U.S. business means any entity, irrespective of the nationality of the persons that control it, engaged in interstate commerce in the United States.
U.S. business
means any entity, irrespective of the nationality of the persons that control it, engaged in interstate commerce in the United States.
Note 1 to § 802.241:
See examples to definition in § 800.252.

§ 802.242   U.S. national.

The term U.S. national means an individual who is a U.S. citizen or an individual who, although not a U.S. citizen, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
U.S. national
means an individual who is a U.S. citizen or an individual who, although not a U.S. citizen, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.

§ 802.243   U.S. public entity.

The term U.S. public entity means the U.S. Government, a subnational government of the United States, or any other body exercising governmental functions of the United States, including air and maritime port authorities. The term includes, but is not limited to, the respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the U.S. Government and the subnational governments of the United States.
U.S. public entity
means the U.S. Government, a subnational government of the United States, or any other body exercising governmental functions of the United States, including air and maritime port authorities. The term includes, but is not limited to, the respective departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the U.S. Government and the subnational governments of the United States.

§ 802.244   Voting interest.

The term voting interest means any interest in an entity that entitles the owner or holder of that interest to vote for the election of directors of the entity (or, with respect to unincorporated entities, individuals exercising similar functions) or to vote on other matters affecting the entity.
voting interest
means any interest in an entity that entitles the owner or holder of that interest to vote for the election of directors of the entity (or, with respect to unincorporated entities, individuals exercising similar functions) or to vote on other matters affecting the entity.

Subpart C—Coverage


§ 802.301   Transactions that are covered real estate transactions.

Transactions that are covered real estate transactions include:
(a) A transaction that meets the criteria of § 802.212, including where a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) enters into a purchase or lease of, or obtains a concession to, covered real estate either directly or indirectly. (See the examples in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.)
(b) A purchase by a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of less than full ownership of covered real estate that nevertheless affords the foreign person at least three property rights with respect to the covered real estate. (See the example in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.)
(c) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of real estate, a portion of which is covered real estate with respect to which the foreign person has at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.)
(d) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of a portion of covered real estate with respect to which the foreign person has at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.)
(e) A purchase, lease, or assignment of a concession, of covered real estate that meets the criteria of § 802.212 by one foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) from another foreign person. (See the example in paragraph (h)(6) of this section.)
(f) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person (other than an excepted real estate investor) of covered real estate, that, through a subsequent change in the rights that a foreign person has with respect to covered real estate, results in the foreign person having at least three property rights. (See the example in paragraph (h)(7) of this section.)
(g) A transaction the structure of which is designed or intended to evade or circumvent the application of this part.
(h) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires Corporation X, a U.S. business. As a result, Corporation X is a foreign person. Subsequently, Corporation X purchases real estate that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part and obtains all of the property rights with respect to such real estate. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, acquires Corporation X, a U.S. business. As a result, Corporation X is a foreign person. Subsequently, Corporation X purchases real estate that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part and obtains all of the property rights with respect to such real estate. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A purchases covered real estate that is undeveloped land. Corporation A's only asset in the United States is the covered real estate, and Corporation A is not itself nor does it own a U.S. business. In a subsequent transaction, Corporation B, a foreign person, purchases 100 percent of the shares of Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, the subsequent transaction as an indirect purchase of real estate is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 2.
Corporation A purchases covered real estate that is undeveloped land. Corporation A's only asset in the United States is the covered real estate, and Corporation A is not itself nor does it own a U.S. business. In a subsequent transaction, Corporation B, a foreign person, purchases 100 percent of the shares of Corporation A. Assuming no other relevant facts, the subsequent transaction as an indirect purchase of real estate is a covered real estate transaction.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a foreign person, together with Corporation B, a U.S. business, purchases real estate that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Neither party has full ownership; rather, the title to the real estate is held by the two parties jointly. Corporation A is afforded at least three property rights as a result of the transaction. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, together with Corporation B, a U.S. business, purchases real estate that is in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Neither party has full ownership; rather, the title to the real estate is held by the two parties jointly. Corporation A is afforded at least three property rights as a result of the transaction. Assuming no other relevant facts, the transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases real estate. Half of such real estate is located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part of and is therefore covered real estate. The other half of the real estate purchased by Corporation A is not located in close proximity to any such military installation. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A's purchase is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases real estate. Half of such real estate is located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 1 of appendix A to this part of and is therefore covered real estate. The other half of the real estate purchased by Corporation A is not located in close proximity to any such military installation. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation A's purchase is a covered real estate transaction.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a U.S. business, purchases covered real estate that is entirely located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Corporation B, a foreign person, leases from Corporation A a part of that real estate. Corporation B is entitled to at least three property rights with respect to the real estate as a result of the transaction. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B's lease is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a U.S. business, purchases covered real estate that is entirely located in close proximity to a military installation identified in part 2 of appendix A to this part. Corporation B, a foreign person, leases from Corporation A a part of that real estate. Corporation B is entitled to at least three property rights with respect to the real estate as a result of the transaction. Assuming no other relevant facts, Corporation B's lease is a covered real estate transaction.
(6) Example 6. Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases covered real estate and is afforded three property rights with respect to the covered real estate. In a subsequent transaction, Corporation B, another foreign person, leases the covered real estate from Corporation A, and is also afforded three property rights. Assuming no other relevant facts, each transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, purchases covered real estate and is afforded three property rights with respect to the covered real estate. In a subsequent transaction, Corporation B, another foreign person, leases the covered real estate from Corporation A, and is also afforded three property rights. Assuming no other relevant facts, each transaction is a covered real estate transaction.
(7) Example 7. Corporation A, a foreign person, leases from Person B covered real estate, and is afforded two property rights. Person B subsequently provides Corporation A an additional property right in connection with the lease. Assuming no other relevant facts, the lease is a covered real estate transaction because the subsequent change in rights results in the foreign person having at least three property rights.
Example 7.
Corporation A, a foreign person, leases from Person B covered real estate, and is afforded two property rights. Person B subsequently provides Corporation A an additional property right in connection with the lease. Assuming no other relevant facts, the lease is a covered real estate transaction because the subsequent change in rights results in the foreign person having at least three property rights.

§ 802.302   Transactions that are not covered real estate transactions.

Transactions that are not covered real estate transactions include:
(a) A transaction that meets the definition of excepted real estate transaction in § 802.216.
(b) A purchase or lease by, or concession to, a foreign person of covered real estate, or a subsequent change in rights, that does not afford or result in the foreign person having at least three of the property rights with respect to the covered real estate.
(c) An acquisition of securities by a person acting as a securities underwriter, in the ordinary course of business and in the process of underwriting.
(d) An acquisition pursuant to a condition in a contract of insurance relating to fidelity, surety, or casualty obligations if the contract was made by an insurer in the ordinary course of business.

§ 802.303   Lending transactions.

(a) The extension of a mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement by a foreign person to another person for the purpose of the purchase, lease, or concession of covered real estate, regardless of whether accompanied by the creation in favor of the foreign person of a secured interest in the covered real estate, shall not, by itself, constitute a covered real estate transaction.
(1) The Committee will accept notices or declarations concerning a mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement that does not, by itself, constitute a covered real estate transaction only at the time that, because of imminent or actual default or other condition, there is a significant possibility that a purchase or lease by, concession to, or a change in rights involving a foreign person may result from the default or other condition and that would constitute a covered real estate transaction.
(2) Where the Committee accepts a notice or declaration concerning a mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and a party to the transaction is a foreign person that makes mortgages or loans in the ordinary course of business, the Committee will take into account whether the foreign person has made any arrangements to transfer the ownership and property rights over the covered real estate to U.S. nationals or excepted real estate investors for purposes of determining whether such mortgage, loan, or financing arrangement constitutes a covered real estate transaction.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement through which a foreign person acquires property rights over covered real estate may constitute a covered real estate transaction to the extent that the arrangement would constitute a purchase, lease, or concession under this part.
(c) Example: Corporation A, a foreign bank, makes a secured loan to Corporation B in order for Corporation B to purchase a building that constitutes covered real estate. The collateral for the loan is the building that Corporation B is purchasing, and upon default, Corporation A would obtain an ownership interest and be afforded at least three property rights with respect to the building. Corporation B defaults on the loan. Assuming no other relevant facts, the Committee would accept a notice or declaration of the imminent default or default transferring ownership of the building to Corporation A, which would constitute a covered real estate transaction.

§ 802.304   Timing rule for a contingent equity interest.

(a) For purposes of determining whether to include the rights that a holder of a contingent equity interest will acquire upon conversion of, or exercise of a right provided by, that interest in the Committee's analysis of whether a notified transaction is a covered real estate transaction, the Committee will consider factors that include:
(1) The imminence of conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions;
(2) Whether conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions depends on factors within the control of the acquiring party; and
(3) Whether the amount of interest and the rights that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition.
(b) When the Committee, applying paragraph (a) of this section, determines that the rights that the holder will acquire upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent condition will not be included in the Committee's analysis of whether a notified or submitted transaction is a covered real estate transaction, the Committee will disregard the contingent equity interest for purposes of that transaction except to the extent that they convey immediate rights to the holder with respect to the entity that issued the interest.

Subpart D—Declarations


§ 802.401   Procedures for declarations.

(a) A party or parties may submit a voluntary declaration of a transaction by submitting electronically the information set out in § 802.402, including the certifications required thereunder, to the Staff Chairperson in accordance with the submission instructions on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(b) No communications other than those described in paragraph (a) of this section shall constitute the submission of a declaration for purposes of section 721.
(c) Information and other documentary material submitted to the Committee under this section shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 802.802.
(d) Persons filing a declaration shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts, or circumstances regarding the transaction, and any material change in information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under § 802.402. Unless the Committee rejects the declaration on the basis of such material changes in accordance with § 802.404(a)(2)(i), such changes shall become part of the declaration filed by such persons under this section, and the certification required under § 802.403(d) shall apply to such changes.
(e) Parties to a transaction that have filed with the Committee a written notice regarding a transaction under § 802.501 or § 800.501 or a declaration under § 800.403 may not submit to the Committee a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction without the written approval of the Staff Chairperson.

§ 802.402   Contents of declarations.

(a) The party or parties submitting a voluntary declaration of a transaction under § 802.401 shall provide the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to the party or parties filing the voluntary declaration and to the transaction. (See also paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.)
(b) Other than as provided under paragraph (f) of this section, if fewer than all the parties to a transaction submit a declaration, the Committee may, at its discretion, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice of the transaction under § 802.501, if the Staff Chairperson determines that the information provided by the submitting party or parties in the declaration is insufficient for the Committee to assess the transaction.
(c) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, a declaration submitted under § 802.401 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The name of the foreign person(s) and the current holder(s) of interest in the real estate that are parties to, or, in applicable cases, the subject of the transaction, as well as the name, telephone number, and email address of the primary point of contact for each party.
(2) The following information regarding the transaction in question:
(i) A brief description of the rationale for and nature of the transaction, including its structure (e.g., purchase, lease, or concession) and term, whether the foreign person is acquiring a collection of assets or interest in an entity, and whether it is part of a larger project undertaken by the foreign person;
e.g.,
purchase, lease, or concession) and term, whether the foreign person is acquiring a collection of assets or interest in an entity, and whether it is part of a larger project undertaken by the foreign person;
(ii) The total transaction value in U.S. dollars;
(iii) The status of the transaction, including the actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(iv) All sources of financing for the transaction and any real estate agents/brokers involved; and
(v) A copy of the definitive documentation of the transaction, such as a purchase, lease, or concession agreement, or if none exists, the document establishing the material terms of the transaction, which in the context of a transaction involving a covered port, must be signed and dated.
(3) The following information regarding the real estate that is the subject of the transaction:
(i) The location, by address and geographic coordinates in decimal degrees to the fourth digit, of the real estate that is the subject of the transaction;
(ii) The name(s) of and distance(s) to any covered port, military installation, or any other facility or property of the U.S. Government as identified in this part and that is relevant to CFIUS jurisdiction given the location of the real estate.
(iii) A description of the real estate that is the subject of the transaction including the approximate size (in acres, feet, or other appropriate measurement); nature of the real estate (e.g., zoning type and the major topographical or other features of the real estate); and current use of the real estate including any physical security measures.
e.g.,
zoning type and the major topographical or other features of the real estate); and current use of the real estate including any physical security measures.
(iv) A description of the plans of the foreign person with respect to the real estate and structures that are or will be on the real estate; and
(v) A description of any leases, licenses, permits, easements, encumbrances, or other grants or approvals associated with the real estate, including whether any involve the U.S. Government.
(4) A statement as to whether the foreign person will have any of the following rights or abilities with respect to the real estate as a result of the transaction:
(i) To physically access the real estate;
(ii) To exclude others from physically accessing the real estate;
(iii) To improve or develop the real estate; or
(iv) To attach fixed or immovable structures or objects to the real estate.
(5) The name of the ultimate parent of the foreign person.
(6) The address and principal place of business of the foreign person and its ultimate parent.
(7) A complete pre-transaction organizational chart (and post-transaction, if different) including, information that identifies the name, principal place of business, place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent.
(8) Information regarding all foreign government ownership in the foreign person's ownership structure, including nationality and percentage of ownership, as well as any rights that a foreign government holds, directly or indirectly, with respect to the foreign person.
(9) With respect to the foreign person that is party to the transaction and any of its parents, as applicable, a brief summary of their respective business activities.
(10) A statement as to whether a party to the transaction is stipulating that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction and a description of the basis for the stipulation.
(11) A statement as to whether any party to the transaction has been party to another transaction previously notified or submitted to the Committee, and the case number assigned by the Committee regarding such transaction(s).
(12) A statement (including relevant jurisdiction and criminal case law number or legal citation) as to whether the holder of the real estate, the foreign person, any parent of the foreign person, or any person of which the foreign person is a parent, has been convicted in the last 10 years of a crime in any jurisdiction.
(d) Each party submitting a declaration shall provide a certification of the information contained in the declaration consistent with § 802.202. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(e) A party that offers a stipulation under paragraph (c)(10) of this section acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered real estate transaction.
(f) In the case of a transaction where a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction and is not submitting a declaration, the other party or parties to the transaction shall provide the information set out in this section with respect to itself and, to the extent known or reasonably available to it, with respect to the U.S. public entity.

§ 802.403   Beginning of 30-day assessment period.

(a) Upon receipt of a declaration submitted under § 802.401, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect the declaration and shall promptly notify in writing all parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration that:
(1) The Staff Chairperson has accepted the declaration and circulated the declaration to the Committee, and the date on which the assessment described in paragraph (b) of this section begins; or
(2) The Staff Chairperson has determined not to accept the declaration and circulate the declaration to the Committee because the declaration is incomplete, and an explanation of the material respects in which the declaration is incomplete.
(b) A 30-day period for assessment of a transaction that is the subject of a declaration shall commence on the date on which the declaration is received by the Committee from the Staff Chairperson. Such period shall end no later than the thirtieth day after it has commenced, or if the thirtieth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the thirtieth day.
(c) During the 30-day assessment period, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a covered real estate transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction.
(d) If the Committee notifies the parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration under § 802.401 that the Committee intends to conclude all action under section 721 with respect to that transaction, each party that has submitted additional information subsequent to the original declaration shall file a certification as described in § 802.202. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(e) If a party fails to provide the certification required under paragraph (d) of this section, the Committee may, at its discretion, take any of the actions under § 802.405.

§ 802.404   Rejection, disposition, or withdrawal of declarations.

(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any declaration that does not comply with § 802.402 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any declaration at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the declaration has been submitted and before the Committee has taken one of the actions specified in § 802.405:
(i) There is a material change in the covered real estate transaction as to which a declaration has been submitted; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the declaration by the party (or parties); or
(3) Reject any declaration at any time after the declaration has been submitted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party (or parties) that submitted the declaration does not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within two business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the party (or parties) so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing.
(b) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the party (or parties) that submitted a declaration when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a declaration is not a covered real estate transaction.
(c) Parties to a transaction that have submitted a declaration under § 802.401 may request in writing, at any time prior to the Committee taking action under § 802.405, that such declaration be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made and state whether the transaction that is the subject of the declaration is being fully and permanently abandoned. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(d) The Committee may not request or recommend that a declaration be withdrawn and refiled, except to permit parties to a covered real estate transaction to correct material errors or omissions, or describe material changes to the transaction, in the declaration submitted with respect to that covered real estate transaction.
(e) A party (or parties) may not submit more than one declaration for the same or a substantially similar transaction without approval from the Staff Chairperson.
Note 1 to § 802.404:
See § 802.401(e) regarding the prohibition on submitting a declaration regarding the same transaction or a substantially similar transaction for which a written notice has been filed, or a declaration submitted under part 800 of this chapter, without the approval of the Staff Chairperson.

§ 802.405   Committee actions.

(a) Upon receiving a declaration submitted under § 802.401 with respect to a covered real estate transaction, the Committee may, at the discretion of the Committee:
(1) If the Committee has reason to believe that the transaction may raise national security considerations, request that the parties to the transaction file a written notice under subpart E;
(2) Inform the parties to the transaction that the Committee is not able to conclude action under section 721 with respect to the transaction on the basis of the declaration and that the parties may file a written notice under subpart E to seek written notification from the Committee that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction;
(3) Initiate a unilateral review of the transaction under § 802.501(c); or
(4) Notify the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the transaction.
(b) The Committee shall take action under paragraph (a) of this section within the time period set forth in § 802.403(b).

Subpart E—Notices


§ 802.501   Procedures for notices.

(a) Except as otherwise prohibited under paragraph (j) of this section, a party or parties to a proposed or completed transaction may file a voluntary notice of the transaction with the Committee. Voluntary notice to the Committee is filed by sending an electronic copy of the notice that includes, in English, the information set out in § 802.502, including the certification required under paragraph (h) of that section, and paying the fee required under subpart K of this part. For electronic submission instructions, see the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(b)(1) If the Committee determines that a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted under this part, and with respect to which the Committee has not informed the parties in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721, may be a covered real estate transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to the transaction or other persons to provide to the Committee information necessary to determine whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction or whether the transaction may raise national security considerations.
(2) If the Committee determines that a transaction referred to under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is a covered real estate transaction and may raise national security considerations, the Staff Chairperson, acting on the recommendation of the Committee, may request the parties to file a notice of such covered real estate transaction under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) With respect to any covered real estate transaction:
(1) Any member of the Committee, or his or her designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may, subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding a transaction if:
(i) That member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction and may raise national security considerations and:
(A) The Committee has not informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction; and
(B) The President has not announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction; or
(ii) The transaction is a covered real estate transaction and:
(A) The Committee has informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction or determined that such transaction is not a covered real estate transaction, or the President has announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction; and
(B) Either:
(1) A party to such transaction submitted false or misleading material information to the Committee in connection with the Committee's consideration of such transaction or omitted material information, including material documents, from information submitted to the Committee; or
1
) A party to such transaction submitted false or misleading material information to the Committee in connection with the Committee's consideration of such transaction or omitted material information, including material documents, from information submitted to the Committee; or
(2) A party to such transaction breaches a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A), such breach is certified to the Committee by the lead department or agency monitoring and enforcing such agreement or condition as a material breach, and the Committee determines that there are no other adequate and appropriate remedies or enforcement tools available to address such breach.
2
) A party to such transaction breaches a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A), such breach is certified to the Committee by the lead department or agency monitoring and enforcing such agreement or condition as a material breach, and the Committee determines that there are no other adequate and appropriate remedies or enforcement tools available to address such breach.
(2)(i) That is a transaction where a foreign person is not an excepted real estate investor due to the application of § 802.215(d), any member of the Committee, or his or her designee at or above the Under Secretary or equivalent level, may file an agency notice to the Committee through the Staff Chairperson regarding such transaction if:
(A) That member has reason to believe that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction and may raise national security considerations;
(B) The Committee has not informed the parties to such transaction in writing that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to such transaction; and
(C) The President has not announced a decision not to exercise the President's authority under section 721(d) with respect to such transaction.
(ii) No notice filed under this paragraph (c)(2) shall be made with respect to a transaction more than one year after the completion date of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee determines, in consultation with other members of the Committee, that because the foreign person no longer meets all the criteria set forth in § 802.215(a)(1) or (2), (a)(3)(i) through (iii), or (c)(1)(i) through (iii), the transaction may threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and in no event shall an agency notice under this paragraph be made with respect to such a transaction more than three years after the completion date of the transaction.
(d) Notices filed under paragraph (c) of this section are deemed accepted upon their receipt by the Staff Chairperson. No agency notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be made with respect to a real estate transaction more than three years after the completion date of the transaction, unless the Chairperson of the Committee, in consultation with other members of the Committee, files such an agency notice.
(e) No communications other than those described in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section shall constitute the filing or submitting of a notice for purposes of section 721.
(f) Upon receipt of the electronic copy of a notice filed under paragraph (a) of this section, including the certification required by § 802.502(h), and payment of the fee required under subpart K of this part, the Staff Chairperson shall promptly inspect such notice for completeness.
(g) Parties to a transaction are encouraged to consult with the Committee in advance of filing a notice and, in appropriate cases, to file with the Committee a draft notice or other appropriate documents to aid the Committee's understanding of the transaction and to provide an opportunity for the Committee to request additional information to be included in the notice. Any such pre-notice consultation should take place, or any draft notice should be provided, at least five business days before the filing of a voluntary notice. All information and documentary material made available to the Committee under this paragraph shall be considered to have been filed with the President or the President's designee for purposes of section 721(c) and § 802.802.
(h) Information and other documentary material provided by any party to the Committee after the filing of a voluntary notice under this section shall be part of the notice, and shall be subject to the final certification required under § 802.502(l).
(i) For any voluntarily submitted draft or formal written notice that includes a stipulation under section § 802.502(j) that a transaction is a covered real estate transaction, the Committee shall provide comments on the draft or formal written notice or accept the formal written notice of a covered real estate transaction not later than the date that is 10 business days after the date of submission of the draft or formal written notice.
(j) No party to a transaction may file a notice under paragraph (a) of this section if the transaction has been the subject of a declaration submitted under subpart D and the Committee has not yet taken any action with respect to the transaction under § 802.405.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23742, Apr. 29, 2020; 89 FR 93185, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 802.502   Contents of voluntary notices.

(a) If a party or the parties to a transaction file a voluntary notice, they shall provide in detail the information set out in this section, which must be accurate and complete with respect to the party or parties filing the voluntary notice and to the transaction. (See also paragraph (k) of this section regarding U.S. public entities and paragraph (h) of this section and § 802.202 regarding certification requirements.)
(b) A voluntary notice filed under § 802.501 shall describe or provide, as applicable:
(1) The following information regarding the transaction in question:
(i) A summary setting forth the essentials of the transaction, including a statement of the purpose of the transaction, its scope, both within and outside of the United States, as applicable, whether the foreign person is acquiring a collection of assets or interest in an entity, and the extent to which it is part of a larger project undertaken by the foreign person;
(ii) The nature of the transaction, for example, whether the transaction involves a purchase, lease, or concession of real estate and the term, if any;
(iii) The name, United States address (if any), website address (if any), nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities), and address of the principal place of business of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(iv) The name, address, website address (if any), principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization of the current holder of interest in the real estate that is the subject of the transaction;
(v) In the case that a U.S. public entity is a party to the covered real estate transaction, the name, telephone number, and email address of the primary point of contact for the U.S. public entity;
(vi) The name, address, and nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities) of:
(A) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(B) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(C) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent;
(vii) The name, address, website address (if any), and nationality (for individuals) or place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities) of the foreign person or foreign persons that will be afforded property rights with respect to the real estate that is the subject of the covered real estate transaction;
(viii) The actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(ix)(A) The value of the transaction in U.S. dollars, as determined under § 802.1103, and the parties' assessment of the applicable fee due under § 802.1101, including an explanation of the methodology used to determine such valuation and applicable fee; and
(B) If different than the value of the transaction provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ix)(A) of this section, a good faith approximation of the fair market value of the interest acquired in the covered real estate in U.S. dollars, as of the date of the notice.
(x) The name of any and all financial institutions and real estate agents/brokers involved in the transaction, including as advisors, underwriters, or sources of financing for the transaction;
(xi) A copy of the definitive documentation of the transaction, such as a purchase, lease, or concession agreement, or if none exists, the document establishing the material terms of the transaction, which in the context of a transaction involving a covered port, must be signed and dated;
(xii) Whether the foreign person will have any of the following rights or abilities with respect to the real estate as a result of the transaction and any additional information regarding such property rights:
(A) To physically access the real estate;
(B) To exclude others from physically accessing the real estate;
(C) To improve or develop the real estate; or
(D) To attach fixed or immovable structures or objects to the real estate.
(2) A detailed description of real estate that is the subject of the transaction, including as applicable:
(i) The location, by address and geographic coordinates in decimal degrees to the 4th digit, of the real estate that is the subject of the covered real estate transaction;
(ii) A description of the real estate that is the subject of the covered real estate transaction including the approximate size (in acres, feet, or other appropriate measurement); nature of the real estate (e.g., zoning type and the major topographical or other features of the real estate); current use of the real estate; and structures that are or will be on the real estate;
e.g.,
zoning type and the major topographical or other features of the real estate); current use of the real estate; and structures that are or will be on the real estate;
(iii) A description of any leases, licenses, permits, easements, encumbrances, or other grants or approvals associated with the real estate, including whether any involve the U.S. Government, as well as any feasibility studies conducted with respect to the real estate; and
(iv) The name(s) of and distance(s) to any relevant covered port, military installation, or any other facility or property of the U.S. Government as identified in this part, and that is relevant to CFIUS jurisdiction given the location of the real estate that is the subject of the transaction.
(3) With respect to the foreign person engaged in the transaction and its parents:
(i) A description of the business or businesses of the foreign person and its ultimate parent, and the CAGE codes, NAICS codes, and DUNS numbers, if any, for such businesses;
(ii) The plans of the foreign person for the real estate with respect to:
(A) Use and development of the real estate;
(B) Changing the nature of the real estate including building new structures or removing or altering current structures, including the anticipated dimensions and any physical security measures employed at the real estate; and
(C) Assigning, modifying, or terminating any leases, licenses, permits, easements, encumbrances, or other grants or approvals referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section;
(iii) Whether the foreign person is controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government, including as an agent or representative, or in some similar capacity, and if so, the identity of the foreign government;
(iv) Whether a foreign government or a person controlled by or acting on behalf of a foreign government:
(A) Has or controls property rights or has or controls ownership interests, including contingent equity interest, of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction or any parent of the foreign person, and if so, the nature and amount of any such interests, and with regard to contingent equity interest, the terms and timing of conversion;
(B) Has the right or power to appoint any of the principal officers or the members of the board of directors (including other persons who perform the duties usually associated with such titles) of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction or any parent of that foreign person;
(C) Holds any other contingent interest (for example, such as might arise from a lending transaction) in the foreign person that is a party to the transaction and, if so, the rights that are covered by this contingent interest, and the manner in which they would be enforced; or
(D) Has any other affirmative or negative rights or powers with respect to control over the foreign person engaged in the transaction, and if there are any such rights or powers, their source (for example, a “golden share,” shareholders agreement, contract, statute, or regulation) and the mechanics of their operation;
(v) Any formal or informal arrangements among foreign persons that hold an ownership interest in any foreign person that is a party to the transaction or between such foreign person and other foreign persons to act in concert on particular matters affecting the real estate that is the subject of the transaction, and provide a copy of any documents that establish those rights or describe those arrangements;
(vi) For each member of the board of directors or equivalent governing body (including external directors and other persons who perform duties usually associated with such titles) and officers (including president, senior vice president, executive vice president, and other persons who perform duties normally associated with such titles) of the foreign person engaged in the transaction and its immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents, and for any individual having an ownership interest of five percent or more in the foreign person engaged in the transaction and in the foreign person's ultimate parent, the following information:
(A) A curriculum vitae or similar professional synopsis, provided as part of the main notice, and
(B) The following “personal identifier information,” which, for privacy reasons, and to ensure limited distribution, shall be set forth in a separate document, not in the main notice:
(1) Full name (last, first, middle name);
1
) Full name (last, first, middle name);
(2) All other names and aliases used;
2
) All other names and aliases used;
(3) Business address;
3
) Business address;
(4) Country and city of residence;
4
) Country and city of residence;
(5) Date of birth, in the format MM/DD/YYYY;
5
) Date of birth, in the format MM/DD/YYYY;
(6) Place of birth;
6
) Place of birth;
(7) U.S. Social Security number (where applicable);
7
) U.S. Social Security number (where applicable);
(8) National identity number, including nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date (where applicable);
8
) National identity number, including nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date (where applicable);
(9) U.S. or foreign passport number (if more than one, all must be fully disclosed), nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date and, if a U.S. visa holder, the visa type and number, date and place of issuance, and expiration date; and
9
) U.S. or foreign passport number (if more than one, all must be fully disclosed), nationality, date and place of issuance, and expiration date and, if a U.S. visa holder, the visa type and number, date and place of issuance, and expiration date; and
(10) Dates and nature of foreign government and foreign military service (where applicable), other than military service at a rank below the top two non-commissioned ranks of the relevant foreign country; and
10
) Dates and nature of foreign government and foreign military service (where applicable), other than military service at a rank below the top two non-commissioned ranks of the relevant foreign country; and
(vii) The following “business identifier information” for the immediate, intermediate, and ultimate parents of the foreign person engaged in the transaction, including their main offices and branches:
(A) Business name, including all names under which the business is known to be or has been doing business;
(B) Business address;
(C) Business phone number, website address, and email address; and
(D) Employer identification number or other domestic tax or corporate identification number.
(c) The voluntary notice shall list any filings with, or reports to, agencies of the U.S. Government that have been or will be made with respect to the transaction prior to its completion, indicating the agencies concerned, the nature of the filing or report, the date on which it was filed or the estimated date by which it will be filed, and a relevant contact point and/or telephone number within the agency, if known.
(d) In the case of the establishment of a joint venture in which one or more of the parties is contributing covered real estate, information for the voluntary notice shall be prepared on the assumption that the foreign person that is party to the joint venture has made a purchase or lease, or been granted a concession to, the covered real estate that the other party to the joint venture is contributing or transferring to the joint venture. The voluntary notice shall describe the name and address of the joint venture and the entities that established, or are establishing, the joint venture.
(e) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall, during the time that the matter is pending before the Committee or the President, promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes in plans, facts and circumstances addressed in the notice, and information provided or required to be provided to the Committee under this section, and shall file amendments to the notice to reflect such material changes. Such amendments shall become part of the notice filed by such persons under § 802.501, and the certifications required under paragraphs (h) and (l) of this section shall apply to such amendments.
(f) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include:
(1) A complete pre-transaction organizational chart (and post-transaction, if different) including, information that identifies the name, principal place of business, and place of incorporation or other legal organization (for entities); nationality (for individuals); and ownership percentage (expressed in terms of both voting and economic interest, if different) for each of the following:
(i) The immediate parent, the ultimate parent, and each intermediate parent, if any, of each foreign person that is a party to the transaction;
(ii) Where the ultimate parent is a private company, the ultimate owner(s) of such parent; and
(iii) Where the ultimate parent is a public company, any shareholder with an interest of greater than five percent in such parent.
(2) The opinion of the person regarding whether:
(i) It is a foreign person;
(ii) It is controlled by a foreign government; and
(iii) The transaction has resulted or could result in a foreign person being afforded property rights with respect to covered real estate, and the reasons for its view, focusing in particular on any powers (for example, by virtue of an agreement, statute, or regulation) that the foreign person will have with regard to the covered real estate, and how those powers can or will be exercised.
(g) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include information as to whether:
(1) Any party to the transaction is, or has been, a party to a mitigation agreement entered into or condition imposed under section 721, and if so, shall specify the date and purpose of such agreement or condition and the U.S. Government signatories; and
(2) Any party to the transaction (including such party's parents, subsidiaries, or entities under common control with the party) has been a party to a transaction previously notified to the Committee.
(h) Each party filing a voluntary notice shall provide a certification of the notice consistent with § 802.202. A sample certification may be found on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
(i) Parties filing a voluntary notice shall include with the notice a list identifying each document provided as part of the notice, including all documents provided as attachments or exhibits to the narrative response.
(j) A party filing a voluntary notice may stipulate that the transaction is a covered real estate transaction. A stipulation offered by any party under this section must be accompanied by a detailed description of the basis for the stipulation. A party that offers such a stipulation acknowledges that the Committee and the President are entitled to rely on such stipulation in determining whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction for the purposes of section 721 and all authorities thereunder, and waives the right to challenge any such determination. Neither the Committee nor the President is bound by any such stipulation, nor does any such stipulation limit the ability of the Committee or the President to act on any authority provided under section 721 with respect to any covered real estate transaction.
(k) In the case of a transaction where a U.S. public entity is a party to the transaction, the notifying party or parties may be the non-U.S. public entity. Each notifying party shall provide the information set out in this section with respect to itself and, to the extent known or reasonably available to it, with respect to the U.S. public entity.
(l) At the conclusion of a review or investigation, each party that has filed additional information subsequent to the original notice shall file a final certification. (See § 802.202.) A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23742, Apr. 29, 2020]]

§ 802.503   Beginning of 45-day review period.

(a) The Staff Chairperson shall accept a voluntary notice the next business day after the Staff Chairperson has:
(1) Determined that the notice complies with § 802.502;
(2) Confirmed that the applicable fee required under subpart K of this part has been received by the Department of the Treasury, or waived; and
(3) Disseminated the notice to all members of the Committee.
(b) A 45-day period for review of a transaction shall commence on the date on which the voluntary notice has been accepted, agency notice has been received by the Staff Chairperson, or the Chairperson of the Committee has requested a notice under § 802.501(b). Such review shall end no later than the forty-fifth day after it has commenced, or if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly advise in writing all parties to a transaction that have filed a voluntary notice of:
(1) The acceptance of the notice;
(2) The date on which the review begins; and
(3) The designation of any lead agency or agencies.
(d) Within two business days after receipt of an agency notice by the Staff Chairperson, the Staff Chairperson shall send written advice of such notice to the parties to the transaction that is subject to the notice. Such written advice shall identify the date on which the review began.
(e) The Staff Chairperson shall promptly circulate to all Committee members any draft pre-filing notice, any agency notice, any complete notice, and any subsequent information filed by the parties.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23742, Apr. 29, 2020]]

§ 802.504   Deferral, rejection, or disposition of certain voluntary notices.

(a) The Committee, acting through the Staff Chairperson, may:
(1) Reject any voluntary notice that does not comply with § 802.501 or § 802.502 and so inform the parties promptly in writing;
(2) Reject any voluntary notice at any time, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if, after the notice has been submitted and before action by the Committee or the President has been concluded:
(i) There is a material change in the transaction as to which notification has been made; or
(ii) Information comes to light that contradicts material information provided in the notice by the parties;
(3) Reject any voluntary notice at any time upon determining that the filing fee paid by the parties was insufficient under subpart K of this part, subject to § 802.1108;
(4) Reject any voluntary notice at any time after the notice has been accepted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the party or parties that have submitted the voluntary notice do not provide follow-up information requested by the Staff Chairperson within three business days of the request, or within a longer time frame if the parties so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing;
(5) Reject any voluntary notice before the conclusion of a review or investigation, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if one of the parties submitting the voluntary notice has not submitted the final certification required by § 802.502(l); or
(6) Reject any voluntary notice at any time after the notice has been accepted, and so inform the parties promptly in writing, if the Committee has proposed risk mitigation terms, including revisions to such terms, and if the Staff Chairperson has imposed a time frame for responding to such terms as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, to the party or parties that submitted the notice and the party or parties have failed to substantively respond to such terms within the time frame specified.
(b) Notwithstanding the authority of the Staff Chairperson under paragraph (a) of this section to reject an incomplete notice, the Staff Chairperson may defer acceptance of the notice, and the beginning of the review period specified by § 802.503, to obtain any information required under this section that has not been submitted by the notifying party or parties or other parties to the transaction. Where necessary to obtain such information, the Staff Chairperson may inform any non-notifying party or parties that notice has been filed with respect to a transaction involving the party, and request that certain information required under this section, as specified by the Staff Chairperson, be provided to the Committee within seven days after receipt of the Staff Chairperson's request.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall notify the parties when the Committee has found that the transaction that is the subject of a voluntary notice is not a covered real estate transaction.
(d) The Staff Chairperson may impose a time frame of no fewer than three business days for the party or parties to provide a substantive response to proposed risk mitigation terms, including revisions to such terms. The time frame may be extended if the parties so request in writing and the Staff Chairperson grants that request in writing. In determining whether to impose such a time frame, the Staff Chairperson may consider:
(1) The statutory deadline for completing an investigation under section 721(b)(2)(C)(i);
(2) The risk to the national security of the United States arising from the transaction;
(3) The party's or parties' responsiveness to the Committee;
(4) The nature of the transaction;
(5) The appropriateness of suspending, or imposing conditions on, the transaction under section 721(l); and
l
); and
(6) Other such factors the Staff Chairperson may determine to be appropriate in connection with a specific transaction.
(e) Example: The Staff Chairperson receives a joint notice from Corporation A, a foreign person, and Corporation X, a company that is selling covered real estate. The joint notice does not contain any information described under § 802.502 concerning the nature of the real estate. The Staff Chairperson may reject the notice or defer the start of the review period until the parties have supplied the omitted information.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 23742, Apr. 29, 2020; 89 FR 93186, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 802.505   Determination of whether to undertake an investigation.

(a) After a review of a notified transaction under § 802.503, the Committee shall undertake an investigation of any transaction that it has determined to be a covered real estate transaction if:
(1) A member of the Committee (other than a member designated as ex officio under section 721(k)) advises the Staff Chairperson that the member believes that the transaction threatens to impair the national security of the United States and that the threat has not been mitigated; or
(2) The lead agency recommends, and the Committee concurs, that an investigation be undertaken.
(b) The Committee shall also undertake, after a review of a covered real estate transaction under § 802.503, an investigation to determine the effects on national security of any covered real estate transaction that would result in control by a foreign person of critical infrastructure, as defined in § 800.214 of this title, of or within the United States, if the Committee determines that the transaction could impair the national security and such impairment has not been mitigated.
(c) The Committee shall undertake an investigation as described in paragraph (b) of this section unless the Chairperson of the Committee (or the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury) and the head of any lead agency (or his or her delegee at the deputy level or equivalent) designated by the Chairperson determine on the basis of the review that the covered real estate transaction will not impair the national security of the United States.

§ 802.506   Determination not to undertake an investigation.

If the Committee determines, during the review period described in § 802.503, not to undertake an investigation of a notified covered real estate transaction, action under section 721 shall be concluded. An official at the Department of the Treasury shall promptly inform the parties to a covered real estate transaction in writing of a determination of the Committee not to undertake an investigation and to conclude action under section 721.

§ 802.507   Commencement of investigation.

(a) If it is determined that an investigation should be undertaken, such investigation shall commence no later than the end of the review period described in § 802.503.
(b) An official of the Department of the Treasury shall promptly inform the parties to a covered real estate transaction in writing of the commencement of an investigation.

§ 802.508   Completion or termination of investigation and report to the President.

(a) Subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the Committee shall complete an investigation no later than the forty-fifth day after the date the investigation commences, or, if the forty-fifth day is not a business day, no later than the next business day after the forty-fifth day.
(b) Upon completion or termination of any investigation, the Committee shall send a report to the President requesting the President's decision if:
(1) The Committee recommends that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction;
(2) The Committee is unable to reach a decision on whether to recommend that the President suspend or prohibit the transaction; or
(3) The Committee requests that the President make a determination with regard to the transaction.
(c) In circumstances when the Committee sends a report to the President requesting the President's decision with respect to a covered real estate transaction, such report shall include information relevant to sections 721(d)(4)(A) and (B), and shall present the Committee's recommendation. If the Committee is unable to reach a decision to present a single recommendation to the President, the Chairperson of the Committee shall submit a report of the Committee to the President setting forth the differing views and presenting the issues for decision.
(d) Upon completion or termination of an investigation, if the Committee determines to conclude all deliberative action under section 721 with regard to a notified covered real estate transaction without sending a report to the President, action under section 721 shall be concluded. An official at the Department of the Treasury shall promptly advise the parties to such a transaction in writing of a determination to conclude action.
(e) In extraordinary circumstances, the Chairperson may, upon a written request signed by the head of a lead agency, extend an investigation for one 15-day period. A request to extend an investigation must describe, with particularity, the extraordinary circumstances that warrant the Chairperson extending the investigation. The authority of the head of a lead agency to request the extension of an investigation may not be delegated to any person other than the deputy head (or equivalent thereof) of the lead agency. If the Chairperson extends an investigation under this paragraph with respect to a covered real estate transaction, the Committee shall promptly notify the parties to the transaction of the extension.
(f) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the term extraordinary circumstances means circumstances for which extending an investigation is necessary and the appropriate course of action, in the Chairperson's discretion, due to a force majeure event or to protect the national security of the United States.
extraordinary circumstances
means circumstances for which extending an investigation is necessary and the appropriate course of action, in the Chairperson's discretion, due to a force majeure event or to protect the national security of the United States.

§ 802.509   Withdrawal of notices.

(a) A party (or parties) to a transaction that has filed notice under § 802.501(a) may request in writing, at any time prior to conclusion of all action under section 721, that such notice be withdrawn. Such request shall be directed to the Staff Chairperson and shall state the reasons why the request is being made. Such requests will ordinarily be granted, unless otherwise determined by the Committee. An official of the Department of the Treasury will promptly advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision.
(b) Any request to withdraw an agency notice by the agency that filed it shall be in writing and shall be effective only upon approval by the Committee. An official of the Department of the Treasury shall advise the parties to the transaction in writing of the Committee's decision to approve the withdrawal request within two business days of the Committee's decision.
(c) In any case where a request to withdraw a notice is granted under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The Staff Chairperson, in consultation with the Committee, shall establish, as appropriate:
(i) A process for tracking actions that may be taken by any party to the covered real estate transaction before a notice is refiled under § 802.501; and
(ii) Interim protections to address specific national security concerns with the covered real estate transaction identified during the review or investigation of the covered real estate transaction.
(2) The Staff Chairperson shall specify a time frame, as appropriate, for the parties to resubmit a notice and shall advise the parties of that time frame in writing.
(d) A notice of a transaction that is submitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be deemed a new notice for purposes of the regulations in this part, including § 802.701.

Subpart F—Committee Procedures


§ 802.601   General.

(a) In any assessment, review, or investigation of a covered real estate transaction, the Committee should consider the factors specified in section 721(f), as applicable, and, as appropriate, require the parties to provide to the Committee the information necessary to consider such factors. The Committee's assessment, review, or investigation (if necessary) shall examine, as appropriate, whether:
(1) The transaction is a covered real estate transaction;
(2) There is credible evidence to support a belief that any foreign person party to a covered real estate transaction might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States; and
(3) Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, provide adequate and appropriate authority to protect the national security of the United States.
(b) During an assessment, review, or investigation, the Staff Chairperson may invite the parties to a notified transaction to attend a meeting with the Committee staff to discuss and clarify issues pertaining to the transaction. During an investigation, a party to the transaction under investigation may request a meeting with the Committee staff; such a request ordinarily will be granted.
(c) The Staff Chairperson shall be the point of contact for receiving material filed with the Committee, including notices and declarations.
(d) Where more than one lead agency is designated, communications on material matters between a party to the transaction and a lead agency shall include all lead agencies designated with regard to those matters.
(e) The parties' description of a transaction in a declaration or notice does not limit the ability of the Committee to, as appropriate, assess, review, or investigate, or exercise any other authorities available under section 721 with respect to any covered real estate transaction that the Committee identifies as having been notified to the Committee based upon the facts set forth in the declaration or notice, any additional information provided to the Committee subsequent to the original declaration or notice, or any other information available to the Committee.

§ 802.602   Role of the Secretary of Labor.

In response to a request from the Chairperson of the Committee, the Secretary of Labor shall identify for the Committee any risk mitigation provisions proposed to or by the Committee that would violate U.S. employment laws or require a party to violate U.S. employment laws. The Secretary of Labor shall serve no policy role on the Committee.

§ 802.603   Materiality.

The Committee generally will not consider as material minor inaccuracies, omissions, or changes relating to financial or commercial factors not having a bearing on national security.

§ 802.604   Tolling of deadlines during lapse in appropriations.

Any deadline or time limitation under subparts D or E imposed on the Committee shall be tolled during a lapse in appropriations.

Subpart G—Finality of Action


§ 802.701   Finality of actions under section 721.

All authority available to the President or the Committee under section 721(d), including divestment authority, shall remain available at the discretion of the President with respect to any covered real estate transaction. Subject to § 802.501(c)(1)(ii), such authority shall not be exercised if:
(a) The Committee, through its Staff Chairperson, has advised a party (or the parties) in writing that a particular transaction with respect to which a voluntary notice or a declaration has been filed is not a covered real estate transaction;
(b) The parties to the transaction have been advised in writing under § 802.405(a)(4), § 802.506, or § 802.508(d) that the Committee has concluded all action under section 721 with respect to the covered real estate transaction; or
(c) The President has previously announced, under section 721(d), his or her decision not to exercise his or her authority under section 721 with respect to the covered real estate transaction.

Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information


§ 802.801   Obligation of parties or other persons to provide information.

(a) This paragraph (a) sets forth requirements for parties to a transaction or other persons to provide information to the Staff Chairperson or requesting lead agency in the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) Parties to a transaction that is notified or declared under subpart D or E of this part shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to conduct a full assessment, review, and/or investigation of the transaction.
(2) For a transaction for which no voluntary notice or declaration has been submitted and for which the Staff Chairperson has requested information as provided for in § 802.501(b), parties to the transaction or other persons shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson that will enable the Committee to determine whether the transaction is a covered real estate transaction or whether the transaction may raise national security considerations.
(3) Independent of any obligations under an agreement, condition, or order authorized under section 721(l), parties shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson or the requesting lead agency so as to enable the Committee to assess compliance with section 721 and the regulations in this part or to monitor compliance with, enforce or modify the terms of, or decide to terminate any agreement entered into, condition imposed, or order issued.
l
), parties shall provide information to the Staff Chairperson or the requesting lead agency so as to enable the Committee to assess compliance with section 721 and the regulations in this part or to monitor compliance with, enforce or modify the terms of, or decide to terminate any agreement entered into, condition imposed, or order issued.
(4) Any person that has submitted information to the Committee shall respond to requests from the Staff Chairperson for information to enable the Committee to determine whether the party made any material misstatement or omitted material information from any such submission.
(5) Parties to a transaction that have filed information with the Committee shall promptly advise the Staff Chairperson of any material changes to such information.
(6) If deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may obtain information from parties to a transaction or other persons through subpoena or otherwise, under the Defense Production Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(a)).
(b) Documentary materials or information required or requested to be filed with the Committee under this part shall be submitted in English. Supplementary materials written in a foreign language shall be submitted in certified English translation.
(c) Any information filed with the Committee in connection with any action for which a report is required under section 721(l)(6)(B) with respect to the implementation of a mitigation agreement or condition described in section 721(l)(3)(A) shall be accompanied by a certification that complies with the requirements of section 721(n) and § 802.202. A sample certification may be found at the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93186, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 802.802   Confidentiality.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any information or documentary material submitted or filed with the Committee under this part, including information or documentary material filed under § 802.501(g), shall be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552 et seq.), and no such information or documentary material may be made public.
et seq.
), and no such information or documentary material may be made public.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not prohibit disclosure of the following:
(1) Information relevant to any administrative or judicial action or proceeding;
(2) Information to Congress or to any duly authorized committee or subcommittee of Congress;
(3) Information important to the national security analysis or actions of the Committee to any domestic governmental entity, or to any foreign governmental entity of a United States ally or partner, under the exclusive direction and authorization of the Chairperson, only to the extent necessary for national security purposes, and subject to appropriate confidentiality and classification requirements; or
(4) Information that the parties have consented to be disclosed to third parties;
(c) This section shall continue to apply with respect to information and documentary material submitted or filed with the Committee in any case where:
(1) Action has concluded under section 721 concerning a notified transaction;
(2) A request to withdraw a notice or a declaration is granted under § 802.509 or § 802.404(c), respectively, or where a notice or a declaration has been rejected under § 802.504(a) or § 802.404(a), respectively;
(3) The Committee determines that a notified or declared transaction is not a covered real estate transaction; or
(4) Such information or documentary material was filed under subpart D and the parties do not subsequently file a notice under subpart E.
(d) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the public disclosure by a party of documentary material or information that it has submitted or filed with the Committee. Any such documentary material or information so disclosed may subsequently be reflected in the public statements of the Chairperson, who is authorized to communicate with the public and the Congress on behalf of the Committee, or of the Chairperson's designee.
(e) The provisions of the Defense Production Act Reauthorization of 2003, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4555(d)) relating to fines and imprisonment shall apply with respect to the disclosure of information or documentary material filed with the Committee under these regulations.

Subpart I—Penalties and Damages


§ 802.901   Penalties and damages.

(a)(1) Any person who submits a declaration or notice with a material misstatement or omission or makes a false certification under § 802.402, § 802.403, or § 802.502 may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 per violation.
(2) Any person who, in response to a request from the Staff Chairperson or a lead agency, submits to the Committee any information pursuant to § 802.801(a)(2), (3), or (4) or (c), with a material misstatement or omission may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000,000 per violation. This paragraph (a)(2) shall apply only with respect to responses to requests that were made in writing, specified a time frame for response, and indicated the applicability of this paragraph (a).
(3) The amount of the penalty imposed for a violation as provided for in this paragraph (a) shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(b)(1) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after February 13, 2020, and before December 26, 2024, with, a material condition imposed on or after February 13, 2020, and before December 26, 2024, by, or an order issued on or after February 13, 2020, and before December 26, 2024, by, the United States under section 721(l) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed $250,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed $250,000 or the value of the transaction, whichever is greater. For clarification, under the previous sentence, whichever penalty amount is greater may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(2)(i) Any person who violates a material provision of a mitigation agreement entered into on or after December 26, 2024, with, a material condition imposed on or after December 26, 2024, by, or an order issued on or after December 26, 2024, by, the United States under section 721(l) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed the greatest of:
l
) may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty per violation not to exceed the greatest of:
(A) $5,000,000;
(B) The value of the person's interest in the covered real estate (or, as applicable, the owner of the covered real estate) at the time of the transaction;
(C) The value of the person's interest in the covered real estate (or, as applicable, the owner of the covered real estate) at the time of the violation in question or the most proximate time to the violation for which assessing such value is practicable; or
(D) The value of the transaction filed with the Committee.
(ii) For clarification, under paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, whichever penalty amount is greatest may be imposed per violation, and the amount of the penalty imposed for a violation shall be based on the nature of the violation.
(c) A mitigation agreement entered into or amended under section 721(l) may include a provision providing for liquidated or actual damages for breaches of the agreement. The mitigation agreement shall specify the amount of any liquidated damages that are a reasonable assessment of the harm to the national security that could result from a breach of the agreement. Any mitigation agreement containing a liquidated damages provision shall include a provision specifying that the Committee may consider the severity of the breach in deciding whether to seek a lesser amount than that stipulated in the agreement.
(d) A determination to impose penalties under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must be made by the Committee. Notice of the penalty, including a written explanation of the conduct to be penalized and the amount of the penalty, shall be sent to the subject person electronically and by U.S. mail or courier service. Notice shall be deemed to have been effected by the earlier of the date of electronic transmission and the date of receipt of U.S. mail or courier service. For the purposes of this section, the term subject person means the person or persons who may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty.
subject person
means the person or persons who may be liable to the United States for a civil penalty.
(e) Upon receiving notice of a penalty to be imposed under any of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the subject person may, within 20 business days of receipt of such notice, submit a petition for reconsideration to the Staff Chairperson, including a defense, justification, or explanation for the conduct to be penalized. The Committee will review the petition and issue any final penalty determination within 20 business days of receipt of the petition. The Staff Chairperson and the subject person may extend either such period through written agreement or, where there is a compelling circumstance and if it is deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Staff Chairperson may extend either period by notifying the subject person in writing of the extended time frame. The Committee and the subject person may reach an agreement on an appropriate remedy at any time before the Committee issues any final penalty determination.
(f) The penalties and damages authorized in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section may be recovered in a civil action brought by the United States in federal district court.
(g) Section 2 of the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001), shall apply to all information provided to the Committee under section 721, including by any party to a covered real estate transaction.
(h) The penalties and damages available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, available under law.
(i) The imposition of a civil monetary penalty or damages under these regulations creates a debt due to the U.S. Government. The Department of the Treasury may take action to collect the penalty or damages assessed if not paid within the time prescribed by the Committee and notified to the applicable party or parties. In addition or instead, the matter may be referred to the Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty or damages.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 93186, Nov. 26, 2024]]

§ 802.902   Effect of lack of compliance.

If, at any time after a mitigation agreement or condition is entered into or imposed under section 721(l), the Committee or a lead agency in coordination with the Staff Chairperson, as the case may be, determines that a party or parties to the agreement or condition are not in compliance with the terms of the agreement or condition, the Committee or a lead agency in coordination with the Staff Chairperson may, in addition to the authority of the Committee to impose penalties under section 721(h) and to unilaterally initiate a review of any covered real estate transaction under section 721(b)(1)(D)(iii):
(a) Negotiate a plan of action for the party or parties to remediate the lack of compliance, with failure to abide by the plan or otherwise remediate the lack of compliance serving as the basis for the Committee to find a material breach of the agreement or condition;
(b) Require that the party or parties submit a written notice or declaration under clause (i) of section 721(b)(1)(C) with respect to a covered real estate transaction initiated after the date of the determination of noncompliance and before the date that is five years after the date of the determination to the Committee to initiate a review of the transaction under section 721(b); or
(c) Seek injunctive relief.

Subpart J—Foreign National Security Investment Review Regimes


§ 802.1001   Determinations.

(a) The Committee may determine at any time that a foreign state has made significant progress toward establishing and effectively utilizing a robust process to analyze foreign investments for national security risks and to facilitate coordination with the United States on matters relating to investment security.
(b) The Committee may rescind a determination under paragraph (a) of this section if the Committee determines that such a rescission is appropriate.
(c) The Chairperson of the Committee shall publish a notice of any determination or rescission of a determination under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, respectively, in the Federal Register.
Federal Register
.

§ 802.1002   Effect of determinations.

(a) A determination under § 802.1001(a) shall take effect immediately upon publication of a notice of such determination under § 802.1001(c) and remain in effect unless rescinded under § 802.1001(b).
(b) A rescission of a determination under § 802.1001(b) shall take effect on the date specified in the notice published under § 802.1001(c).
(c) A determination under § 802.1001(a) does not apply to any transaction for which a declaration or notice has been accepted by the Staff Chairperson under § 802.403(a)(1) or § 802.503(a), respectively.
(d) A rescission of a determination under § 802.1001(b) does not apply to any transaction for which:
(1) The completion date is prior to the date upon which the rescission of a determination under paragraph (b) of this section becomes effective; or
(2) Before publication of the rescission of determination under § 802.1001(c), the parties to the transaction have executed a binding written agreement, or other binding document, establishing the material terms of the transaction that is ultimately consummated.

Subpart K—Filing Fees

[Source:85 FR 23743, Apr. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
85 FR 23743, Apr. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

§ 802.1101   Amount of fee.

Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the parties filing a formal written notice of a transaction with the Committee under § 802.501(a) on or after May 1, 2020, shall pay a filing fee as follows:
(a) Where the value of the transaction is less than $500,000: No fee;
(b) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $500,000 but less than $5,000,000: $750;
(c) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $5,000,000 but less than $50,000,000: $7,500;
(d) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $50,000,000 but less than $250,000,000: $75,000;
(e) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $250,000,000 but less than $750,000,000: $150,000;
(f) Where the value of the transaction is equal to or greater than $750,000,000: $300,000.

§ 802.1102   Timing of payment.

Subject to §§ 802.1106 through 802.1108, the Staff Chairperson shall not accept a formal written notice under § 802.503(a) until payment of any fee required under this subpart is received by the Department of the Treasury in the manner specified on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.

§ 802.1103   Valuation.

Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the value of the transaction for purposes of determining the required fee amount in this subpart shall be determined as follows:
(a) For a transaction structured as a purchase, by the total value of all consideration that has been or will be provided in the context of the transaction by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a purchaser in the transaction, including cash, assets, shares or other ownership interests, debt forgiveness, or services or other in-kind consideration.
(b) For a transaction structured as a lease, by the value of the sum of, as applicable:
(1) Any fixed payments to be paid by the foreign person that is a lessee in the transaction to, or for the benefit of, the lessor over the term of the lease;
(2) Any variable payments that depend on an index or a rate (such as a market interest rate) to be paid by the foreign person that is a lessee in the transaction to, or for the benefit of, the lessor, over the term of the lease, measured for purposes of this section by using the index or rate on the day immediately prior to the date the parties file the formal written notice; and
(3) Any non-cash consideration to be provided by the foreign person that is a lessee in the transaction to, or for the benefit of, the lessor, over the term of the lease, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(c) For a transaction structured as a concession, by the value of the sum of all rent, fees, and charges to be paid by the foreign person to the grantor and any non-cash consideration to be provided by such foreign person to, or for the benefit of, the grantor, over the term of a concession agreement, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(d) Determining the value of consideration:
(1) Where the consideration is or includes securities traded on a national securities exchange, the value of the securities is the closing price on the national securities exchange on which the securities are primarily traded on the trading day immediately prior to the date the parties file the formal written notice with the Committee under § 802.501(a), or if the securities were not traded on that day, the last published closing price.
(2) Where the consideration is or includes other non-cash assets, services, interests, or other in-kind consideration, including real property contributed by a foreign person that is party to a transaction involving the exchange of land or contribution to a joint venture, the value of the assets, service, interests, or other in-kind consideration is their fair market value as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(3) Where the transaction is or includes a lending transaction, the consideration includes the cash value of the mortgage, loan, or similar financing arrangement, made available or provided by or on behalf of the foreign person that is a party to the transaction.
(4) Where the transaction is or includes the conversion of a contingent equity interest previously acquired by a foreign person that is a party to the transaction, the consideration includes what was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to initially acquire the contingent equity interest, in addition to any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.
(e) Exceptions:
(1) In the case of a purchase, to the extent the consideration to be provided by the foreign person has not been or cannot reasonably be determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice, the value of the transaction includes, with respect to assets for which consideration has not been determined, the fair market value of the assets being purchased in the transaction as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
Note 1 to § 802.1103(
e
)(1):
The consideration amount may be determined notwithstanding minor standard adjustments that are to be made at closing.
(2) In the case of a lease or concession, where the consideration to be provided by the foreign person has not been or cannot reasonably be determined at the time of filing, or, where the parties cannot reasonably determine the value of rent, fees, charges, or services under paragraph (c) of this section, the filing fee required shall be that required under § 802.1101(b).
(f) The Staff Chairperson is not bound by the parties' characterization of the transaction and its value or their good faith approximation provided to the Committee under § 802.502(b)(1)(ix).
(g) Fair market value means the price that would be received in exchange for sale of an interest, or paid to receive a service or to transfer liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants.
(1) In determining fair market value, parties shall make a good faith estimate and generally may rely on the last valuation as presented in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or other widely recognized accounting principles, such as the International Financial Reporting Standards, or the valuation of an independent appraiser; provided, however, that if no valuation has occurred within the prior two fiscal quarters, or if there have been significant changes to the fair market value since the last valuation, the parties shall make a good faith estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice, or, if the parties are filing after the completion of the transaction, the completion date of the transaction.
(2) In determining the fair market value of services, the parties may rely upon the value of services determined by the parties as set forth in an executed written agreement, or make an estimate at the time of filing the formal written notice based upon rates charged to third parties or recent industry reports or other sources of comparable commercial data; provided, however, if such sources are unavailable, the parties shall make a good faith estimate. If the parties are filing after completion of the transaction, the parties shall make an estimate of the fair market value as of the completion date.
(h) Multiple-phase and contingent equity interest transactions:
(1) Where a transaction will be effectuated in multiple phases, the value of the transaction includes the total value of the multiple phases, as may be reasonably determined as of the date the parties file the formal written notice.
(2) Where a transaction is or includes the acquisition of contingent equity interest, the value of the transaction includes the consideration that was paid by or on behalf of the foreign person to acquire the contingent equity interest, and, if the conditions that lead to conversion will occur imminently, the conditions are within the control of the acquiring party, and the consideration for the interest that would be acquired upon conversion or satisfaction of contingent conditions can be reasonably determined at the time of acquisition, any other consideration paid or to be paid in connection with the conversion.
Note 2 to § 800.1103(
h
)(2):
See § 802.1103(d)(4) regarding consideration for a contingent equity interest where the interest has been converted to equity.
(i) Examples:
(1) Example 1. Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into an agreement for the purchase of a parcel of covered real estate (Parcel X) from Corporation B. In exchange for ownership of Parcel X, Corporation A forgives a debt owed to it by Corporation B that is valued at $5,000,000 and pays $35,000,000 to Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $40,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
Example 1.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into an agreement for the purchase of a parcel of covered real estate (Parcel X) from Corporation B. In exchange for ownership of Parcel X, Corporation A forgives a debt owed to it by Corporation B that is valued at $5,000,000 and pays $35,000,000 to Corporation B. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $40,000,000, and the filing fee is $7,500.
(2) Example 2. Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into an agreement to lease a parcel of covered real estate from Corporation B. Pursuant to the agreement, Corporation A will pay Corporation B a fixed annual payment of $300,000 for a term of three years, with an option to renew the lease at the end of the term. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $900,000, and the filing fee is $750.
Example 2.
Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into an agreement to lease a parcel of covered real estate from Corporation B. Pursuant to the agreement, Corporation A will pay Corporation B a fixed annual payment of $300,000 for a term of three years, with an option to renew the lease at the end of the term. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $900,000, and the filing fee is $750.
(3) Example 3. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to enter into a concession agreement with a U.S. public entity for the right to use certain covered real estate for the purpose of developing and operating terminal infrastructure at a covered port. The concession agreement is for a five-year term. Under the concession agreement, Corporation A will pay the U.S. public entity a use charge of $450,000 per year starting in the second year. The concession agreement also requires Corporation A to pay utility fees and common area maintenance charges of $5,000 per month for the full concession term. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $2,100,000, based on the $1,800,000 use charge and $300,000 in utility fees. The filing fee is $750.
Example 3.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to enter into a concession agreement with a U.S. public entity for the right to use certain covered real estate for the purpose of developing and operating terminal infrastructure at a covered port. The concession agreement is for a five-year term. Under the concession agreement, Corporation A will pay the U.S. public entity a use charge of $450,000 per year starting in the second year. The concession agreement also requires Corporation A to pay utility fees and common area maintenance charges of $5,000 per month for the full concession term. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $2,100,000, based on the $1,800,000 use charge and $300,000 in utility fees. The filing fee is $750.
(4) Example 4. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to enter into an oil, gas and mineral lease with a U.S. public entity. Under the terms of the lease, Corporation A pays a lease bonus of $1,000 per acre as an inducement to execute the lease with respect to a 10-acre parcel of covered real estate. The lease has a 10-year term. Corporation A must pay a royalty of 12.5 percent with respect to oil or gas production from the leased parcel. In the absence of such production, the foreign person is obligated to pay a rental fee of $1,000 per acre per year for the first five years and $2,000 per acre thereafter. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $160,000 and there is no filing fee.
Example 4.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to enter into an oil, gas and mineral lease with a U.S. public entity. Under the terms of the lease, Corporation A pays a lease bonus of $1,000 per acre as an inducement to execute the lease with respect to a 10-acre parcel of covered real estate. The lease has a 10-year term. Corporation A must pay a royalty of 12.5 percent with respect to oil or gas production from the leased parcel. In the absence of such production, the foreign person is obligated to pay a rental fee of $1,000 per acre per year for the first five years and $2,000 per acre thereafter. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the transaction is $160,000 and there is no filing fee.
(5) Example 5. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase Plot X and Plot Y. The transaction will be completed in two phases. Corporation A will first acquire Plot X for $30,000,000 (phase 1). One month later, Corporation A will acquire Plot Y for another $30,000,000 (phase 2). Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for both phases), and the filing fee is $75,000.
Example 5.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase Plot X and Plot Y. The transaction will be completed in two phases. Corporation A will first acquire Plot X for $30,000,000 (phase 1). One month later, Corporation A will acquire Plot Y for another $30,000,000 (phase 2). Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for both phases), and the filing fee is $75,000.
(6) Example 6. Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase Plot X and acquire an option to purchase Plot Y. Corporation A will acquire Plot X and the option related to Plot Y in exchange for $30,000,000. Corporation A informs its shareholders that within two months, it will exercise the option to purchase Plot Y in exchange for another $30,000,000. Because the option to convert is imminent and in the control of Corporation A, and the consideration can be reasonably determined, the value of the transaction includes the consideration to be paid in connection with the conversion. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for the purchase of Plot X and the option to purchase Plot Y), and the filing fee is $75,000.
Example 6.
Corporation A, a foreign person, proposes to purchase Plot X and acquire an option to purchase Plot Y. Corporation A will acquire Plot X and the option related to Plot Y in exchange for $30,000,000. Corporation A informs its shareholders that within two months, it will exercise the option to purchase Plot Y in exchange for another $30,000,000. Because the option to convert is imminent and in the control of Corporation A, and the consideration can be reasonably determined, the value of the transaction includes the consideration to be paid in connection with the conversion. Assuming no other relevant facts, the value of the consideration is $60,000,000 (the total consideration for the purchase of Plot X and the option to purchase Plot Y), and the filing fee is $75,000.
(j) The determination of the value of the transaction for purposes of calculating the filing fee in no way limits the Committee's jurisdiction or its authority to review, investigate, mitigate, impose penalties regarding, or take any other action regarding any covered real estate transaction.

§ 802.1104   Manner of payment.

Parties to a transaction must pay any filing fee by electronic payment. The filing fee must be paid in U.S. dollars. Instructions for paying filing fees are available on the Committee's section of the Department of the Treasury website.

§ 802.1105   Refunds.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Department of the Treasury shall not refund a filing fee in whole or in part.
(b) If the Committee determines that the transaction is not a covered real estate transaction, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(c) In response to a petition by a party, if the Staff Chairperson determines, based on the information and representations contained in the formal written notice, as well as any other information provided by the parties, that a party or the parties to a transaction paid a filing fee in an amount greater than required at the time of filing, the Department of the Treasury shall refund the amount of overpayment to the party or parties who paid the filing fee.

§ 802.1106   Waiver.

If the Staff Chairperson determines that extraordinary circumstances relating to national security warrant, the Staff Chairperson may waive the filing fee in whole or in part and will notify the parties in writing. No waiver shall be implied, even where the Staff Chairperson does not reject a voluntary notice under § 802.1108 for failure to pay the required filing fee.

§ 802.1107   Refilings.

The parties to a transaction shall not be required to pay an additional filing fee in the event that the Staff Chairperson permits the parties to withdraw and refile a notice under § 802.509(c)(2), unless the Staff Chairperson determines that a material change to the transaction has occurred, or a material inaccuracy or omission was made by the parties in information provided to the Committee, that requires the Committee to consider new information, in which case the Staff Chairperson will inform the parties in writing.

§ 802.1108   Rejection of voluntary notice.

The Staff Chairperson may reject a voluntary notice under § 802.504(a)(3) upon a determination that the amount of the filing fee paid by the parties was insufficient under this subpart. Prior to rejecting a notice under § 802.504(a)(3), the Staff Chairperson shall inform the parties in writing of the insufficiency of payment and provide the parties three business days to pay the remainder of the filing fee. If the Staff Chairperson does not reject a voluntary notice under § 802.504(a)(3) upon a determination that the amount of the filing fee payment paid by the parties was insufficient under this section, the balance of the fee remains payable unless the Staff Chairperson notifies the parties in writing that the payment has been waived in whole or in part.

Appendix A to Part 802—List of Military Installations and Other U.S. Government Sites

Site name
Location
Part 1
Adelphi Laboratory Center
Adelphi, MD.
Air Force Maui Optical and Supercomputing Site
Maui, HI.
Air Force Office of Scientific Research
Arlington, VA.
Andersen Air Force Base
Yigo, Guam.
Anniston Army Depot
Anniston, AL.
Army Futures Command
Austin, TX.
Army Research Lab—Orlando Simulations and Training Technology Center
Orlando, FL.
Army Research Office
Durham, NC.
Barter Island Regional Radar Site
Barter Island, AK.
Beale Air Force Base
Yuba City, CA.
Biometric Technology Center (Defense Forensics and Biometrics Agency)
Clarksburg, WV.
Blue Grass Army Depot
Richmond, KY.
Buckley Space Force Base
Aurora, CO.
Camp Blaz
Dededo, Guam.
Camp Mackall
Southern Pines, NC.
Camp Navajo
Bellemont, AZ.
Camp Roberts
San Miguel, CA.
Cape Newenham Long Range Radar Site
Cape Newenham, AK.
Cavalier Space Force Station
Cavalier, ND.
Cheyenne Mountain Space Force Station
Colorado Springs, CO.
Clear Space Force Station
Anderson, AK.
Cold Bay Regional Radar Site
Cold Bay, AK.
Combat Capabilities Development Command Soldier Center
Natick, MA.
Creech Air Force Base
Indian Springs, NV.
Davis-Monthan Air Force Base
Tucson, AZ.
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
Arlington, VA.
Detroit Arsenal
Warren, MI.
Eareckson Air Station
Shemya, AK.
Eielson Air Force Base
Fairbanks, AK.
Ellington Field Joint Reserve Base
Houston, TX.
Fairchild Air Force Base
Spokane, WA.
Fort Belvoir
Fairfax County, VA.
Fort Bliss
El Paso, TX.
Fort Campbell
Hopkinsville, KY and Clarksville, TN.
Fort Carson
Colorado Springs, CO.
Fort Cavazos
Killeen, TX.
Fort Detrick
Frederick, MD.
Fort Drum
Watertown, NY.
Fort Eisenhower
Augusta, GA.
Fort Gregg-Adams
Petersburg, VA.
Fort Knox
Elizabethtown, KY.
Fort Leavenworth
Leavenworth County, KS.
Fort Leonard Wood
Pulaski County, MO.
Fort Meade
Anne Arundel County, MD.
Fort Moore
Columbus, GA.
Fort Riley
Junction City, KS.
Fort Shafter
Honolulu, HI.
Fort Sill
Lawton, OK.
Fort Stewart
Hinesville, GA.
Fort Yukon Long Range Radar Site
Fort Yukon, AK.
Francis E. Warren Air Force Base
Cheyenne, WY.
Guam Tracking Station
Inarajan, Guam.
Hanscom Air Force Base
Lexington, MA.
Hawthorne Army Depot
Hawthorne, NV.
Holloman Air Force Base
Alamogordo, NM.
Holston Army Ammunition Plant
Kingsport, TN.
Indian Mountain Regional Radar Site
Indian Mountain, AK.
Iowa Army Ammunition Plant
Middletown, IA.
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling
Washington, DC.
Joint Base Andrews
Camp Springs, MD.
Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
Anchorage, AK.
Joint Base Langley-Eustis
Hampton, VA and Newport News, VA.
Joint Base Lewis-McChord
Tacoma, WA.
Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
Lakehurst, NJ.
Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall
Arlington, VA.
Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
Honolulu, HI.
Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story
Virginia Beach, VA.
Joint Systems Manufacturing Center—Lima
Lima, OH.
Kaena Point Satellite Tracking Station
Waianae, HI.
Kenai Regional Radar Site
Kenai, AK.
King Salmon Air Force Station
King Salmon, AK.
Kirtland Air Force Base
Albuquerque, NM.
Kodiak Tracking Station
Kodiak Island, AK.
Kotzebue Regional Radar Site
Kotzebue, AK.
Lake City Army Ammunition Plant
Independence, MO.
Letterkenny Army Depot
Chambersburg, PA.
Lisburne Regional Radar Site
Cape Lisburne, AK.
Los Angeles Air Force Base
El Segundo, CA.
MacDill Air Force Base
Tampa, FL.
Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms
Twentynine Palms, CA.
Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort
Beaufort, SC.
Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
Cherry Point, NC.
Marine Corps Air Station Miramar
San Diego, CA.
Marine Corps Air Station New River
Jacksonville, NC.
Marine Corps Air Station Yuma
Yuma, AZ.
Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune
Jacksonville, NC.
Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton
Oceanside, CA.
Marine Corps Base Hawaii
Kaneohe Bay, HI.
Marine Corps Base Hawaii, Camp H.M. Smith
Halawa, HI.
Marine Corps Base Quantico
Quantico, VA.
Marine Corps Logistics Base Albany
Albany, GA.
Marine Corps Logistics Base Barstow
Barstow, CA.
Marine Corps Support Facility Blount Island
Jacksonville, FL.
Mark Center
Alexandria, VA.
McAlester Army Ammunition Plant
McAlester, OK.
Military Ocean Terminal Concord
Concord, CA.
Military Ocean Terminal Sunny Point
Brunswick County, NC.
Minot Air Force Base
Minot, ND.
Naval Air Station Corpus Christi
Corpus Christi, TX.
Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base New Orleans
Belle Chasse, LA.
Naval Air Station Oceana
Virginia Beach, VA.
Naval Air Station Oceana Dam Neck Annex
Virginia Beach, VA.
Naval Air Station Whidbey Island
Oak Harbor, WA.
Naval Base Guam
Apra Harbor, Guam.
Naval Base Kitsap Bangor
Silverdale, WA.
Naval Base Point Loma
San Diego, CA.
Naval Base San Diego
San Diego, CA.
Naval Base Ventura County—Port Hueneme Operating Facility
Port Hueneme, CA.
Naval Logistics Support Activity Ketchikan
Ketchikan, AK.
Naval Logistics Support Activity LaMoure
LaMoure, ND.
Naval Logistics Support Annex Orlando
Okahumpka, FL.
Naval Logistics Support Facility Aguada
Aguada, Puerto Rico.
Naval Logistics Support Facility Cutler
Cutler, ME.
Naval Research Laboratory
Washington, DC.
Naval Research Laboratory—Blossom Point
Welcome, MD.
Naval Research Laboratory—Stennis Space Center
Hancock County, MS.
Naval Research Laboratory—Tilghman
Tilghman, MD.
Naval Station Newport
Newport, RI.
Naval Station Norfolk
Norfolk, VA.
Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay
Kings Bay, GA.
Naval Submarine Base New London
Groton, CT.
Naval Suffolk Facility
Suffolk, VA.
Naval Support Activity Crane
Crane, IN.
Naval Support Activity Orlando
Orlando, FL.
Naval Support Activity Panama City
Panama City, FL.
Naval Support Activity Philadelphia
Philadelphia, PA.
Naval Support Facility Carderock
Bethesda, MD.
Naval Support Facility Dahlgren
Dahlgren, VA.
Naval Support Facility Indian Head
Indian Head, MD.
Naval Surface Warfare Center Carderock Division—Acoustic Research Detachment
Bayview, ID.
Naval Weapons Station Seal Beach Detachment Norco
Norco, CA.
New Boston Air Station
New Boston, NH.
Offutt Air Force Base
Bellevue, NE.
Oliktok Long Range Radar Site
Oliktok, AK.
Orchard Combat Training Center
Boise, ID.
Peason Ridge Training Area
Leesville, LA.
Pentagon
Arlington, VA.
Peterson Space Force Base
Colorado Springs, CO.
Picatinny Arsenal
Morris County, NJ.
Pine Bluff Arsenal
White Hall, AR.
Piñon Canyon Maneuver Site
Tyrone, CO.
Pohakuloa Training Area
Hilo, HI.
Point Barrow Long Range Radar Site
Point Barrow, AK.
Portsmouth Naval Shipyard
Kittery, ME.
Pueblo Chemical Depot
Pueblo, CO.
Radford Army Ammunition Plant
Radford, VA.
Red River Army Depot
Texarkana, TX.
Rock Island Arsenal
Rock Island, IL.
Romanzof Regional Radar Site
Romanzof, AK.
Rome Research Laboratory
Rome, NY.
Scott Air Force Base
St. Clair County, IL.
Scranton Army Ammunition Plant
Scranton, PA.
Seymour Johnson Air Force Base
Goldsboro, NC.
Shaw Air Force Base
Sumter, SC.
Southeast Alaska Acoustic Measurement Facility
Ketchikan, AK.
Sparrevohn Regional Radar Site
Sparrevohn, AK.
Tatalina Regional Radar Site
Tatalina, AK.
Tin City Long Range Radar Site
Tin City, AK.
Tooele Army Depot
Tooele, UT.
Travis Air Force Base
Fairfield, CA.
Tyndall Air Force Base
Bay County, FL.
Watervliet Arsenal
Watervliet, NY.
Part 2
Aberdeen Proving Ground
Aberdeen, MD.
Air Force Plant 42
Palmdale, CA.
Altus Air Force Base
Altus, OK.
Arnold Air Force Base
Coffee County and Franklin County, TN.
Barksdale Air Force Base
Bossier City, LA.
Camp Dodge
Johnston, IA.
Camp Grayling
Grayling, MI.
Camp Shelby
Hattiesburg, MS.
Camp Williams
Bluffdale, UT.
Cannon Air Force Base
Clovis, NM.
Cape Canaveral Space Force Station
Cape Canaveral, FL.
Chocolate Mountain Aerial Gunnery Range
Niland, CA.
Columbus Air Force Base
Columbus, MS.
Dare County Range
Manns Harbor, NC.
Dover Air Force Base
Delmarva, DE.
Dyess Air Force Base
Abilene, TX.
Edwards Air Force Base
Edwards, CA.
Eglin Air Force Base
Valparaiso, FL.
Ellsworth Air Force Base
Box Elder, SD.
Fallon Range Complex
Fallon, NV.
Fort Greely
Delta Junction, AK.
Fort Huachuca
Sierra Vista, AZ.
Fort Irwin
San Bernardino County, CA.
Fort Johnson
Vernon Parish, LA.
Fort Liberty
Fayetteville, NC.
Fort Novosel
Dale County, AL.
Fort Wainwright
Fairbanks, AK.
Goodfellow Air Force Base
San Angelo, TX.
Grand Forks Air Force Base
Grand Forks, ND.
Hardwood Range
Necedah, WI.
Hill Air Force Base
Ogden, UT.
Joint Base Cape Cod
Sandwich, MA.
Joint Base Charleston
North Charleston, SC.
Joint Base San Antonio
San Antonio, TX.
Laughlin Air Force Base
Del Rio, TX.
Little Rock Air Force Base
Little Rock, AR.
Luke Air Force Base
Glendale, AZ.
Malmstrom Air Force Base
Great Falls, MT.
Maxwell-Gunter Air Force Base
Montgomery, AL.
Moody Air Force Base
Valdosta, GA.
Mountain Home Air Force Base
Mountain Home, ID.
Muscatatuck Urban Training Center
Butlerville, IN.
Naval Air Station Meridian
Meridian, MS.
Naval Air Station Patuxent River
Lexington Park, MD.
Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake
Ridgecrest, CA.
Naval Base Kitsap—Keyport
Keyport, WA.
Naval Base Ventura County—Point Mugu Operating Facility
Point Mugu, CA.
Naval Weapons Systems Training Facility Boardman
Boardman, OR.
Nellis Air Force Base
Las Vegas, NV.
Nevada Test and Training Range
Tonopah, NV.
Pacific Missile Range Facility
Kekaha, HI.
Patrick Space Force Base
Cocoa Beach, FL.
Redstone Arsenal
Huntsville, AL.
Schriever Space Force Base
Colorado Springs, CO.
Tinker Air Force Base
Midwest City, OK.
Townsend Bombing Range
McIntosh County, GA.
Tropic Regions Test Center
Wahiawa, HI.
Utah Test and Training Range
Barro, UT.
Vance Air Force Base
Enid, OK.
Vandenberg Space Force Base
Lompoc, CA.
West Desert Test Center
Dugway, UT.
White Sands Missile Range
White Sands Missile Range, NM.
Whiteman Air Force Base
Knob Noster, MO.
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
Dayton, OH.
Yuma Proving Ground
Yuma, AZ.
Site name
County
Township/range
Part 3
90th Missile Wing, Francis E. Warren Air Force Base Missile Field (Colorado, Nebraska, and Wyoming)
Logan, CO
All lands except those located south of Township 8 North and east of Range 51 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Morgan, CO
All lands located north of Township 3 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Sedgwick, CO
All lands except those located east of Range 46 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Washington, CO
All lands located north of Township 4 North, and west of Range 52 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Weld, CO
All lands located north of Township 4 North, and east of Range 64 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Banner, NE
All.
Cheyenne, NE
All.
Deuel, NE
All lands located south of Township 15 North, and west of Range 43 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Garden, NE
All lands located south of Township 19 North, and west Range 43 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Kimball, NE
All.
Morrill, NE
All lands except those located north of Township 21 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Scotts Bluff, NE
All.
Sioux, NE
All lands except those located north of Township 26 North, and east of Range 57 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Goshen, WY
All lands except those located north of Township 27 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Laramie, WY
All lands except those located south of Township 14 North, and west of Range 64 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Platte, WY
All lands except those located north of Township 27 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
341st Missile Wing, Malmstrom Air Force Base Missile Field (Montana)
Blaine, MT
All lands except those located north of Township 24 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Cascade, MT
All.
Chouteau, MT
All lands except those located north of Township 24 North, and east of Range 8 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Fergus, MT
All lands except those located east of Range 26 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Glacier, MT
All lands located south of Township 35 North, and east of Range 7 West, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Golden Valley, MT
All lands except those located south of Township 11 North, and east of Range 20 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Judith Basin, MT
All.
Lewis and Clark, MT
All lands except those located south of Township 14 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Liberty, MT
All lands except those located north of Township 31 North, and east of Range 5 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Meagher, MT
All lands except those located south of Township 12 North, and west of Range 9 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Musselshell, MT
All lands located north of Township 10 North, and west of Range 23 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Petroleum, MT
All lands located west of Range 27 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Phillips, MT
All lands located south of Township 23 North, and west of Range 25 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Pondera, MT
All lands except those located west of Range 9 West, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Stillwater, MT
All lands located north of Township 3 North, and west of Range 20 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Sweet Grass, MT
All lands located north of Township 3 North, and east of Range 12 East using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Teton, MT
All lands except those located west of Range 10 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Toole, MT
All lands except those located north of Township 34 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Wheatland, MT
All.
91st Missile Wing, Minot Air Force Base Missile Field (North Dakota)
Bottineau, ND
All lands except those located east of Range 77 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Burke, ND
All lands except those located west of Range 93 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Dunn, ND
All lands located north of Township 148 North, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
McHenry, ND
All lands except those located north of Township 156 North, and east of Range 80 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
McKenzie, ND
All lands located east of Range 95 West, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
McLean, ND
All lands except those located south of Township 145 North using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Mercer, ND
All lands located north of Township 145 North, east of Range 90 West, using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Mountrail, ND
All.
Pierce, ND
All lands located south of Township 155 North, west of Range 72 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Renville, ND
All.
Sheridan, ND
All lands except those located south of Township 148 North, and east of Range 78 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Ward, ND
All lands except those located north of Township 155 North, and east of Range 83 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Williams, ND
All lands located south of Township 158 North, and east of Range 96 West using the Bureau of Land Management's Public Lands Survey System.
Site name
Location
Part 4
Boston Range Complex
Offshore Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maine.
Boston Operating Area
Offshore Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maine.
Charleston Operating Area
Offshore North Carolina, South Carolina.
Cherry Point Operating Area
Offshore North Carolina, South Carolina.
Corpus Christi Operating Area
Offshore Texas.
Eglin Gulf Test and Training Range
Offshore Florida.
Gulf of Mexico Range Complex
Offshore Mississippi, Alabama, Florida.
Hawaii Range Complex
Offshore Hawaii.
Jacksonville Operating Area
Offshore Florida, Georgia.
Jacksonville Range Complex
Offshore Florida.
Key West Operating Area
Offshore Florida.
Key West Range Complex
Offshore Florida.
Narragansett Bay Range Complex
Offshore Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island.
Narragansett Bay Operating Area
Offshore Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island.
New Orleans Operating Area
Offshore Louisiana.
Northern California Range Complex
Offshore California.
Northwest Training Range Complex
Offshore Oregon, Washington.
Panama City Operating Area
Offshore Florida.
Pensacola Operating Area
Offshore Alabama, Florida.
Point Mugu Sea Range
Offshore California.
Southern California Range Complex
Offshore California.
Virginia Capes Operating Area
Offshore Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia.
Virginia Capes Range Complex
Offshore Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia.
[[85 FR 3166, Jan. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 57350, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 88133, Nov. 7, 2024]]

PARTS 803-849 [RESERVED]


PART 850—PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO U.S. INVESTMENTS IN CERTAIN NATIONAL SECURITY TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS IN COUNTRIES OF CONCERN

[Authority:50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.; E.O. 14105, 88 FR 54867, 31 U.S.C. 321.]
Authority:
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
E.O. 14105, 88 FR 54867, 31 U.S.C. 321.
[Source:89 FR 90462, Nov. 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
89 FR 90462, Nov. 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General


§ 850.101   Scope.

(a) This part implements Executive Order 14105 of August 9, 2023, “Addressing United States Investments in Certain National Security Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern” (the Order), directing the Secretary of the Treasury (the Secretary), in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies, to issue, subject to public notice and comment, regulations that require U.S. persons to provide notification of information relative to certain transactions involving covered foreign persons and that prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in certain other transactions involving covered foreign persons.
(b) The regulations identify certain types of transactions that are covered transactions—that is, transactions that are either notifiable or prohibited. Additionally, the regulations identify other instances where a U.S. person has obligations with respect to certain transactions. The regulations prescribe exceptions to the definition of covered transaction. A transaction that meets an exception is not a covered transaction and is referred to as an excepted transaction. Finally, the regulations prescribe a process for the Secretary to exempt certain covered transactions from the rules otherwise prohibiting or requiring notification of covered transactions on a case-by-case basis.
covered transactions
—that is, transactions that are either notifiable or prohibited. Additionally, the regulations identify other instances where a U.S. person has obligations with respect to certain transactions. The regulations prescribe exceptions to the definition of
covered transaction.
A transaction that meets an exception is not a
covered transaction
and is referred to as an
excepted transaction.
Finally, the regulations prescribe a process for the Secretary to exempt certain
covered transactions
from the rules otherwise prohibiting or requiring notification of
covered transactions
on a case-by-case basis.
(c) The regulations identify categories of covered transactions that are notifiable transactions. A notifiable transaction is a transaction by a U.S. person or its controlled foreign entity with or resulting in the establishment of a covered foreign person that engages in a covered activity that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, has determined may contribute to the threat to the national security of the United States identified in the Order, or the engagement of a person of a country of concern in a covered activity that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, has determined may contribute to the threat to the national security of the United States identified in the Order. The regulations require a U.S. person to notify the Department of the Treasury of each such notifiable transaction by such U.S. person or its controlled foreign entity. The regulations also require a U.S. person to provide prompt notice to the Department of the Treasury upon acquiring actual knowledge after the completion date of a transaction of facts or circumstances that would have caused the transaction to be a covered transaction if the U.S. person had had such knowledge on the completion date. Additionally, any person who makes a representation, statement, or certification under this part is required to promptly notify the Department of the Treasury upon learning of a material omission or inaccuracy in such representation, statement, or certification.
covered transactions
that are
notifiable transactions.
A
notifiable transaction
is a transaction by a
U.S. person
or its
controlled foreign entity
with or resulting in the establishment of a
covered foreign person
that engages in a
covered activity
that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies,
has determined may contribute to the threat to the national security of the United States identified in the Order, or the engagement of a
person of a country of concern
in a
covered activity
that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies,
has determined may contribute to the threat to the national security of the United States identified in the Order. The regulations require a
U.S. person
to notify the Department of the Treasury of each such notifiable transaction by such
U.S. person
or its
controlled foreign entity.
The regulations also require a
U.S. person
to provide prompt notice to the Department of the Treasury upon acquiring actual knowledge after the
completion date
of a transaction of facts or circumstances that would have caused the transaction to be a
covered transaction
if the
U.S. person
had had such knowledge on the
completion date.
Additionally, any person who makes a representation, statement, or certification under this part is required to promptly notify the Department of the Treasury upon learning of a material omission or inaccuracy in such representation, statement, or certification.
(d) The regulations identify categories of covered transactions that are prohibited transactions. A prohibited transaction is a transaction by a U.S. person with or resulting in the establishment of a covered foreign person that engages in a covered activity that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, has determined poses a particularly acute national security threat because of its potential to significantly advance the military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of a country of concern, or engagement of a person of a country of concern in a covered activity that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, has determined poses a particularly acute national security threat because of its potential to significantly advance the military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of a country of concern. The regulations prohibit a U.S. person from engaging in a prohibited transaction and also prohibit a U.S. person from knowingly directing a transaction that the U.S. person knows would be a prohibited transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person. The regulations also require a U.S. person to take all reasonable steps to prohibit and prevent any transaction by its controlled foreign entity that would be a prohibited transaction if undertaken by a U.S. person.
covered transactions
that are
prohibited transactions.
A
prohibited transaction
is a transaction by a
U.S. person
with or resulting in the establishment of a
covered foreign person
that engages in a
covered activity
that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies,
has determined poses a particularly acute national security threat because of its potential to significantly advance the military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of a
country of concern,
or engagement of a
person of a country of concern
in a
covered activity
that the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other
relevant agencies,
has determined poses a particularly acute national security threat because of its potential to significantly advance the military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of a
country of concern.
The regulations prohibit a
U.S. person
from engaging in a
prohibited transaction
and also prohibit a
U.S. person
from
knowingly directing
a transaction that the
U.S. person
knows would be a
prohibited transaction
if engaged in by a
U.S. person.
The regulations also require a
U.S. person
to take all reasonable steps to prohibit and prevent any transaction by its
controlled foreign entity
that would be a
prohibited transaction
if undertaken by a
U.S. person.
(e) Pursuant to the Order, the Secretary shall, as appropriate:
(1) Communicate with the Congress and the public with respect to the implementation of the Order;
(2) Consult with the Secretary of Commerce on industry engagement and analysis of notifiable transactions;
(3) Consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, and the Director of National Intelligence on the implications for military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of covered national security technologies and products in the Order and potential covered national security technologies and products;
(4) Engage, together with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, with allies and partners regarding the national security risks posed by countries of concern advancing covered national security technologies and products;
(5) Consult with the Secretary of State on foreign policy considerations related to the implementation of the Order, including but not limited to the issuance and amendment of regulations; and
(6) Investigate, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, as appropriate, violations of the Order or the regulations in this part and pursue available civil penalties for such violations.

§ 850.102   Relation of this part to other laws and regulations.

Nothing in this part shall be construed as altering or affecting any other authority, process, regulation, investigation, enforcement measure, license, authorization, or review provided by or established under any other provision of Federal law, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States. This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this subtitle. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of the same or similar language among the parts of this subtitle. No action taken pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation, including the other parts of this subtitle, authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part or alters any other obligation under this part. No action taken pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.
et seq.
) (IEEPA), or any other authority of the President or the Congress under the Constitution of the United States. This part is separate from, and independent of, the other parts of this subtitle. Differing foreign policy and national security circumstances may result in differing interpretations of the same or similar language among the parts of this subtitle. No action taken pursuant to any other provision of law or regulation, including the other parts of this subtitle, authorizes any transaction prohibited by this part or alters any other obligation under this part. No action taken pursuant to this part relieves the involved parties from complying with any other applicable laws or regulations.

§ 850.103   Rules of construction and interpretation.

(a) As used in this part, the term “including” (or variations such as “include”) means “including but not limited to.”
(b) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate.
(c) Section headings are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this part.

§ 850.104   Knowledge standard.

(a) Certain provisions of this part apply only if a U.S. person knows of a fact or circumstance. The term knowledge is defined in § 850.216. In determining whether a U.S. person is complying with this part or has violated any obligation under this part, the Department of the Treasury will assess whether such person has or had knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances at the specified time.
knows
of a fact or circumstance. The term
knowledge
is defined in § 850.216. In determining whether a U.S. person is complying with this part or has violated any obligation under this part, the Department of the Treasury will assess whether such person has or had knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances at the specified time.
(b) Such assessment as to whether, at the time of a given transaction, a U.S. person has or had knowledge of a given fact or circumstance will be made based on information a U.S. person had or could have had through a reasonable and diligent inquiry. A U.S. person that has failed to conduct a reasonable and diligent inquiry by the time of a given transaction may be assessed to have had reason to know of a given fact or circumstance, including facts or circumstances that would cause the transaction to be a covered transaction.
(c) In assessing whether a U.S. person has undertaken such a reasonable and diligent inquiry, the Department of the Treasury's considerations will include the following, as applicable, among others that the Department of the Treasury deems relevant, with respect to a particular transaction:
(1) The inquiry a U.S. person has made regarding an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner), including questions asked of the investment target or relevant counterparty, as of the time of the transaction;
(2) The contractual representations or warranties the U.S. person has obtained or attempted to obtain from the investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner) with respect to the determination of a transaction's status as a covered transaction and status of an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner) as a covered foreign person;
(3) The efforts by the U.S. person as of the time of the transaction to obtain and consider available non-public information relevant to the determination of a transaction's status as a covered transaction and the status of an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner) as a covered foreign person;
(4) Available public information, the efforts undertaken by the U.S. person to obtain and consider such information, and the degree to which other information available to the U.S. person as of the time of the transaction is consistent or inconsistent with such publicly available information;
(5) Whether the U.S. person purposefully avoided learning or seeking relevant information;
(6) The presence or absence of warning signs, which may include evasive responses or non-responses from an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner) to questions or a refusal to provide information, contractual representations, or warranties; and
(7) The use of available public and commercial databases to identify and verify relevant information of an investment target or other relevant transaction counterparty (such as a joint venture partner).
(d) An assessment of whether a U.S. person has undertaken a reasonable and diligent inquiry shall be based on a consideration of the totality of relevant facts and circumstances.

Subpart B—Definitions


§ 850.201   Advanced packaging.

The term advanced packaging means to package integrated circuits in a manner that supports the two-and-one-half-dimensional (2.5D) or three-dimensional (3D) assembly of integrated circuits, such as by directly attaching one or more die or wafer using through-silicon vias, die or wafer bonding, heterogeneous integration, or other advanced methods and materials.
advanced packaging
means to package integrated circuits in a manner that supports the two-and-one-half-dimensional (2.5D) or three-dimensional (3D) assembly of integrated circuits, such as by directly attaching one or more die or wafer using through-silicon vias, die or wafer bonding, heterogeneous integration, or other advanced methods and materials.

§ 850.202   AI system.

The term AI system means:
AI system
means:
(a) A machine-based system that can, for a given set of human-defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations, or decisions influencing real or virtual environments—i.e., a system that:
i.e.,
a system that:
(1) Uses data inputs to perceive real and virtual environments;
(2) Abstracts such perceptions into models through automated or algorithmic statistical analysis; and
(3) Uses model inference to make a classification, prediction, recommendation, or decision.
(b) Any data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or utility that operates in whole or in part using a system described in paragraph (a) of this section.

§ 850.203   Certification.

(a) The term certification means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of the person filing a notification or providing other information that certifies under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notification or other information filed or provided:
certification
means a written statement signed by the chief executive officer or other duly authorized designee of the person filing a notification or providing other information that certifies under the penalties provided in the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1001) that the notification or other information filed or provided:
(1) Fully complies with the regulations in this part; and
(2) Is accurate and complete in all material respects to the best knowledge of the person filing a notification or other information.
(b) For purposes of this section, a duly authorized designee is:
(1) In the case of a partnership, any general partner thereof;
(2) In the case of a corporation, any officer thereof; and
(3) In the case of any entity lacking partners and officers, any individual within the organization exercising executive functions similar to those of a general partner of a partnership or an officer of a corporation or otherwise authorized by the board of directors or equivalent to provide such certification.
(c) In each case described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, such designee must possess actual authority to make the certification on behalf of the person filing a notification or other information.
Note 1 to § 850.203:
A template for certifications may be found at the Outbound Investment Security Program section of the Department of the Treasury website.

§ 850.204   Completion date.

The term completion date means:
completion date
means:
(a) With respect to a covered transaction other than under § 850.210(a)(6), the earliest date upon which any interest, asset, property, or right is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to a U.S. person, or as applicable, its controlled foreign entity; or
(b) With respect to a covered transaction under § 850.210(a)(6), the earliest date upon which any interest, asset, property, or right in the relevant covered foreign person is conveyed, assigned, delivered, or otherwise transferred to the applicable fund.

§ 850.205   Contingent equity interest.

The term contingent equity interest means a financial interest (including debt) that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event or at the discretion of the U.S. person that holds the financial interest.
contingent equity interest
means a financial interest (including debt) that currently does not constitute an equity interest but is convertible into, or provides the right to acquire, an equity interest upon the occurrence of a contingency or defined event or at the discretion of the
U.S. person
that holds the financial interest.

§ 850.206   Controlled foreign entity.

(a) The term controlled foreign entity means any entity incorporated in, or otherwise organized under the laws of, a country other than the United States of which a U.S. person is a parent.
controlled foreign entity
means any entity incorporated in, or otherwise organized under the laws of, a country other than the United States of which a U.S. person is a parent.
(b) For purposes of this term, the following rules shall apply in determining whether an entity is a parent of another entity in a tiered ownership structure:
(1) Where the relationship between an entity and another entity is that of parent and subsidiary, the holdings of voting interest or voting power of the board, as applicable, of a subsidiary shall be fully attributed to the parent.
(2) Where the relationship between an entity and another entity is not that of parent and subsidiary (i.e., because the holdings of voting interest or voting power of the board, as applicable, of the first entity in the second entity is 50 percent or less), then the indirect downstream holdings of voting interest or voting power of the board, as applicable, attributed to the first entity shall be determined proportionately.
i.e.,
because the holdings of voting interest or voting power of the board, as applicable, of the first entity in the second entity is 50 percent or less), then the indirect downstream holdings of voting interest or voting power of the board, as applicable, attributed to the first entity shall be determined proportionately.
(3) Where the circumstances in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section apply (i.e., because a U.S. person holds both direct and indirect downstream holdings in the same entity), any holdings of voting interest shall be aggregated for the purposes of applying this definition, and any holdings of voting power of the board shall be aggregated for the purposes of applying this definition. Voting interest shall not be aggregated with voting power of the board for the purposes of applying this definition.
i.e.,
because a U.S. person holds both direct and indirect downstream holdings in the same entity), any holdings of voting interest shall be aggregated for the purposes of applying this definition, and any holdings of voting power of the board shall be aggregated for the purposes of applying this definition. Voting interest shall not be aggregated with voting power of the board for the purposes of applying this definition.

§ 850.207   Country of concern.

The term country of concern has the meaning given to it in the Annex to the Order.
country of concern
has the meaning given to it in the Annex to the Order.

§ 850.208   Covered activity.

The term covered activity means, in the context of a particular transaction, any of the activities referred to in the definition of notifiable transaction in § 850.217 or prohibited transaction in § 850.224.
covered activity
means, in the context of a particular transaction, any of the activities referred to in the definition of notifiable transaction in § 850.217 or prohibited transaction in § 850.224.

§ 850.209   Covered foreign person.

(a) The term covered foreign person means:
covered foreign person
means:
(1) A person of a country of concern that engages in a covered activity; or
(2) A person that directly or indirectly holds a board seat on, a voting or equity interest (other than through securities or interests that would satisfy the conditions in § 850.501(a) if held by a U.S. person) in, or any contractual power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of any person or persons described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from or through which it:
(i) Derives more than 50 percent of its revenue individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it derives at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its revenue, on an annual basis;
(ii) Derives more than 50 percent of its net income individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it derives at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its net income, on an annual basis;
(iii) Incurs more than 50 percent of its capital expenditure individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it incurs at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its capital expenditure, on an annual basis; or
(iv) Incurs more than 50 percent of its operating expenses individually, or as aggregated across such persons from each of which it incurs at least $50,000 (or equivalent) of its operating expenses, on an annual basis.
(3) With respect to a covered transaction described in § 850.210(a)(5), the person of a country of concern that participates in the joint venture is deemed to be a covered foreign person by virtue of its participation in the joint venture.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(1) Calculations shall be based on an audited financial statement from the most recent year. If an audited financial statement is not available, the most recent unaudited financial statement shall be used instead. If no financial statement is available, an independent appraisal shall be used instead. If no independent appraisal is available, a good-faith estimate shall be used instead.
(2) Where an amount is not denominated in U.S. dollars, the U.S. dollar equivalent shall be determined based on the most recent published rate of exchange available on the Department of the Treasury's website.
Note 1 to § 850.209:
References in this section to revenue, net income, capital expenditure, or operating expenses refer to overall revenue, net income, capital expenditure, or operating expenses, as applicable, without subtracting amounts attributable to persons described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section of less than $50,000 (or equivalent).

§ 850.210   Covered transaction.

(a) The term covered transaction means a U.S. person's direct or indirect:
covered transaction
means a U.S. person's direct or indirect:
(1) Acquisition of an equity interest or contingent equity interest in a person that the U.S. person knows at the time of the acquisition is a covered foreign person;
(2) Provision of a loan or a similar debt financing arrangement to a person that the U.S. person knows at the time of the provision is a covered foreign person, where such debt financing affords or will afford the U.S. person an interest in profits of the covered foreign person, the right to appoint members of the board of directors (or equivalent) of the covered foreign person, or other comparable financial or governance rights characteristic of an equity investment but not typical of a loan;
(3) Conversion of a contingent equity interest into an equity interest in a person that the U.S. person knows at the time of the conversion is a covered foreign person, where the contingent equity interest was acquired by the U.S. person on or after January 2, 2025;
(4) Acquisition, leasing, or other development of operations, land, property, or other assets in a country of concern that the U.S. person knows at the time of such acquisition, leasing, or other development will result in, or that the U.S. person plans to result in:
(i) The establishment of a covered foreign person; or
(ii) The engagement of a person of a country of concern in a covered activity;
(5) Entrance into a joint venture, wherever located, that is formed with a person of a country of concern, and that the subject U.S. person knows at the time of entrance into the joint venture that the joint venture will engage, or plans to engage, in a covered activity; or
(6) Acquisition of a limited partner or equivalent interest in a venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund (in each case where the fund is not a U.S. person) that a U.S. person knows at the time of the acquisition likely will invest in a person of a country of concern that is in the semiconductors and microelectronics, quantum information technologies, or artificial intelligence sectors, and such fund undertakes a transaction that would be a covered transaction if undertaken by a U.S. person.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a transaction is not a covered transaction if it is:
(1) An excepted transaction as set forth in § 850.501; or
(2) For the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.
(c) The acquisition of a contingent interest described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may constitute a covered transaction, and the subsequent occurrence of a conversion event described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section may constitute a separate covered transaction. A U.S. person should assess each of the acquisition and the conversion to determine the applicability of this part.
Note 1 to § 850.210:
An indirect covered transaction includes a U.S. person's use of an intermediary to engage in a transaction that would be a covered transaction if engaged in directly by a U.S. person. However, for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a U.S. person is not considered to have acquired an indirect equity interest or contingent equity interest in a covered foreign person when the U.S. person acquires a limited partner or equivalent interest in a venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund and that fund then acquires an equity interest or contingent equity interest in a covered foreign person. (A U.S. person's acquisition of a limited partner or equivalent interest in a non-U.S. person venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund may, however, be a covered transaction under paragraph (a)(6) of this section.)
Note 2 to § 850.210:
Neither the issuance of a secured loan or similar debt financing for which equity is pledged as collateral, nor the acquisition of such secured debt on the secondary market, is an acquisition of an equity interest. However, foreclosure on collateral where the debtholder takes possession of the pledged equity is an acquisition of an equity interest; provided that such an acquisition is not a covered transaction where the equity was pledged prior to January 2, 2025, or where the U.S. person did not know at the time of issuing or acquiring the debt that the pledged equity was in a covered foreign person.
provided that
such an acquisition is not a covered transaction where the equity was pledged prior to January 2, 2025, or where the U.S. person did not know at the time of issuing or acquiring the debt that the pledged equity was in a covered foreign person.

§ 850.211   Develop.

Except as used in § 850.210(a)(4), the term develop means to engage in any stages prior to serial production, such as design or substantive modification, design research, design analyses, design concepts, assembly and testing of prototypes, pilot production schemes, design data, process of transforming design data into a product, configuration design, integration design, and layouts.
develop
means to engage in any stages prior to serial production, such as design or substantive modification, design research, design analyses, design concepts, assembly and testing of prototypes, pilot production schemes, design data, process of transforming design data into a product, configuration design, integration design, and layouts.

§ 850.212   Entity.

The term entity means any branch, partnership, association, estate, joint venture, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, group, sub-group, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state).
entity
means any branch, partnership, association, estate, joint venture, trust, corporation or division of a corporation, group, sub-group, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State or foreign state).

§ 850.213   Excepted transaction.

The term excepted transaction means a transaction that meets the criteria in § 850.501.
excepted transaction
means a transaction that meets the criteria in § 850.501.

§ 850.214   Fabricate.

The term fabricate means to form devices such as transistors, poly capacitors, non-metal resistors, and diodes on a wafer of semiconductor material.
fabricate
means to form devices such as transistors, poly capacitors, non-metal resistors, and diodes on a wafer of semiconductor material.

§ 850.215   Knowingly directing.

The term knowingly directing has the definition set forth in § 850.303.
knowingly directing
has the definition set forth in § 850.303.

§ 850.216   Knowledge.

Knowledge of a fact or circumstance (the term may be a variant, such as “know”) means:
(a) Actual knowledge that a fact or circumstance exists or is substantially certain to occur;
(b) An awareness of a high probability of a fact or circumstance's existence or future occurrence; or
(c) Reason to know of a fact or circumstance's existence.
Note 1 to § 850.216:
See the discussion of the knowledge standard in § 850.104 for more information about how this term is applied in this part.

§ 850.217   Notifiable transaction.

The term notifiable transaction means a covered transaction (that is not a prohibited transaction) in which the relevant covered foreign person or, with respect to a covered transaction described in § 850.210(a)(5), the relevant joint venture:
notifiable transaction
means a covered transaction (that is not a prohibited transaction) in which the relevant covered foreign person or, with respect to a covered transaction described in § 850.210(a)(5), the relevant joint venture:
(a) Designs any integrated circuit that is not described in § 850.224(c);
(b) Fabricates any integrated circuit that is not described in § 850.224(d);
(c) Packages any integrated circuit that is not described in § 850.224(e);
(d) Develops any AI system that is not described in § 850.224(j) or (k) and that is:
(1) Designed to be used for any military end use (e.g., for weapons targeting, target identification, combat simulation, military vehicle or weapons control, military decision-making, weapons design (including chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons), or combat system logistics and maintenance); or government intelligence or mass-surveillance end use (e.g., through incorporation of features such as mining text, audio, or video; image recognition; location tracking; or surreptitious listening devices);
e.g.,
for weapons targeting, target identification, combat simulation, military vehicle or weapons control, military decision-making, weapons design (including chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons), or combat system logistics and maintenance); or government intelligence or mass-surveillance end use (
e.g.,
through incorporation of features such as mining text, audio, or video; image recognition; location tracking; or surreptitious listening devices);
(2) Intended by the covered foreign person or joint venture to be used for any of the following:
(i) Cybersecurity applications;
(ii) Digital forensics tools;
(iii) Penetration testing tools; or
(iv) The control of robotic systems; or
(3) Trained using a quantity of computing power greater than 10^23 computational operations (e.g., integer or floating-point operations).
e.g.,
integer or floating-point operations).
Note 1 to § 850.217:
Consistent with section 3 of the Order, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, shall periodically assess whether the criterion described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section is serving to effectively address threats to the national security of the United States described in the Order and make updates, as appropriate, through public notice.
Note 2 to § 850.217:
Consistent with the definition for develop at § 850.211, to develop an AI system defined at § 850.202(b) in a manner subject to these notification requirements, the relevant covered foreign person or joint venture must engage in the activities enumerated in § 850.211, such as design or substantive modification, with respect to the third-party AI model or machine-based system that is being used by a data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or utility to operate in whole or in part.
Note 3 to § 850.217:
For purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, a person customizing, configuring, or fine-tuning a third-party AI model or machine-based system strictly for its own internal, non-commercial use (e.g., not for sale or licensing) would not implicate the notification requirements for related transactions solely on that basis unless the person's internal, non-commercial use is for government intelligence, mass-surveillance, or military end use, or for digital forensics tools, penetration testing tools, or the control of robotic systems.
e.g.,
not for sale or licensing) would not implicate the notification requirements for related transactions solely on that basis unless the person's internal, non-commercial use is for government intelligence, mass-surveillance, or military end use, or for digital forensics tools, penetration testing tools, or the control of robotic systems.

§ 850.218   Package.

The term package means to assemble various components, such as the integrated circuit die, lead frames, interconnects, and substrate materials to safeguard the semiconductor device and provide electrical connections between different parts of the die.
package
means to assemble various components, such as the integrated circuit die, lead frames, interconnects, and substrate materials to safeguard the semiconductor device and provide electrical connections between different parts of the die.

§ 850.219   Parent.

The term parent means, with respect to an entity:
parent
means, with respect to an entity:
(a) A person who or which directly or indirectly holds more than 50 percent of:
(1) The outstanding voting interest in the entity; or
(2) The voting power of the board of the entity;
(b) The general partner, managing member, or equivalent of the entity; or
(c) The investment adviser to any entity that is a pooled investment fund, with “investment adviser” as defined in the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)).
Note 1 to § 850.219:
Any entity that meets the conditions of paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section with respect to another entity is the parent, even if the parent entity is an intermediate entity and not the ultimate parent.

§ 850.220   Person.

The term person means any individual or entity.
person
means any individual or entity.

§ 850.221   Person of a country of concern.

The term person of a country of concern means:
person of a country of concern
means:
(a) Any individual that:
(1) Is a citizen or permanent resident of a country of concern;
(2) Is not a U.S. citizen; and
(3) Is not a permanent resident of the United States;
(b) An entity with a principal place of business in, headquartered in, or incorporated in or otherwise organized under the laws of, a country of concern;
(c) The government of a country of concern, including any political subdivision, political party, agency, or instrumentality thereof; any person acting for or on behalf of the government of a country of concern; or any entity with respect to which the government of a country of concern holds individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more of the entity's outstanding voting interest, voting power of the board, or equity interest, or otherwise possesses the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such entity (whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise);
(d) Any entity in which one or more persons identified in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, holds at least 50 percent of any of the following interests of such entity: outstanding voting interest, voting power of the board, or equity interest; or
(e) Any entity in which one or more persons identified in paragraph (d) of this section, individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, holds at least 50 percent of any of the following interests of such entity: outstanding voting interest, voting power of the board, or equity interest.

§ 850.222   Principal place of business.

The term principal place of business means the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.
principal place of business
means the primary location where an entity's management directs, controls, or coordinates the entity's activities, or, in the case of an investment fund, where the fund's activities are primarily directed, controlled, or coordinated by or on behalf of the general partner, managing member, or equivalent.

§ 850.223   Produce.

The term produce means to engage in any of the post-development stages of realizing the relevant technology or product, such as engineering, manufacture, integration, assembly, inspection, testing, and quality assurance.
produce
means to engage in any of the post-development stages of realizing the relevant technology or product, such as engineering, manufacture, integration, assembly, inspection, testing, and quality assurance.

§ 850.224   Prohibited transaction.

The term prohibited transaction means a covered transaction in which the relevant covered foreign person or, with respect to a covered transaction described in § 850.210(a)(5), the relevant joint venture:
prohibited transaction
means a covered transaction in which the relevant covered foreign person or, with respect to a covered transaction described in § 850.210(a)(5), the relevant joint venture:
(a) Develops or produces any electronic design automation software for the design of integrated circuits or advanced packaging;
(b) Develops or produces any:
(1) Front-end semiconductor fabrication equipment designed for performing the volume fabrication of integrated circuits, including equipment used in the production stages from a blank wafer or substrate to a completed wafer or substrate (i.e., the integrated circuits are processed but they are still on the wafer or substrate);
i.e.,
the integrated circuits are processed but they are still on the wafer or substrate);
(2) Equipment for performing volume advanced packaging; or
(3) Commodity, material, software, or technology designed exclusively for use in or with extreme ultraviolet lithography fabrication equipment.
(c) Designs any integrated circuit that meets or exceeds the performance parameters in Export Control Classification Number 3A090.a in supplement No. 1 to 15 CFR part 774, or integrated circuits designed for operation at or below 4.5 Kelvin;
(d) Fabricates any of the following:
(1) Logic integrated circuits using a non-planar transistor architecture or with a production technology node of 16/14 nanometers or less, including fully depleted silicon-on-insulator (FDSOI) integrated circuits;
(2) NOT-AND (NAND) memory integrated circuits with 128 layers or more;
(3) Dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) integrated circuits using a technology node of 18 nanometer half-pitch or less;
(4) Integrated circuits manufactured from a gallium-based compound semiconductor;
(5) Integrated circuits using graphene transistors or carbon nanotubes; or
(6) Integrated circuits designed for operation at or below 4.5 Kelvin;
(e) Packages any integrated circuit using advanced packaging techniques;
(f) Develops, installs, sells, or produces any supercomputer enabled by advanced integrated circuits that can provide a theoretical compute capacity of 100 or more double-precision (64-bit) petaflops or 200 or more single-precision (32-bit) petaflops of processing power within a 41,600 cubic foot or smaller envelope;
(g) Develops a quantum computer or produces any of the critical components required to produce a quantum computer such as a dilution refrigerator or two-stage pulse tube cryocooler;
(h) Develops or produces any quantum sensing platform designed for, or which the relevant covered foreign person intends to be used for, any military, government intelligence, or mass-surveillance end use;
(i) Develops or produces any quantum network or quantum communication system designed for, or which the relevant covered foreign person intends to be used for:
(1) Networking to scale up the capabilities of quantum computers, such as for the purposes of breaking or compromising encryption;
(2) Secure communications, such as quantum key distribution; or
(3) Any other application that has any military, government intelligence, or mass-surveillance end use;
(j) Develops any AI system that is designed to be exclusively used for, or which the relevant covered foreign person intends to be used for, any:
(1) Military end use (e.g., for weapons targeting, target identification, combat simulation, military vehicle or weapon control, military decision-making, weapons design (including chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons), or combat system logistics and maintenance); or
e.g.,
for weapons targeting, target identification, combat simulation, military vehicle or weapon control, military decision-making, weapons design (including chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons), or combat system logistics and maintenance); or
(2) Government intelligence or mass-surveillance end use (e.g., through incorporation of features such as mining text, audio, or video; image recognition; location tracking; or surreptitious listening devices);
e.g.,
through incorporation of features such as mining text, audio, or video; image recognition; location tracking; or surreptitious listening devices);
(k) Develops any AI system that is trained using a quantity of computing power greater than:
(1) 10^25 computational operations (e.g., integer or floating-point operations); or
e.g.,
integer or floating-point operations); or
(2) 10^24 computational operations (e.g., integer or floating-point operations) using primarily biological sequence data;
e.g.,
integer or floating-point operations) using primarily biological sequence data;
(l) Meets the conditions set forth in § 850.209(a)(2) because of its relationship to one or more covered foreign persons engaged in any covered activity described in any of paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section; or
(m) Engages in a covered activity, whether referenced in this section or § 850.217 and is:
(1) Included on the Bureau of Industry and Security's Entity List (15 CFR part 744, supplement no. 4);
(2) Included on the Bureau of Industry and Security's Military End User List (15 CFR part 744, supplement no. 7);
(3) Meets the definition of “Military Intelligence End-User” by the Bureau of Industry and Security in 15 CFR 744.22(f)(2);
(4) Included on the Department of the Treasury's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN List), or is an entity in which one or more individuals or entities included on the SDN List, individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, own a 50 percent or greater interest;
(5) Included on the Department of the Treasury's list of Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies (NS-CMIC List); or
(6) Designated as a foreign terrorist organization by the Secretary of State under 8 U.S.C. 1189.
Note 1 to § 850.224:
Consistent with section 3 of the Order, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, shall periodically assess whether the criterion described in paragraph (k) of this section is serving to effectively address threats to the national security of the United States described in the Order and make updates, as appropriate, through public notice.
Note 2 to § 850.224:
Consistent with the definition for develop at § 850.211, to develop an AI system defined at § 850.202(b) in a manner subject to these prohibition requirements, the relevant covered foreign person or joint venture must engage in the activities enumerated in § 850.211, such as design or substantive modification, with respect to the third-party AI model or machine-based system that is being used by a data system, software, hardware, application, tool, or utility to operate in whole or in part.
Note 3 to § 850.224:
For purposes of paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section, a person customizing, configuring, or fine-tuning a third-party AI model or machine-based system strictly for its own internal, non-commercial use (e.g., not for sale or licensing) would not implicate a prohibition for related transactions solely on that basis unless the person's internal, non-commercial use is for government intelligence, mass-surveillance, or military end use, or for digital forensics tools, penetration testing tools, or the control of robotic systems.
e.g.,
not for sale or licensing) would not implicate a prohibition for related transactions solely on that basis unless the person's internal, non-commercial use is for government intelligence, mass-surveillance, or military end use, or for digital forensics tools, penetration testing tools, or the control of robotic systems.

§ 850.225   Quantum computer.

The term quantum computer means a computer that performs computations that harness the collective properties of quantum states, such as superposition, interference, or entanglement.
quantum computer
means a computer that performs computations that harness the collective properties of quantum states, such as superposition, interference, or entanglement.

§ 850.226   Relevant agencies.

The term relevant agencies means the Departments of State, Defense, Justice, Commerce, Energy, and Homeland Security, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Office of the National Cyber Director, and any other department, agency, or office the Secretary determines appropriate.
relevant agencies
means the Departments of State, Defense, Justice, Commerce, Energy, and Homeland Security, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Office of the National Cyber Director, and any other department, agency, or office the Secretary determines appropriate.

§ 850.227   Subsidiary.

The term subsidiary means, with respect to a person, an entity of which such person is a parent.
subsidiary
means, with respect to a person, an entity of which such person is a parent.

§ 850.228   United States.

The term United States or U.S. means the United States of America, the States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States of America, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States of America. For purposes of this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”
United States
or
U.S.
means the United States of America, the States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States of America, or any subdivision of the foregoing, and includes the territorial sea of the United States of America. For purposes of this part, an entity organized under the laws of the United States of America, one of the States, the District of Columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, dependency, or possession of the United States is an entity organized “in the United States.”

§ 850.229   U.S. person.

The term U.S. person means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including any foreign branch of any such entity, or any person in the United States.
U.S. person
means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including any foreign branch of any such entity, or any person in the United States.

Subpart C—Prohibited Transactions and Other Prohibited Activities


§ 850.301   Undertaking a prohibited transaction.

A U.S. person may not engage in a prohibited transaction unless an exemption for that transaction has been granted under § 850.502.

§ 850.302   Actions of a controlled foreign entity.

(a) A U.S. person shall take all reasonable steps to prohibit and prevent any transaction by its controlled foreign entity that would be a prohibited transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person.
(b) If a controlled foreign entity engages in a transaction that would be a prohibited transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person, in determining whether the relevant U.S. person took all reasonable steps to prohibit and prevent such transaction, the Department of the Treasury will consider, among other factors, any of the following with respect to a U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity:
(1) The execution of agreements with respect to compliance with this part between the subject U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity;
(2) The existence and exercise of governance or shareholder rights by the U.S. person with respect to the controlled foreign entity, where applicable;
(3) The existence and implementation of periodic training and internal reporting requirements by the U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity with respect to compliance with this part;
(4) The implementation of appropriate and documented internal controls, including internal policies, procedures, or guidelines that are periodically reviewed internally, by the U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity; and
(5) Implementation of a documented testing and/or auditing process of internal policies, procedures, or guidelines.
Note 1 to § 850.302:
Findings of violations of this section and decisions related to enforcement and penalties will be made based on a consideration of the totality of relevant facts and circumstances, including whether the U.S. person has taken the steps described in paragraph (b) of this section and whether such steps were reasonable in light of the relevant facts and circumstances.

§ 850.303   Knowingly directing an otherwise prohibited transaction.

(a) A U.S. person is prohibited from knowingly directing a transaction by a non-U.S. person that the U.S. person knows at the time of the transaction would be a prohibited transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person. For purposes of this section, a U.S. person “knowingly directs” a transaction when the U.S. person has authority, individually or as part of a group, to make or substantially participate in decisions on behalf of a non-U.S. person, and exercises that authority to direct, order, decide upon, or approve a transaction. Such authority exists when a U.S. person is an officer, director, or otherwise possesses executive responsibilities at a non-U.S. person.
(b) A U.S. person that has the authority described in paragraph (a) of this section and recuses themself from each of the following activities will not be considered to have exercised their authority to direct, order, decide upon, or approve a transaction:
(1) Participating in formal approval and decision-making processes related to the transaction, including making a recommendation;
(2) Reviewing, editing, commenting on, approving, and signing relevant transaction documents; and
(3) Engaging in negotiations with the investment target (or, as applicable, the relevant transaction counterparty, such as a joint venture partner).

Subpart D—Notifiable Transactions and Other Notifiable Activities


§ 850.401   Undertaking a notifiable transaction.

A U.S. person that undertakes a notifiable transaction shall file a notification of that transaction with the Department of the Treasury pursuant to § 850.404.

§ 850.402   Notification of actions of a controlled foreign entity.

A U.S. person shall file a notification with the Department of the Treasury pursuant to § 850.404 with respect to any transaction by a controlled foreign entity of that U.S. person that would be a notifiable transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person.

§ 850.403   Notification of post-transaction knowledge.

A U.S. person that acquires actual knowledge after the completion date of a transaction of a fact or circumstance such that the transaction would have been a covered transaction if such knowledge had been possessed by the relevant U.S. person at the time of the transaction shall promptly, and in no event later than 30 calendar days following the acquisition of such knowledge, submit a notification pursuant to § 850.404. This requirement applies regardless of whether the transaction would have been a notifiable transaction or a prohibited transaction.
Note 1 to § 850.403:
A U.S. person's submission of a notification pursuant to this section shall not preclude a finding by the Department of the Treasury that as a factual matter the U.S. person had relevant knowledge of the transaction's status at the time of the transaction.

§ 850.404   Procedures for notifications.

(a) A U.S. person that has an obligation under § 850.401, § 850.402, or § 850.403 shall file an electronic copy of the notification of the transaction with the Department of the Treasury including the information set out in § 850.405 and the certification referred to in § 850.203. The U.S. person shall follow the electronic filing instructions posted on the Department of the Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website. No communications or submissions other than those described in this section shall constitute the filing of a notification for purposes of this part.
(b) The Department of the Treasury may contact a U.S. person that has filed a notification with questions or document requests related to the transaction or compliance with this part. The U.S. person shall respond to any such questions or requests within the time frame and in the manner specified by the Department of the Treasury. Information and other documents provided by the U.S. person to the Department of the Treasury after the filing of the notification under this section shall be deemed part of the notification and shall be subject to the certification referred to in § 850.203.
(c) A U.S. person shall file a notification under § 850.401 or § 850.402 with the Department of the Treasury no later than 30 calendar days following the completion date of a notifiable transaction. A U.S. person shall file a notification required under § 850.403 with the Department of the Treasury no later than 30 calendar days after it acquires the knowledge referred to in § 850.403.
(d) If a U.S. person files a notification prior to the completion date of the notifiable transaction, the U.S. person shall update such notification no later than 30 calendar days following the completion date of the notifiable transaction if information in the original filing has materially changed.
(e) A U.S. person shall inform the Department of the Treasury in writing no later than 30 calendar days following the acquisition of previously unavailable information required under § 850.405.
Note 1 to § 850.404:
While the Department of the Treasury may engage with the U.S. person following notification, it is also possible the U.S. person will receive no communication from the Department of the Treasury other than an electronic acknowledgment of receipt after notification is submitted.

§ 850.405   Content of notifications.

(a) A U.S. person that has an obligation under this part to file a notification shall provide the information set forth in this section, which must be accurate and complete in all material respects, subject to paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) A notification shall provide, as applicable:
(1) The contact information of a representative of the U.S. person filing the notification who is available to communicate with the Department of the Treasury about the notification including such representative's name, title, email address, mailing address, phone number, and employer;
(2) A description of the U.S. person, including name, and as applicable, principal place of business and place of incorporation or legal organization, company address, website, and, if the U.S. person is an entity, such U.S. person's ultimate owner;
(3) A post-transaction organizational chart of the U.S. person that includes the name and principal place of business and place of incorporation or legal organization of the intermediate and ultimate parent entities of the U.S. person, identifies the U.S. person's relationship with any controlled foreign entity or entities of the U.S. person, and identifies the covered foreign person and other relevant persons involved in the transaction;
(4) A brief description of the commercial rationale for the transaction;
(5) A brief description of why the U.S. person has determined the transaction is a covered transaction that includes a discussion of the nature of the transaction, its structure, reference to the paragraph of § 850.210(a) that best describes the transaction type, and whether the notification is being submitted pursuant to § 850.401, § 850.402, or § 850.403.
(6) The status of the transaction, including the actual or expected completion date of the transaction;
(7) The total transaction value in U.S. dollars or U.S. dollar equivalent, an explanation of how the transaction value was determined, and a description of the consideration for the transaction (including cash, securities, other assets, and debt forgiveness);
(8) The aggregate equity interest, voting interest, board seats (or equivalent holdings) of the U.S. person and its affiliates in the covered foreign person (or in the joint venture, as applicable) following the completion date of the transaction, including a description of any agreements or commitments for future investment or options to make future investments in the covered foreign person (or joint venture);
(9) Information about the covered foreign person, including its name, and as applicable, principal place of business and place of incorporation or legal organization, company address, website, and if the covered foreign person is an entity, such covered foreign person's ultimate owner, and the full legal names and titles of each officer, director, and other member of management of the covered foreign person, and a post-transaction organizational chart of the covered foreign person that includes the name and principal place of business and place of incorporation or legal organization of the intermediate and ultimate parent entities of the covered foreign person;
(10) Identification and description of each of the covered activity or activities undertaken by the covered foreign person that makes the transaction a covered transaction, as well as a brief description of the known end use(s) and end user(s) of the covered foreign person's technology, products, or services;
(11) A statement describing the attributes that cause the entity to be a covered foreign person, and any other relevant information regarding the covered foreign person and covered activity or activities;
(12) If a transaction involves a covered activity identified in § 850.217(a), (b), or (c), identification of the technology node(s) at which any applicable product is produced; and
(13) If the notification is required under § 850.403:
(i) Identification of the fact or circumstance of which the U.S. person acquired knowledge post-transaction;
(ii) The date upon which the U.S. person acquired such knowledge;
(iii) A statement explaining why the U.S. person did not possess or obtain such knowledge at the time of the transaction; and
(iv) A description of any pre-transaction diligence undertaken by the U.S. person, including, as applicable, any steps described in § 850.104(c).
(c) The U.S. person shall maintain a copy of the notification filed and supporting documentation for a period of ten years from the date of the filing. Such supporting documentation shall include, as applicable, any pitch decks, marketing letters, and offering memorandums; transaction documents including side letters and investment agreements; and due diligence materials related to the transaction. The U.S. person shall make all supporting documentation available upon request by the Department of the Treasury.
(d) If the U.S. person does not provide responses to the information required in paragraph (b) of this section, the U.S. person shall provide sufficient explanation for why the information is unavailable or otherwise cannot be obtained and explain the U.S. person's efforts to obtain such information. If such information subsequently becomes available, the U.S. person shall provide such information to the Department of the Treasury promptly, and no later than 30 calendar days following the availability of such information.

§ 850.406   Notice of material omission or inaccuracy.

A person who has made any representation, statement, or certification subject to this part shall inform the Department of the Treasury in writing promptly, and in no event later than 30 calendar days after learning of a material omission or inaccuracy in such representation, statement, or certification.

Subpart E—Exceptions and Exemptions


§ 850.501   Excepted transaction.

A transaction that would be either a prohibited transaction or a notifiable transaction if engaged in by a U.S. person but for this section is not a prohibited transaction or a notifiable transaction, as applicable, if the conditions set forth in this section are met. In that case, the transaction is an excepted transaction. The following transactions are excepted transactions:
(a)(1) An investment by a U.S. person:
(i) In any publicly traded security, with “security” as defined in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, at 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10), denominated in any currency, and that trades on a securities exchange or through the method of trading that is commonly referred to as “over-the-counter,” in any jurisdiction;
(ii) In a security issued by:
(A) Any “investment company” as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, at 15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1), that is registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, such as index funds, mutual funds, or exchange traded funds; or
(B) Any company that has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, at 15 U.S.C. 80a-53;
(iii) Made as a limited partner or equivalent in a venture capital fund, private equity fund, fund of funds, or other pooled investment fund other than as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section where:
(A) The limited partner or equivalent's committed capital is not more than $2,000,000, aggregated across any investment and co-investment vehicles of the fund; or
(B) The limited partner or equivalent has secured a binding contractual assurance that its capital in the fund will not be used to engage in a transaction that would be a prohibited transaction or notifiable transaction, as applicable, if engaged in by a U.S. person; or
(iv) In a derivative, so long as such derivative does not confer the right to acquire equity, any rights associated with equity, or any assets in or of a covered foreign person.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an investment is not an excepted transaction if it affords the U.S. person rights beyond standard minority shareholder protections with respect to the covered foreign person. Such standard minority shareholder protections include:
(i) The power to prevent the sale or pledge of all or substantially all of the assets of an entity or a voluntary filing for bankruptcy or liquidation;
(ii) The power to prevent an entity from entering into contracts with majority investors or their affiliates;
(iii) The power to prevent an entity from guaranteeing the obligations of majority investors or their affiliates;
(iv) The right to purchase an additional interest in an entity to prevent the dilution of an investor's pro rata interest in that entity in the event that the entity issues additional instruments conveying interests in the entity;
(v) The power to prevent the change of existing legal rights or preferences of the particular class of stock held by minority investors, as provided in the relevant corporate documents governing such stock; and
(vi) The power to prevent the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, constituent agreement, or other organizational documents of an entity with respect to the matters described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section;
(b) The acquisition by a U.S. person of equity or other interests in an entity held by one or more persons of a country of concern; provided that:
provided that:
(1) The U.S. person is acquiring all equity or other interests in such entity held by all persons of a country of concern; and
(2) Following such acquisition, the entity does not constitute a covered foreign person;
(c) A transaction that, but for this paragraph, would be a covered transaction between a U.S. person and its controlled foreign entity that supports operations that are not covered activities or that maintains covered activities that the controlled foreign entity was engaged in prior to January 2, 2025;
(d) A transaction made after January 2, 2025, pursuant to a binding, uncalled capital commitment entered into before January 2, 2025;
(e) The acquisition of a voting interest in a covered foreign person by a U.S. person upon default or other condition involving a loan or a similar financing arrangement, where the loan was made by a syndicate of banks in a loan participation where the U.S. person lender(s) in the syndicate:
(1) Cannot on its own initiate any action vis-à-vis the debtor; and
(2) Is not the syndication agent;
(f) The receipt of employment compensation by an individual in the form of an award of equity or the grant of an option to purchase equity in a covered foreign person, or the exercise of such option; or
(g)(1) A transaction that is:
(i) With or involving a person of a country or territory outside of the United States designated by the Secretary, after taking into account whether the country or territory is addressing national security risks substantially similar to those described in the Order and related to outbound investment; and
(ii) Of a type for which the Secretary has determined that the related national security concerns are likely to be adequately addressed by measures taken or that may be taken by the government of the relevant country or territory.
(2) Prior to making a designation or determination under this paragraph (g), the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies.
(3) The Secretary's designations and determinations under paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be made available through public notice.
(4) The Secretary may rescind a designation or determination under paragraph (g)(1) of this section if the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, Secretary of Commerce, and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, determines that such a rescission is appropriate. Any rescission shall be made available through public notice.

§ 850.502   National interest exemption.

(a) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of State, and the heads of relevant agencies, as appropriate, may determine that a covered transaction is in the national interest of the United States and therefore is exempt from applicable provisions in subparts C and D of this part (excluding §§ 850.406, 850.603, and 850.604). Such a determination may be made following a request by a U.S. person on its own behalf or on behalf of its controlled foreign entity.
(b) Any determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be based on a consideration of the totality of the relevant facts and circumstances and may be informed by, among other considerations, the transaction's effect on critical U.S. supply chain needs; domestic production needs in the United States for projected national defense requirements; United States' technological leadership globally in areas affecting U.S. national security; and impact on U.S. national security if the U.S. person is prohibited from undertaking the transaction.
(c) A U.S. person seeking a national interest exemption shall submit relevant information to the Department of the Treasury regarding the transaction and shall articulate the basis for the request, including the U.S. person's analysis of the transaction's potential impact on the national interest of the United States and the certification referred to in § 850.203. Information and other documents submitted by the U.S. person to the Department of the Treasury under this section shall be deemed part of the national interest exemption request. The U.S. person shall follow the instructions posted on the Department of the Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website. No communications or submissions other than those described in this section shall constitute a request for a national interest exemption. The Department of the Treasury may request additional information that may include some or all of the information required under § 850.405.
(d) A determination that a covered transaction is exempt under this section may be subject to binding conditions.
(e) No determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be valid unless provided to the subject U.S. person in writing and signed by the Assistant Secretary or Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Investment Security.
Note 1 to § 850.502:
A process and related information for exemption requests will be made available on the Department of the Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website.

§ 850.503   IEEPA statutory exception.

Conduct referred to in 50 U.S.C. 1702(b) shall not be regulated or prohibited, directly or indirectly, by this part.

Subpart F—Violations


§ 850.601   Taking actions prohibited by this part.

The taking of any action prohibited by this part is a violation of this part.

§ 850.602   Failure to fulfill requirements.

Failure to take any action required by this part, and within the time frame and in the manner specified by this part, as applicable, is a violation of this part.

§ 850.603   Misrepresentation, concealment, and omission of facts.

With respect to any information submission to or communication with the Department of the Treasury pursuant to any provision of this part, the making of any materially false or misleading representation, statement, or certification, or falsifying, concealing or omitting any material fact is a violation of this part.

§ 850.604   Evasions; attempts; causing violations; conspiracies.

(a) Any action on or after the effective date of this part that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate the prohibitions set forth in this part is prohibited.

Subpart G—Penalties and Disclosures


§ 850.701   Penalties.

(a) Section 206 of IEEPA applies to any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary pursuant to this part or otherwise under IEEPA.
(1) A civil penalty may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA, including any provision of this part in an amount not to exceed the greater of:
(i) $250,000, as such amount is adjusted pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended (Pub. L. 101-410, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note); or
(ii) An amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.
(2) A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, willfully conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of a violation, attempt to violate, conspiracy to violate, or causing of a violation of any order, regulation, or prohibition issued under IEEPA, including any provision of this part, shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.
(b) The Secretary may refer potential criminal violations of the Order, or of this part, to the Attorney General.
(c) The civil penalties provided for in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended (Pub. L. 101-410, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note). Notice of the maximum penalty which may be assessed under this section will be published in the Federal Register and on Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website on an annual basis on or before January 15 of each calendar year.
Federal Register
and on Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website on an annual basis on or before January 15 of each calendar year.
(d) The criminal penalties provided for in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.
(e) The penalties available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, and forfeiture of property, available under other applicable law.
(f) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government of the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact; makes any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.

§ 850.702   Administrative collection; referral to United States Department of Justice.

The imposition of a monetary penalty under this part creates a debt due to the U.S. Government. The Department of the Treasury may take action to collect the penalty assessed if not paid. In addition or instead, the matter may be referred to the Department of Justice for appropriate action to recover the penalty.

§ 850.703   Divestment.

(a) The Secretary, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, as appropriate, may take any action authorized under IEEPA to nullify, void, or otherwise compel the divestment of any prohibited transaction entered into after the effective date of this part.
(b) The Secretary may refer any action taken under paragraph (a) of this section to the Attorney General to seek appropriate relief to enforce such action.

§ 850.704   Voluntary self-disclosure.

(a) Any person who has engaged in conduct that may constitute a violation of this part may submit a voluntary self-disclosure of that conduct to the Department of the Treasury.
(b) In determining the appropriate response to any violation, the Department of the Treasury will consider the submission and the timeliness of any voluntary self-disclosure.
(c) In assessing the timeliness of a voluntary self-disclosure, the Department of the Treasury will consider whether it has learned of the conduct prior to the voluntary self-disclosure. The Department of the Treasury may consider disclosure of a violation to another government agency other than the Department of the Treasury as a voluntary self-disclosure based on a case-by-case assessment.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, identification to the Department of the Treasury of conduct that may constitute a violation of this part may not be assessed to be a voluntary self-disclosure in one or more of the following circumstances:
(1) A third party has provided a prior disclosure to the Department of the Treasury of the conduct or similar conduct related to the same pattern or practice, regardless of whether the disclosing person knew of the third party's prior disclosure;
(2) The disclosure includes materially false or misleading information;
(3) The disclosure, when considered along with supplemental information timely provided by the disclosing person, is materially incomplete;
(4) The disclosure is not self-initiated, including when the disclosure results from a suggestion or order of a Federal or state agency or official;
(5) The disclosure is a response to an administrative subpoena or other inquiry from the Department of the Treasury or another government agency;
(6) The disclosure is made about the conduct of an entity by an individual in such entity without the authorization of such entity's senior management; or
(7) The filing is made pursuant to a required notification under this part, including § 850.403 or § 850.406.
(e) A voluntary self-disclosure to the Department of the Treasury must take the form of a written notice describing the conduct that may constitute a violation and each of the persons involved. A voluntary self-disclosure must include, or be followed within a reasonable period of time by, a report of sufficient detail to afford a complete understanding of the conduct that may constitute the violation. A person making a voluntary self-disclosure must respond in a timely manner to any follow-up inquiries by the Department of the Treasury.

Subpart H—Provision and Handling of Information


§ 850.801   Confidentiality.

(a) Except to the extent required by law or otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, information or documentary materials not otherwise publicly available that are submitted to the Department of the Treasury under this part shall not be disclosed to the public.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, except to the extent prohibited by law, the Department of the Treasury may disclose information or documentary materials that are not otherwise publicly available, subject to appropriate confidentiality and classification requirements, when such information or documentary materials are:
(1) Relevant to any judicial or administrative action or proceeding;
(2) Provided to Congress or to any duly authorized committee or subcommittee of Congress; or
(3) Provided to any domestic governmental entity, or to any foreign governmental entity of a United States partner or ally, where the information or documentary materials are important to the national security analysis or actions of such governmental entity or the Department of the Treasury.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Department of the Treasury may disclose to third parties information or documentary materials that are not otherwise publicly available when the person who submitted or filed the information or documentary materials has consented to its disclosure to such third parties.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Department of the Treasury may disclose information that is not already publicly available, when such disclosure of information is determined by the Secretary to be in the national interest. Any determination under this paragraph (d) may not be delegated below the level of the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
(e) The Department of the Treasury may use the information gathered pursuant to this part to fulfill its obligations under the Order, which may include publication of anonymized data.

§ 850.802   Language of information.

All materials or information filed with the Department of the Treasury under this part shall be submitted in English. If supplementary or additional materials were originally written in a foreign language, they shall be submitted in their original language. Where English versions of those documents exist, they shall also be submitted.

Subpart I—Other Provisions


§ 850.901   Delegation of authorities of the Secretary of the Treasury.

Any action that the Secretary is authorized to take pursuant to the Order and any further executive orders relating to the national emergency declared in the Order may be taken by the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Investment Security or their designee or by any other person to whom the Secretary has delegated the authority so to act, as appropriate.

§ 850.902   Amendment, modification, or revocation.

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, and in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, the Secretary may amend, modify, or revoke provisions of this part at any time.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, any instructions, orders, forms, regulations, or rulings issued pursuant to this part may be amended, modified, or revoked at any time.
(c) Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment, modification, or revocation of any provision in or appendix to this part does not affect any act done or omitted, or any civil or criminal proceeding commenced or pending, prior to such amendment, modification, or revocation. All penalties, forfeitures, and liabilities under any such instructions, orders, forms, regulations, or rulings pursuant to this part continue and may be enforced as if such amendment, modification, or revocation had not been made.

§ 850.903   Severability.

The provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any of the provisions of this part, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.

§ 850.904   Reports to be furnished on demand.

(a) Any person is required to furnish under oath, in the form of reports or otherwise, at any time as may be required by the Department of the Treasury, complete information regarding any act or transaction subject to the provisions of this part, regardless of whether such act or transaction is effected pursuant to a national interest exemption under § 850.502. Except as provided otherwise, the Department of the Treasury may, through any person or agency, conduct investigations, hold hearings, administer oaths, examine witnesses, receive evidence, take depositions, and require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of any books, contracts, letters, papers, and other hard copy or electronic documents relating to any matter under investigation, regardless of whether any report has been required or filed under this section.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term document includes any written, recorded, or graphic matter or other means of preserving thought or expression (including in electronic format), and all tangible things stored in any medium from which information can be processed, transcribed, or obtained directly or indirectly.
document
includes any written, recorded, or graphic matter or other means of preserving thought or expression (including in electronic format), and all tangible things stored in any medium from which information can be processed, transcribed, or obtained directly or indirectly.
(c) Persons providing documents to the Department of the Treasury pursuant to this section must do so in a usable format agreed upon by the Department of the Treasury.

PARTS 851-899 [RESERVED]


CHAPTER IX—FEDERAL CLAIMS COLLECTION STANDARDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY—DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE)


PART 900—SCOPE OF STANDARDS

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3711.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3711.
[Source:65 FR 70395, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 70395, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

§ 900.1   Prescription of standards.

(a) The Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney General of the United States are issuing the regulations in parts 900-904 of this chapter under the authority contained in 31 U.S.C. 3711(d)(2). The regulations in this chapter prescribe standards for Federal agency use in the administrative collection, offset, compromise, and the suspension or termination of collection activity for civil claims for money, funds, or property, as defined by 31 U.S.C. 3701(b), unless specific Federal agency statutes or regulations apply to such activities or, as provided for by Title 11 of the United States Code, when the claims involve bankruptcy. Federal agencies include agencies of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Government, including Government corporations. The regulations in this chapter also prescribe standards for referring debts to the Department of Justice for litigation. Additional guidance is contained in the Office of Management and Budget's Circular A-129 (Revised), “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables,” the Department of the Treasury's “Managing Federal Receivables,” and other publications concerning debt collection and debt management. These publications are available from the Debt Management Services, Financial Management Service, Department of the Treasury, 401 14th Street SW., Room 151, Washington, DC 20227.
(b) Additional rules governing centralized administrative offset and the transfer of delinquent debt to the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) or Treasury-designated debt collection centers for collection (cross-servicing) under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Public Law 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321, 1358 (April 26, 1996), are issued in separate regulations by Treasury. Rules governing the use of certain debt collection tools created under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, such as administrative wage garnishment, also are issued in separate regulations by Treasury. See generally 31 CFR part 285.
(c) Agencies are not limited to the remedies contained in parts 900-904 of this chapter and are encouraged to use all authorized remedies, including alternative dispute resolution and arbitration, to collect civil claims, to the extent that such remedies are not inconsistent with the Federal Claims Collection Act, as amended, Public Law 89-508, 80 Stat. 308 (July 19, 1966), the Debt Collection Act of 1982, Public Law 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749 (October 25, 1982), the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, or other relevant statutes. The regulations in this chapter are not intended to impair agencies' common law rights to collect debts.
(d) Standards and policies regarding the classification of debt for accounting purposes (for example, write off of uncollectible debt) are contained in the Office of Management and Budget's Circular A-129 (Revised), “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables.”

§ 900.2   Definitions and construction.

(a) For the purposes of the standards in this chapter, the terms “claim” and “debt” are synonymous and interchangeable. They refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms “claim” and “debt” include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(b) A debt is “delinquent” if it has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement), unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
(c) In parts 900-904 of this chapter, words in the plural form shall include the singular and vice versa, and words signifying the masculine gender shall include the feminine and vice versa. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude matters not listed but do include matters that are in the same general class.
(d) Recoupment is a special method for adjusting debts arising under the same transaction or occurrence. For example, obligations arising under the same contract generally are subject to recoupment.
(e) For purposes of the standards in this chapter, unless otherwise stated, “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's delegate.

§ 900.3   Antitrust, fraud, and tax and interagency claims excluded.

(a) The standards in parts 900-904 of this chapter relating to compromise, suspension, and termination of collection activity do not apply to any debt based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or to any debt involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim. Only the Department of Justice has the authority to compromise, suspend, or terminate collection activity on such claims. The standards in parts 900-904 of this chapter relating to the administrative collection of claims do apply, but only to the extent authorized by the Department of Justice in a particular case. Upon identification of a claim based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or any claim involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim, agencies shall promptly refer the case to the Department of Justice for action. At its discretion, the Department of Justice may return the claim to the forwarding agency for further handling in accordance with the standards in parts 900-904 of this chapter.
(b) Parts 900-904 of this chapter do not apply to tax debts.
(c) Parts 900-904 of this chapter do not apply to claims between Federal agencies. Federal agencies should attempt to resolve interagency claims by negotiation in accordance with Executive Order 12146 (3 CFR, 1980 Comp., pp. 409-412).

§ 900.4   Compromise, waiver, or disposition under other statutes not precluded.

Nothing in parts 900-904 of this chapter precludes agency disposition of any claim under statutes and implementing regulations other than subchapter II of chapter 37 of Title 31 of the United States Code (Claims of the United States Government) and the standards in this chapter. See, e.g., the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, Public Law 87-693, 76 Stat. 593 (September 25, 1962) (codified at 42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), and applicable regulations, 28 CFR part 43. In such cases, the laws and regulations that are specifically applicable to claims collection activities of a particular agency generally take precedence over parts 900-904 of this chapter.
et seq.
), and applicable regulations, 28 CFR part 43. In such cases, the laws and regulations that are specifically applicable to claims collection activities of a particular agency generally take precedence over parts 900-904 of this chapter.

§ 900.5   Form of payment.

Claims may be paid in the form of money or, when a contractual basis exists, the Government may demand the return of specific property or the performance of specific services.

§ 900.6   Subdivision of claims not authorized.

Debts may not be subdivided to avoid the monetary ceiling established by 31 U.S.C. 3711(a)(2). A debtor's liability arising from a particular transaction or contract shall be considered a single debt in determining whether the debt is one of less than $100,000 (excluding interest, penalties, and administrative costs) or such higher amount as the Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe for purposes of compromise or suspension or termination of collection activity.

§ 900.7   Required administrative proceedings.

Agencies are not required to omit, foreclose, or duplicate administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.

§ 900.8   No private rights created.

The standards in this chapter do not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by a party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any other person, nor shall the failure of an agency to comply with any of the provisions of parts 900-904 of this chapter be available to any debtor as a defense.

PART 901—STANDARDS FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE COLLECTION OF CLAIMS

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3701, 3711, 3716, 3717, 3718, and 3720B.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3701, 3711, 3716, 3717, 3718, and 3720B.
[Source:65 FR 70396, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 70396, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

§ 901.1   Aggressive agency collection activity.

(a) Federal agencies shall aggressively collect all debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, that agency. Collection activities shall be undertaken promptly with follow-up action taken as necessary. Nothing contained in parts 900-904 of this chapter requires the Department of Justice, Treasury, or other Treasury-designated debt collection centers, to duplicate collection activities previously undertaken by other agencies or to perform collection activities that other agencies should have undertaken.
(b) Debts referred or transferred to Treasury, or Treasury-designated debt collection centers under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), shall be serviced, collected, or compromised, or the collection action will be suspended or terminated, in accordance with the statutory requirements and authorities applicable to the collection of such debts.
(c) Agencies shall cooperate with one another in their debt collection activities.
(d) Agencies should consider referring debts that are less than 180 days delinquent to Treasury or to Treasury-designated “debt collection centers” to accomplish efficient, cost effective debt collection. Treasury is a debt collection center, is authorized to designate other Federal agencies as debt collection centers based on their performance in collecting delinquent debts, and may withdraw such designations. Referrals to debt collection centers shall be at the discretion of, and for a time period acceptable to, the Secretary. Referrals may be for servicing, collection, compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action.
(e) Agencies shall transfer to the Secretary any debt that has been delinquent for a period of 180 days or more so that the Secretary may take appropriate action to collect the debt or terminate collection action. See 31 CFR 285.12 (Transfer of Debts to Treasury for Collection). This requirement does not apply to any debt that:
(1) Is in litigation or foreclosure;
(2) Will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program;
(3) Has been referred to a private collection contractor for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary;
(4) Is at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to the Secretary (see paragraph (d) of this section);
(5) Will be collected under internal offset procedures within three years after the debt first became delinquent; or
(6) Is exempt from this requirement based on a determination by the Secretary that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interest of the United States. Agencies may request that the Secretary exempt specific classes of debts.
(f) Agencies operating Treasury-designated debt collection centers are authorized to charge a fee for services rendered regarding referred or transferred debts. The fee may be paid out of amounts collected and may be added to the debt as an administrative cost (see § 901.10).

§ 901.2   Demand for payment.

(a) Written demand as described in paragraph (b) of this section shall be made promptly upon a debtor of the United States in terms that inform the debtor of the consequences of failing to cooperate with the agency to resolve the debt. The specific content, timing, and number of demand letters shall depend upon the type and amount of the debt and the debtor's response, if any, to the agency's letters or telephone calls. Generally, one demand letter should suffice. In determining the timing of the demand letter(s), agencies should give due regard to the need to refer debts promptly to the Department of Justice for litigation, in accordance with § 904.1 of this chapter or otherwise. When necessary to protect the Government's interest (for example, to prevent the running of a statute of limitations), written demand may be preceded by other appropriate actions under parts 900-904 of this chapter, including immediate referral for litigation.
(b) Demand letters shall inform the debtor of:
(1) The basis for the indebtedness and the rights, if any, the debtor may have to seek review within the agency;
(2) The applicable standards for imposing any interest, penalties, or administrative costs;
(3) The date by which payment should be made to avoid late charges (i.e. interest, penalties, and administrative costs) and enforced collection, which generally should not be more than 30 days from the date that the demand letter is mailed or hand-delivered; and
(4) The name, address, and phone number of a contact person or office within the agency.
(c) Agencies should exercise care to ensure that demand letters are mailed or hand-delivered on the same day that they are dated. There is no prescribed format for demand letters. Agencies should utilize demand letters and procedures that will lead to the earliest practicable determination of whether the debt can be resolved administratively or must be referred for litigation.
(d) Agencies should include in demand letters such items as the agency's willingness to discuss alternative methods of payment; its policies with respect to the use of credit bureaus, debt collection centers, and collection agencies; the agency's remedies to enforce payment of the debt (including assessment of interest, administrative costs and penalties, administrative garnishment, the use of collection agencies, Federal salary offset, tax refund offset, administrative offset, and litigation); the requirement that any debt delinquent for more than 180 days be transferred to the Department of the Treasury for collection; and, depending on applicable statutory authority, the debtor's entitlement to consideration of a waiver.
(e) Agencies should respond promptly to communications from debtors, within 30 days whenever feasible, and should advise debtors who dispute debts to furnish available evidence to support their contentions.
(f) Prior to the initiation of the demand process or at any time during or after completion of the demand process, if an agency determines to pursue, or is required to pursue, offset, the procedures applicable to offset should be followed (see § 901.3). The availability of funds or money for debt satisfaction by offset and the agency's determination to pursue collection by offset shall release the agency from the necessity of further compliance with paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(g) Prior to referring a debt for litigation, agencies should advise each person determined to be liable for the debt that, unless the debt can be collected administratively, litigation may be initiated. This notification should comply with Executive Order 12988 (3 CFR, 1996 Comp., pp. 157-163) and may be given as part of a demand letter under paragraph (b) of this section or in a separate document. Litigation counsel for the Government should be advised that this notice has been given.
(h) When an agency learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, before proceeding with further collection action, the agency should immediately seek legal advice from its agency counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code on any pending or contemplated collection activities. Unless the agency determines that the automatic stay imposed at the time of filing pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 362 has been lifted or is no longer in effect, in most cases collection activity against the debtor should stop immediately.
(1) After seeking legal advice, a proof of claim should be filed in most cases with the bankruptcy court or the Trustee. Agencies should refer to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 106 relating to the consequences on sovereign immunity of filing a proof of claim.
(2) If the agency is a secured creditor, it may seek relief from the automatic stay regarding its security, subject to the provisions and requirements of 11 U.S.C. 362.
(3) Offset is stayed in most cases by the automatic stay. However, agencies should seek legal advice from their agency counsel to determine whether their payments to the debtor and payments of other agencies available for offset may be frozen by the agency until relief from the automatic stay can be obtained from the bankruptcy court. Agencies also should seek legal advice from their agency counsel to determine whether recoupment is available.

§ 901.3   Collection by administrative offset.

(a) Scope. (1) The term “administrative offset” has the meaning provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1).
Scope.
(1) The term “administrative offset” has the meaning provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1).
(2) This section does not apply to:
(i) Debts arising under the Social Security Act, except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 404;
(ii) Payments made under the Social Security Act, except as provided for in 31 U.S.C. 3716(c) (see 31 CFR 285.4, Federal Benefit Offset);
(iii) Debts arising under, or payments made under, the Internal Revenue Code (see 31 CFR 285.2, Tax Refund Offset) or the tariff laws of the United States;
(iv) Offsets against Federal salaries to the extent these standards are inconsistent with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716 (see 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and 31 CFR 285.7, Federal Salary Offset);
(v) Offsets under 31 U.S.C. 3728 against a judgment obtained by a debtor against the United States;
(vi) Offsets or recoupments under common law, State law, or Federal statutes specifically prohibiting offsets or recoupments of particular types of debts; or
(vii) Offsets in the course of judicial proceedings, including bankruptcy.
(3) Unless otherwise provided for by contract or law, debts or payments that are not subject to administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 may be collected by administrative offset under the common law or other applicable statutory authority.
(4) Unless otherwise provided by law, administrative offset of payments under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3716 to collect a debt may not be conducted more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right to collect the debt were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials of the Government who were charged with the responsibility to discover and collect such debts. This limitation does not apply to debts reduced to a judgment.
(5) In bankruptcy cases, agencies should seek legal advice from their agency counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 106, 362, and 553, on pending or contemplated collections by offset.
(b) Mandatory centralized administrative offset. (1) Creditor agencies are required to refer past due, legally enforceable nontax debts which are over 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for collection by centralized administrative offset. Debts which are less than 180 days delinquent also may be referred to the Secretary for this purpose. See § 901.3(b)(5) for debt certification requirements.
Mandatory centralized administrative offset.
(1) Creditor agencies are required to refer past due, legally enforceable nontax debts which are over 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for collection by centralized administrative offset. Debts which are less than 180 days delinquent also may be referred to the Secretary for this purpose. See § 901.3(b)(5) for debt certification requirements.
(2) The names and taxpayer identifying numbers (TINs) of debtors who owe debts referred to the Secretary as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be compared to the names and TINs on payments to be made by Federal disbursing officials. Federal disbursing officials include disbursing officials of Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, other Government corporations, and disbursing officials of the United States designated by the Secretary. When the name and TIN of a debtor match the name and TIN of a payee and all other requirements for offset have been met, the payment will be offset to satisfy the debt.
(3) Federal disbursing officials will notify the debtor/payee in writing that an offset has occurred to satisfy, in part or in full, a past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt. The notice shall include a description of the type and amount of the payment from which the offset was taken, the amount of offset that was taken, the identity of the creditor agency requesting the offset, and a contact point within the creditor agency who will respond to questions regarding the offset.
(4)(i) Before referring a delinquent debt to the Secretary for administrative offset, agencies must have prescribed administrative offset regulations consistent with this section or have adopted this section without change by cross-reference.
(ii) Such regulations shall provide that offsets may be initiated only after the debtor:
(A) Has been sent written notice of the type and amount of the debt, the intention of the agency to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716; and
(B) The debtor has been given:
(1) The opportunity to inspect and copy agency records related to the debt;
1
) The opportunity to inspect and copy agency records related to the debt;
(2) The opportunity for a review within the agency of the determination of indebtedness; and
2
) The opportunity for a review within the agency of the determination of indebtedness; and
(3) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.
3
) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.
(iii) Agency regulations may provide for the omission of the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section when:
(A) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;
(B) The debt arises under a contract as set forth in Cecile Industries, Inc. v. Cheney, 995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets accommodated by the Contracts Disputes Act); or
Cecile Industries, Inc.
v.
Cheney,
995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets accommodated by the Contracts Disputes Act); or
(C) In the case of non-centralized administrative offsets conducted under paragraph (c) of this section, the agency first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, the agency shall give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and shall promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.
(iv) When an agency previously has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt (see, e.g., § 901.2), the agency need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before administrative offset may be initiated.
(5) Agencies referring delinquent debts to the Secretary must certify, in a form acceptable to the Secretary, that:
(i) The debt(s) is (are) past due and legally enforceable; and
(ii) The agency has complied with all due process requirements under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and the agency's regulations.
(6) Payments that are prohibited by law from being offset are exempt from centralized administrative offset. The Secretary shall exempt payments under means-tested programs from centralized administrative offset when requested in writing by the head of the payment certifying or authorizing agency. Also, the Secretary may exempt other classes of payments from centralized offset upon the written request of the head of the payment certifying or authorizing agency.
(7) Benefit payments made under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 921 et seq.), and any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than tier 2 benefits), may be offset only in accordance with Treasury regulations, issued in consultation with the Social Security Administration, the Railroad Retirement Board, and the Office of Management and Budget. See 31 CFR 285.4.
et seq.
), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 921
et seq.
), and any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than tier 2 benefits), may be offset only in accordance with Treasury regulations, issued in consultation with the Social Security Administration, the Railroad Retirement Board, and the Office of Management and Budget. See 31 CFR 285.4.
(8) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), the Secretary may waive the provisions of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 concerning matching agreements and post-match notification and verification (5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and (p)) for centralized administrative offset upon receipt of a certification from a creditor agency that the due process requirements enumerated in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. The certification of a debt in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section will satisfy this requirement. If such a waiver is granted, only the Data Integrity Board of the Department of the Treasury is required to oversee any matching activities, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(g). This waiver authority does not apply to offsets conducted under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(c) Non-centralized administrative offset. (1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are ad hoc case-by-case offsets that an agency conducts, at the agency's discretion, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable nontax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, a creditor agency may make a request directly to a payment authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. For example, it may be appropriate for a creditor agency to request that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset a Federal employee's lump sum payment upon leaving Government service to satisfy an unpaid advance.
Non-centralized administrative offset.
(1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are
ad hoc
case-by-case offsets that an agency conducts, at the agency's discretion, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable nontax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, a creditor agency may make a request directly to a payment authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. For example, it may be appropriate for a creditor agency to request that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset a Federal employee's lump sum payment upon leaving Government service to satisfy an unpaid advance.
(2) Before requesting a payment authorizing agency to conduct a non-centralized administrative offset, agencies must adopt regulations providing that such offsets may occur only after:
(i) The debtor has been provided due process as set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and
(ii) The payment authorizing agency has received written certification from the creditor agency that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that the creditor agency has fully complied with its regulations concerning administrative offset.
(3) Payment authorizing agencies shall comply with offset requests by creditor agencies to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States with respect to the program of the payment authorizing agency, or would otherwise be contrary to law. Appropriate use should be made of the cooperative efforts of other agencies in effecting collection by administrative offset.
(4) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, agencies should apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
(d) Requests to OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. Upon providing OPM written certification that a debtor has been afforded the procedures provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, creditor agencies may request OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (Fund) in accordance with regulations codified at 5 CFR 831.1801-831.1808. Upon receipt of such a request, OPM will identify and “flag” a debtor's account in anticipation of the time when the debtor requests, or becomes eligible to receive, payments from the Fund. This will satisfy any requirement that offset be initiated prior to the expiration of the time limitations referenced in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
Requests to OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
Upon providing OPM written certification that a debtor has been afforded the procedures provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, creditor agencies may request OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (Fund) in accordance with regulations codified at 5 CFR 831.1801-831.1808. Upon receipt of such a request, OPM will identify and “flag” a debtor's account in anticipation of the time when the debtor requests, or becomes eligible to receive, payments from the Fund. This will satisfy any requirement that offset be initiated prior to the expiration of the time limitations referenced in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(e) Review requirements. (1) For purposes of this section, whenever an agency is required to afford a debtor a review within the agency, the agency shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the agency determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity.
Review requirements.
(1) For purposes of this section, whenever an agency is required to afford a debtor a review within the agency, the agency shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the agency determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity.
(2) Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although the agency should carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing.
(3) This section does not require an oral hearing with respect to debt collection systems in which a determination of indebtedness rarely involves issues of credibility or veracity and the agency has determined that review of the written record is ordinarily an adequate means to correct prior mistakes.
(4) In those cases when an oral hearing is not required by this section, an agency shall accord the debtor a “paper hearing,” that is, a determination of the request for reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.

§ 901.4   Reporting debts.

(a) Agencies shall develop and implement procedures for reporting delinquent debts to credit bureaus and other automated databases. Agencies also may develop procedures to report non-delinquent debts to credit bureaus. See 31 U.S.C. 3711(e).
(1) In developing procedures for reporting debts to credit bureaus, agencies shall comply with the Bankruptcy Code and the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended. The provisions of the Privacy Act do not apply to credit bureaus.
(2) Agency procedures for reporting delinquent consumer debts to credit bureaus shall be consistent with the due process and other requirements contained in 31 U.S.C. 3711(e). When an agency has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt, the agency need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before reporting that delinquent consumer debt to credit bureaus.
(b) Agencies should report delinquent debts to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS). For information about the CAIVRS program, agencies should contact the Director of Information Resources Management Policy and Management Division, Office of Information Technology, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410.

§ 901.5   Contracting with private collection contractors and with entities that locate and recover unclaimed assets.

(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, Federal agencies may contract with private collection contractors, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(f), to recover delinquent debts provided that:
(1) Agencies retain the authority to resolve disputes, compromise debts, suspend or terminate collection activity, and refer debts for litigation;
(2) The private collection contractor is not allowed to offer the debtor, as an incentive for payment, the opportunity to pay the debt less the private collection contractor's fee unless the agency has granted such authority prior to the offer;
(3) The contract provides that the private collection contractor is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 to the extent specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), and to applicable Federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to debt collection practices, including but not limited to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. 1692; and
(4) The private collection contractor is required to account for all amounts collected.
(b) Agencies shall use government-wide debt collection contracts to obtain debt collection services provided by private collection contractors. However, agencies may refer debts to private collection contractors pursuant to a contract between the agency and the private collection contractor only if such debts are not subject to the requirement to transfer debts to Treasury for debt collection. See 31 U.S.C. 3711(g); 31 CFR 285.12(e).
(c) Agencies may fund private collection contractor contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), or as otherwise permitted by law.
(d) Agencies may enter into contracts for locating and recovering assets of the United States, such as unclaimed assets. Agencies must establish procedures that are acceptable to the Secretary before entering into contracts to recover assets of the United States held by a state government or a financial institution.
(e) Agencies may enter into contracts for debtor asset and income search reports. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), such contracts may provide that the fee a contractor charges the agency for such services may be payable from the amounts recovered, unless otherwise prohibited by statute.

§ 901.6   Suspension or revocation of eligibility for loans and loan guaranties, licenses, permits, or privileges.

(a) Unless waived by the head of the agency, agencies are not permitted to extend financial assistance in the form of a loan, loan guarantee, or loan insurance to any person delinquent on a nontax debt owed to a Federal agency. This prohibition does not apply to disaster loans. The authority to waive the application of this section may be delegated to the Chief Financial Officer and redelegated only to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the agency. Agencies may extend credit after the delinquency has been resolved. The Secretary may exempt classes of debts from this prohibition and has prescribed standards defining when a “delinquency” is “resolved” for purposes of this prohibition. See 31 CFR 285.13 (Barring Delinquent Debtors From Obtaining Federal Loans or Loan Insurance or Guarantees).
(b) In non-bankruptcy cases, agencies seeking the collection of statutory penalties, forfeitures, or other types of claims should consider the suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or other privileges for any inexcusable or willful failure of a debtor to pay such a debt in accordance with the agency's regulations or governing procedures. The debtor should be advised in the agency's written demand for payment of the agency's ability to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges. Any agency making, guaranteeing, insuring, acquiring, or participating in, loans should consider suspending or disqualifying any lender, contractor, or broker from doing further business with the agency or engaging in programs sponsored by the agency if such lender, contractor, or broker fails to pay its debts to the Government within a reasonable time or if such lender, contractor, or broker has been suspended, debarred, or disqualified from participation in a program or activity by another Federal agency. The failure of any surety to honor its obligations in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9305 should be reported to the Treasury. The Treasury will forward to all interested agencies notification that a surety's certificate of authority to do business with the Government has been revoked by the Treasury.
(c) The suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or privileges also should extend to Federal programs or activities that are administered by the states on behalf of the Federal Government, to the extent that they affect the Federal Government's ability to collect money or funds owed by debtors. Therefore, states that manage Federal activities, pursuant to approval from the agencies, should ensure that appropriate steps are taken to safeguard against issuing licenses, permits, or privileges to debtors who fail to pay their debts to the Federal Government.
(d) In bankruptcy cases, before advising the debtor of an agency's intention to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges, agencies should seek legal advice from their agency counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 362 and 525, which may restrict such action.

§ 901.7   Liquidation of collateral.

(a) Agencies should liquidate security or collateral through the exercise of a power of sale in the security instrument or a nonjudicial foreclosure, and apply the proceeds to the applicable debt(s), if the debtor fails to pay the debt(s) within a reasonable time after demand and if such action is in the best interest of the United States. Collection from other sources, including liquidation of security or collateral, is not a prerequisite to requiring payment by a surety, insurer, or guarantor unless such action is expressly required by statute or contract.
(b) When an agency learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, the agency should seek legal advice from its agency counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, including, but not limited to, 11 U.S.C. 362, to determine the applicability of the automatic stay and the procedures for obtaining relief from such stay prior to proceeding under paragraph (a) of this section.

§ 901.8   Collection in installments.

(a) Whenever feasible, agencies shall collect the total amount of a debt in one lump sum. If a debtor is financially unable to pay a debt in one lump sum, agencies may accept payment in regular installments. Agencies should obtain financial statements from debtors who represent that they are unable to pay in one lump sum and independently verify such representations whenever possible (see § 902.2(g) of this chapter). Agencies that agree to accept payments in regular installments should obtain a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor that specifies all of the terms of the arrangement and that contains a provision accelerating the debt in the event of default.
(b) The size and frequency of installment payments should bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. If possible, the installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in three years or less.
(c) Security for deferred payments should be obtained in appropriate cases. Agencies may accept installment payments notwithstanding the refusal of the debtor to execute a written agreement or to give security, at the agency's option.

§ 901.9   Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section, agencies shall charge interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts owed to the United States pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. An agency shall mail or hand-deliver a written notice to the debtor, at the debtor's most recent address available to the agency, explaining the agency's requirements concerning these charges except where these requirements are included in a contractual or repayment agreement. These charges shall continue to accrue until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved through compromise, termination, or waiver of the charges.
(b) Agencies shall charge interest on debts owed the United States as follows:
(1) Interest shall accrue from the date of delinquency, or as otherwise provided by law.
(2) Unless otherwise established in a contract, repayment agreement, or by statute, the rate of interest charged shall be the rate established annually by the Secretary in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, an agency may charge a higher rate of interest if it reasonably determines that a higher rate is necessary to protect the rights of the United States. The agency should document the reason(s) for its determination that the higher rate is necessary.
(3) The rate of interest, as initially charged, shall remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. When a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, the agency may require payment of interest at a new rate that reflects the current value of funds to the Treasury at the time the new agreement is executed. Interest shall not be compounded, that is, interest shall not be charged on interest, penalties, or administrative costs required by this section. If, however, a debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement, charges that accrued but were not collected under the defaulted agreement shall be added to the principal under the new repayment agreement.
(c) Agencies shall assess administrative costs incurred for processing and handling delinquent debts. The calculation of administrative costs should be based on actual costs incurred or upon estimated costs as determined by the assessing agency.
(d) Unless otherwise established in a contract, repayment agreement, or by statute, agencies shall charge a penalty, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717(e)(2), not to exceed six percent a year on the amount due on a debt that is delinquent for more than 90 days. This charge shall accrue from the date of delinquency.
(e) Agencies may increase an “administrative debt” by the cost of living adjustment in lieu of charging interest and penalties under this section. “Administrative debt” includes, but is not limited to, a debt based on fines, penalties, and overpayments, but does not include a debt based on the extension of Government credit, such as those arising from loans and loan guaranties. The cost of living adjustment is the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year preceding the adjustment exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year in which the debt was determined or last adjusted. Increases to administrative debts shall be computed annually. Agencies should use this alternative only when there is a legitimate reason to do so, such as when calculating interest and penalties on a debt would be extremely difficult because of the age of the debt.
(f) When a debt is paid in partial or installment payments, amounts received by the Government shall be applied first to any contingency fees added to the debt, second to outstanding penalties, third to administrative costs other than contingency fees, fourth to interest, and last to principal. For purposes of this paragraph (f), “contingency fees” are administrative costs resulting from fees paid by a Federal agency to other Federal agencies or private collection contractors for collection services rendered when the fees are paid from the amounts collected from a debtor.
(g) Agencies shall waive the collection of interest and administrative costs imposed pursuant to this section on the portion of the debt that is paid within 30 days after the date on which interest began to accrue. Agencies may extend this 30-day period on a case-by-case basis. In addition, agencies may waive interest, penalties, and administrative costs charged under this section, in whole or in part, without regard to the amount of the debt, either under the criteria set forth in these standards for the compromise of debts, or if the agency determines that collection of these charges is against equity and good conscience or is not in the best interest of the United States.
(h) Agencies shall set forth in their regulations the circumstances under which interest and related charges will not be imposed for periods during which collection activity has been suspended pending agency review.
(i) Agencies are authorized to impose interest and related charges on debts not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717, in accordance with the common law.
[[65 FR 70396, Nov. 22, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 12274, Mar. 7, 2008]]

§ 901.10   Analysis of costs.

Agency collection procedures should provide for periodic comparison of costs incurred and amounts collected. Data on costs and corresponding recovery rates for debts of different types and in various dollar ranges should be used to compare the cost effectiveness of alternative collection techniques, establish guidelines with respect to points at which costs of further collection efforts are likely to exceed recoveries, assist in evaluating offers in compromise, and establish minimum debt amounts below which collection efforts need not be taken.

§ 901.11   Use and disclosure of mailing addresses.

(a) When attempting to locate a debtor in order to collect or compromise a debt under parts 900-904 of this chapter or other authority, agencies may send a request to the Secretary (or designee) to obtain a debtor's mailing address from the records of the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) Agencies are authorized to use mailing addresses obtained under paragraph (a) of this section to enforce collection of a delinquent debt and may disclose such mailing addresses to other agencies and to collection agencies for collection purposes.

§ 901.12   Exemptions.

(a) The preceding sections of this part, to the extent they reflect remedies or procedures prescribed by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, such as administrative offset, use of credit bureaus, contracting for collection agencies, and interest and related charges, do not apply to debts arising under, or payments made under, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), except to the extent provided under 42 U.S.C. 404 and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c); or the tariff laws of the United States. These remedies and procedures, however, may be authorized with respect to debts that are exempt from the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, to the extent that they are authorized under some other statute or the common law.
et seq.
); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), except to the extent provided under 42 U.S.C. 404 and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c); or the tariff laws of the United States. These remedies and procedures, however, may be authorized with respect to debts that are exempt from the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, to the extent that they are authorized under some other statute or the common law.
(b) This section should not be construed as prohibiting the use of these authorities or requirements when collecting debts owed by persons employed by agencies administering the laws cited in paragraph (a) of this section unless the debt arose under those laws.

PART 902—STANDARDS FOR THE COMPROMISE OF CLAIMS

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3711.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3711.
[Source:65 FR 70402, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 70402, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

§ 902.1   Scope and application.

(a) The standards set forth in this part apply to the compromise of debts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711. An agency may exercise such compromise authority for debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, that agency when the amount of the debt then due, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, does not exceed $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General. Agency heads may designate officials within their respective agencies to exercise the authorities in this section.
(b) Unless otherwise provided by law, when the principal balance of a debt, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, exceeds $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, the authority to accept the compromise rests with the Department of Justice. The agency should evaluate the compromise offer, using the factors set forth in this part. If an offer to compromise any debt in excess of $100,000 is acceptable to the agency, the agency shall refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice using a Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR). Agencies may obtain the CCLR from the Department of Justice's National Central Intake Facility. The referral shall include appropriate financial information and a recommendation for the acceptance of the compromise offer. Justice Department approval is not required if the agency rejects a compromise offer.

§ 902.2   Bases for compromise.

(a) Agencies may compromise a debt if the Government cannot collect the full amount because:
(1) The debtor is unable to pay the full amount in a reasonable time, as verified through credit reports or other financial information;
(2) The Government is unable to collect the debt in full within a reasonable time by enforced collection proceedings;
(3) The cost of collecting the debt does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount; or
(4) There is significant doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court.
(b) In determining the debtor's inability to pay, agencies should consider relevant factors such as the following:
(1) Age and health of the debtor;
(2) Present and potential income;
(3) Inheritance prospects;
(4) The possibility that assets have been concealed or improperly transferred by the debtor; and
(5) The availability of assets or income that may be realized by enforced collection proceedings.
(c) Agencies should verify the debtor's claim of inability to pay by using a credit report and other financial information as provided in paragraph (g) of this section. Agencies should consider the applicable exemptions available to the debtor under state and Federal law in determining the Government's ability to enforce collection. Agencies also may consider uncertainty as to the price that collateral or other property will bring at a forced sale in determining the Government's ability to enforce collection. A compromise effected under this section should be for an amount that bears a reasonable relation to the amount that can be recovered by enforced collection procedures, with regard to the exemptions available to the debtor and the time that collection will take.
(d) If there is significant doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court for the full amount claimed, either because of the legal issues involved or because of a bona fide dispute as to the facts, then the amount accepted in compromise of such cases should fairly reflect the probabilities of successful prosecution to judgment, with due regard given to the availability of witnesses and other evidentiary support for the Government's claim. In determining the litigative risks involved, agencies should consider the probable amount of court costs and attorney fees pursuant to the Equal Access to Justice Act, 28 U.S.C. 2412, that may be imposed against the Government if it is unsuccessful in litigation.
(e) Agencies may compromise a debt if the cost of collecting the debt does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount. The amount accepted in compromise in such cases may reflect an appropriate discount for the administrative and litigative costs of collection, with consideration given to the time it will take to effect collection. Collection costs may be a substantial factor in the settlement of small debts. In determining whether the cost of collecting justifies enforced collection of the full amount, agencies should consider whether continued collection of the debt, regardless of cost, is necessary to further an enforcement principle, such as the Government's willingness to pursue aggressively defaulting and uncooperative debtors.
(f) Agencies generally should not accept compromises payable in installments. This is not an advantageous form of compromise in terms of time and administrative expense. If, however, payment of a compromise in installments is necessary, agencies should obtain a legally enforceable written agreement providing that, in the event of default, the full original principal balance of the debt prior to compromise, less sums paid thereon, is reinstated. Whenever possible, agencies also should obtain security for repayment in the manner set forth in part 901 of this chapter.
(g) To assess the merits of a compromise offer based in whole or in part on the debtor's inability to pay the full amount of a debt within a reasonable time, agencies should obtain a current financial statement from the debtor, executed under penalty of perjury, showing the debtor's assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Agencies also may obtain credit reports or other financial information to assess compromise offers. Agencies may use their own financial information form or may request suitable forms from the Department of Justice or the local United States Attorney's Office.

§ 902.3   Enforcement policy.

Pursuant to this part, agencies may compromise statutory penalties, forfeitures, or claims established as an aid to enforcement and to compel compliance, if the agency's enforcement policy in terms of deterrence and securing compliance, present and future, will be adequately served by the agency's acceptance of the sum to be agreed upon.

§ 902.4   Joint and several liability.

(a) When two or more debtors are jointly and severally liable, agencies should pursue collection activity against all debtors, as appropriate. Agencies should not attempt to allocate the burden of payment between the debtors but should proceed to liquidate the indebtedness as quickly as possible.
(b) Agencies should ensure that a compromise agreement with one debtor does not release the agency's claim against the remaining debtors. The amount of a compromise with one debtor shall not be considered a precedent or binding in determining the amount that will be required from other debtors jointly and severally liable on the claim.

§ 902.5   Further review of compromise offers.

If an agency is uncertain whether to accept a firm, written, substantive compromise offer on a debt that is within the agency's delegated compromise authority, it may refer the offer to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice, using a CCLR accompanied by supporting data and particulars concerning the debt. The Department of Justice may act upon such an offer or return it to the agency with instructions or advice.

§ 902.6   Consideration of tax consequences to the Government.

In negotiating a compromise, agencies should consider the tax consequences to the Government. In particular, agencies should consider requiring a waiver of tax-loss-carry-forward and tax-loss-carry-back rights of the debtor. For information on discharge of indebtedness reporting requirements see § 903.5 of this chapter.

§ 902.7   Mutual releases of the debtor and the Government.

In all appropriate instances, a compromise that is accepted by an agency should be implemented by means of a mutual release, in which the debtor is released from further non-tax liability on the compromised debt in consideration of payment in full of the compromise amount and the Government and its officials, past and present, are released and discharged from any and all claims and causes of action arising from the same transaction that the debtor may have. In the event a mutual release is not executed when a debt is compromised, unless prohibited by law, the debtor is still deemed to have waived any and all claims and causes of action against the Government and its officials related to the transaction giving rise to the compromised debt.

PART 903—STANDARDS FOR SUSPENDING OR TERMINATING COLLECTION ACTIVITY

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3711.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3711.
[Source:65 FR 70403, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 70403, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

§ 903.1   Scope and application.

(a) The standards set forth in this part apply to the suspension or termination of collection activity pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711 on debts that do not exceed $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, after deducting the amount of partial payments or collections, if any. Prior to referring a debt to the Department of Justice for litigation, agencies may suspend or terminate collection under this part with respect to debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, that agency.
(b) If, after deducting the amount of any partial payments or collections, the principal amount of a debt exceeds $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, the authority to suspend or terminate rests solely with the Department of Justice. If the agency believes that suspension or termination of any debt in excess of $100,000 may be appropriate, the agency shall refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the Department of Justice, using the CCLR. The referral should specify the reasons for the agency's recommendation. If, prior to referral to the Department of Justice, an agency determines that a debt is plainly erroneous or clearly without legal merit, the agency may terminate collection activity regardless of the amount involved without obtaining Department of Justice concurrence.

§ 903.2   Suspension of collection activity.

(a) Agencies may suspend collection activity on a debt when:
(1) The agency cannot locate the debtor;
(2) The debtor's financial condition is expected to improve; or
(3) The debtor has requested a waiver or review of the debt.
(b) Based on the current financial condition of the debtor, agencies may suspend collection activity on a debt when the debtor's future prospects justify retention of the debt for periodic review and collection activity and:
(1) The applicable statute of limitations has not expired; or
(2) Future collection can be effected by administrative offset, notwithstanding the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations for litigation of claims, with due regard to the 10-year limitation for administrative offset prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 3716(e)(1); or
(3) The debtor agrees to pay interest on the amount of the debt on which collection will be suspended, and such suspension is likely to enhance the debtor's ability to pay the full amount of the principal of the debt with interest at a later date.
(c)(1) Agencies shall suspend collection activity during the time required for consideration of the debtor's request for waiver or administrative review of the debt if the statute under which the request is sought prohibits the agency from collecting the debt during that time.
(2) If the statute under which the request is sought does not prohibit collection activity pending consideration of the request, agencies may use discretion, on a case-by-case basis, to suspend collection. Further, an agency ordinarily should suspend collection action upon a request for waiver or review if the agency is prohibited by statute or regulation from issuing a refund of amounts collected prior to agency consideration of the debtor's request. However, an agency should not suspend collection when the agency determines that the request for waiver or review is frivolous or was made primarily to delay collection.
(d) When an agency learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, in most cases the collection activity on a debt must be suspended, pursuant to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 362, 1201, and 1301, unless the agency can clearly establish that the automatic stay has been lifted or is no longer in effect. Agencies should seek legal advice immediately from their agency counsel and, if legally permitted, take the necessary legal steps to ensure that no funds or money are paid by the agency to the debtor until relief from the automatic stay is obtained.

§ 903.3   Termination of collection activity.

(a) Agencies may terminate collection activity when:
(1) The agency is unable to collect any substantial amount through its own efforts or through the efforts of others;
(2) The agency is unable to locate the debtor;
(3) Costs of collection are anticipated to exceed the amount recoverable;
(4) The debt is legally without merit or enforcement of the debt is barred by any applicable statute of limitations;
(5) The debt cannot be substantiated; or
(6) The debt against the debtor has been discharged in bankruptcy.
(b) Before terminating collection activity, the agency should have pursued all appropriate means of collection and determined, based upon the results of the collection activity, that the debt is uncollectible. Termination of collection activity ceases active collection of the debt. The termination of collection activity does not preclude the agency from retaining a record of the account for purposes of:
(1) Selling the debt, if the Secretary determines that such sale is in the best interests of the United States;
(2) Pursuing collection at a subsequent date in the event there is a change in the debtor's status or a new collection tool becomes available;
(3) Offsetting against future income or assets not available at the time of termination of collection activity; or
(4) Screening future applicants for prior indebtedness.
(c) Generally, agencies shall terminate collection activity on a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of the amount. Agencies may continue collection activity, however, subject to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, for any payments provided under a plan of reorganization. Offset and recoupment rights may survive the discharge of the debtor in bankruptcy and, under some circumstances, claims also may survive the discharge. For example, the claims of an agency that it is a known creditor of a debtor may survive a discharge if the agency did not receive formal notice of the proceedings. Agencies should seek legal advice from their agency counsel if they believe they have claims or offsets that may survive the discharge of a debtor.

§ 903.4   Exception to termination.

When a significant enforcement policy is involved, or recovery of a judgment is a prerequisite to the imposition of administrative sanctions, agencies may refer debts for litigation even though termination of collection activity may otherwise be appropriate.

§ 903.5   Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.

(a) Before discharging a delinquent debt (also referred to as a close out of the debt), agencies shall take all appropriate steps to collect the debt in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), including, as applicable, administrative offset, tax refund offset, Federal salary offset, referral to Treasury, Treasury-designated debt collection centers or private collection contractors, credit bureau reporting, wage garnishment, litigation, and foreclosure. Discharge of indebtedness is distinct from termination or suspension of collection activity under part 903 of this title and is governed by the Internal Revenue Code. When collection action on a debt is suspended or terminated, the debt remains delinquent and further collection action may be pursued at a later date in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter. When an agency discharges a debt in full or in part, further collection action is prohibited. Therefore, agencies should make the determination that collection action is no longer warranted before discharging a debt. Before discharging a debt, agencies must terminate debt collection action.
(b) Section 3711(i), title 31, United States Code, requires agencies to sell a delinquent nontax debt upon termination of collection action if the Secretary determines such a sale is in the best interests of the United States. Since the discharge of a debt precludes any further collection action (including the sale of a delinquent debt), agencies may not discharge a debt until the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3711(i) have been met.
(c) Upon discharge of an indebtedness, agencies must report the discharge to the IRS in accordance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1. An agency may request Treasury or Treasury-designated debt collection centers to file such a discharge report to the IRS on the agency's behalf.
(d) When discharging a debt, agencies must request that litigation counsel release any liens of record securing the debt.

PART 904—REFERRALS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

[Authority:31 U.S.C. 3711.]
Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3711.
[Source:65 FR 70404, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
65 FR 70404, Nov. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

§ 904.1   Prompt referral.

(a) Agencies shall promptly refer to the Department of Justice for litigation debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with part 901 of this chapter and that cannot be compromised, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, in accordance with parts 902 and 903 of this chapter. Agencies may refer those debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, that agency. Debts for which the principal amount is over $1,000,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest and penalties, shall be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at the Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000, or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest or penalties, shall be referred to the Department of Justice's Nationwide Central Intake Facility as required by the CCLR instructions. Debts should be referred as early as possible, consistent with aggressive agency collection activity and the observance of the standards contained in parts 900-904 of this chapter, and, in any event, well within the period for initiating timely lawsuits against the debtors. Agencies shall make every effort to refer delinquent debts to the Department of Justice for litigation within one year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of guaranteed or insured loans, agencies should make every effort to refer these delinquent debts to the Department of Justice for litigation within one year from the date the loan was presented to the agency for payment or re-insurance.
(b) The Department of Justice has exclusive jurisdiction over the debts referred to it pursuant to this section. The referring agency shall immediately terminate the use of any administrative collection activities to collect a debt at the time of the referral of that debt to the Department of Justice. The agency should advise the Department of Justice of the collection activities which have been utilized to date, and their result. The referring agency shall refrain from having any contact with the debtor and shall direct all debtor inquiries concerning the debt to the Department of Justice. The referring agency shall immediately notify the Department of Justice of any payments credited by the agency to the debtor's account after referral of a debt under this section. The Department of Justice shall notify the referring agency, in a timely manner, of any payments it receives from the debtor.

§ 904.2   Claims Collection Litigation Report.

(a) Unless excepted by the Department of Justice, agencies shall complete the CCLR (see § 902.1(b) of this chapter), accompanied by a signed Certificate of Indebtedness, to refer all administratively uncollectible claims to the Department of Justice for litigation. Referring agencies shall complete all of the sections of the CCLR appropriate to each claim as required by the CCLR instructions and furnish such other information as may be required in specific cases.
(b) Agencies shall indicate clearly on the CCLR the actions they wish the Department of Justice to take with respect to the referred claim. The CCLR permits the agency to indicate specifically any of a number of litigative activities which the Department of Justice may pursue, including enforced collection, judgment lien only, renew judgment lien only, renew judgment lien and enforce collection, program enforcement, foreclosure only, and foreclosure and deficiency judgment.
(c) Agencies also shall use the CCLR to refer claims to the Department of Justice to obtain approval of any proposals to compromise the claims or to suspend or terminate agency collection activity.

§ 904.3   Preservation of evidence.

Referring agencies must take care to preserve all files and records that may be needed by the Department of Justice to prove their claims in court. Agencies ordinarily should include certified copies of the documents that form the basis for the claim in the packages referring their claims to the Department of Justice for litigation. Agencies shall provide originals of such documents immediately upon request by the Department of Justice.

§ 904.4   Minimum amount of referrals to the Department of Justice.

(a) Agencies shall not refer for litigation claims of less than $2,500, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, or such other amount as the Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe. The Department of Justice shall promptly notify referring agencies if the Attorney General changes this minimum amount.
(b) Agencies shall not refer claims of less than the minimum amount unless:
(1) Litigation to collect such smaller claims is important to ensure compliance with the agency's policies or programs;
(2) The claim is being referred solely for the purpose of securing a judgment against the debtor, which will be filed as a lien against the debtor's property pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 3201 and returned to the referring agency for enforcement; or
(3) The debtor has the clear ability to pay the claim and the Government effectively can enforce payment, with due regard for the exemptions available to the debtor under state and Federal law and the judicial remedies available to the Government.
(c) Agencies should consult with the Financial Litigation Staff of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys in the Department of Justice prior to referring claims valued at less than the minimum amount.

PARTS 905-999 [RESERVED]


CHAPTER X—FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


PARTS 1000-1009 [RESERVED]


PART 1010—GENERAL PROVISIONS

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5336; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 2006, Pub. L. 114-41, 129 Stat. 457; sec. 701 Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599; sec. 6403, Pub. L. 116-283, 134 Stat. 3388.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5336; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 2006, Pub. L. 114-41, 129 Stat. 457; sec. 701 Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599; sec. 6403, Pub. L. 116-283, 134 Stat. 3388.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—General Definitions


§ 1010.100   General definitions.

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024.
When used in this chapter and in forms prescribed under this chapter, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meanings ascribed in this subpart. Terms applicable to a particular type of financial institution or specific part or subpart of this chapter are located in that part or subpart. Terms may have different meanings in different parts or subparts.
(a) Accept. A receiving financial institution, other than the recipient's financial institution, accepts a transmittal order by executing the transmittal order. A recipient's financial institution accepts a transmittal order by paying the recipient, by notifying the recipient of the receipt of the order or by otherwise becoming obligated to carry out the order.
Accept.
A receiving financial institution, other than the recipient's financial institution, accepts a transmittal order by executing the transmittal order. A recipient's financial institution accepts a transmittal order by paying the recipient, by notifying the recipient of the receipt of the order or by otherwise becoming obligated to carry out the order.
(b) At one time. For purposes of § 1010.340 of this part, a person who transports, mails, ships or receives; is about to or attempts to transport, mail or ship; or causes the transportation, mailing, shipment or receipt of monetary instruments, is deemed to do so “at one time” if:
At one time.
For purposes of § 1010.340 of this part, a person who transports, mails, ships or receives; is about to or attempts to transport, mail or ship; or causes the transportation, mailing, shipment or receipt of monetary instruments, is deemed to do so “at one time” if:
(1) That person either alone, in conjunction with or on behalf of others;
(2) Transports, mails, ships or receives in any manner; is about to transport, mail or ship in any manner; or causes the transportation, mailing, shipment or receipt in any manner of;
(3) Monetary instruments;
(4) Into the United States or out of the United States;
(5) Totaling more than $10,000;
(6)(i) On one calendar day; or
(ii) If for the purpose of evading the reporting requirements of § 1010.340, on one or more days.
(c) Attorney General. The Attorney General of the United States.
Attorney General.
The Attorney General of the United States.
(d) Bank. Each agent, agency, branch or office within the United States of any person doing business in one or more of the capacities listed below:
Bank.
Each agent, agency, branch or office within the United States of any person doing business in one or more of the capacities listed below:
(1) A commercial bank or trust company organized under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(2) A private bank;
(3) A savings and loan association or a building and loan association organized under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(4) An insured institution as defined in section 401 of the National Housing Act;
(5) A savings bank, industrial bank or other thrift institution;
(6) A credit union organized under the law of any State or of the United States;
(7) Any other organization (except a money services business) chartered under the banking laws of any state and subject to the supervision of the bank supervisory authorities of a State;
(8) A bank organized under foreign law;
(9) Any national banking association or corporation acting under the provisions of section 25(a) of the Act of Dec. 23, 1913, as added by the Act of Dec. 24, 1919, ch. 18, 41 Stat. 378, as amended (12 U.S.C. 611-32).
(e) Bank Secrecy Act. The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, its amendments, and the other statutes relating to the subject matter of that Act, have come to be referred to as the Bank Secrecy Act. These statutes are codified at 12 U.S.C. 1829b, 12 U.S.C. 1951-1959, 18 U.S.C. 1956, 18 U.S.C. 1957, 18 U.S.C. 1960, and 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332 and notes thereto.
Bank Secrecy Act.
The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, its amendments, and the other statutes relating to the subject matter of that Act, have come to be referred to as the Bank Secrecy Act. These statutes are codified at 12 U.S.C. 1829b, 12 U.S.C. 1951-1959, 18 U.S.C. 1956, 18 U.S.C. 1957, 18 U.S.C. 1960, and 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332 and notes thereto.
(f) Beneficiary. The person to be paid by the beneficiary's bank.
Beneficiary.
The person to be paid by the beneficiary's bank.
(g) Beneficiary's bank. The bank or foreign bank identified in a payment order in which an account of the beneficiary is to be credited pursuant to the order or which otherwise is to make payment to the beneficiary if the order does not provide for payment to an account.
Beneficiary's bank.
The bank or foreign bank identified in a payment order in which an account of the beneficiary is to be credited pursuant to the order or which otherwise is to make payment to the beneficiary if the order does not provide for payment to an account.
(h) Broker or dealer in securities. A broker or dealer in securities, registered or required to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Broker or dealer in securities.
A broker or dealer in securities, registered or required to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(i) Business day. As used in this chapter with respect to banks, business day means that day, as normally communicated to its depository customers, on which a bank routinely posts a particular transaction to its customer's account.
Business day.
As used in this chapter with respect to banks, business day means that day, as normally communicated to its depository customers, on which a bank routinely posts a particular transaction to its customer's account.
(j) Commodity. Any good, article, service, right, or interest described in section 1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”), 7 U.S.C. 1a(4).
Commodity.
Any good, article, service, right, or interest described in section 1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”), 7 U.S.C. 1a(4).
(k) Common carrier. Any person engaged in the business of transporting individuals or goods for a fee who holds himself out as ready to engage in such transportation for hire and who undertakes to do so indiscriminately for all persons who are prepared to pay the fee for the particular service offered.
Common carrier.
Any person engaged in the business of transporting individuals or goods for a fee who holds himself out as ready to engage in such transportation for hire and who undertakes to do so indiscriminately for all persons who are prepared to pay the fee for the particular service offered.
(l) Contract of sale. Any sale, agreement of sale, or agreement to sell as described in section 1a(7) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 1a(7).
Contract of sale.
Any sale, agreement of sale, or agreement to sell as described in section 1a(7) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 1a(7).
(m) Currency. The coin and paper money of the United States or of any other country that is designated as legal tender and that circulates and is customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in the country of issuance. Currency includes U.S. silver certificates, U.S. notes and Federal Reserve notes. Currency also includes official foreign bank notes that are customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in a foreign country.
Currency.
The coin and paper money of the United States or of any other country that is designated as legal tender and that circulates and is customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in the country of issuance. Currency includes U.S. silver certificates, U.S. notes and Federal Reserve notes. Currency also includes official foreign bank notes that are customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in a foreign country.
(n) Deposit account. Deposit accounts include transaction accounts described in paragraph (ccc) of this section, savings accounts, and other time deposits.
Deposit account.
Deposit accounts include transaction accounts described in paragraph (ccc) of this section, savings accounts, and other time deposits.
(o) Domestic. When used herein, refers to the doing of business within the United States, and limits the applicability of the provision where it appears to the performance by such institutions or agencies of functions within the United States.
Domestic.
When used herein, refers to the doing of business within the United States, and limits the applicability of the provision where it appears to the performance by such institutions or agencies of functions within the United States.
(p) Established customer. A person with an account with the financial institution, including a loan account or deposit or other asset account, or a person with respect to which the financial institution has obtained and maintains on file the person's name and address, as well as taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, and to which the financial institution provides financial services relying on that information.
Established customer.
A person with an account with the financial institution, including a loan account or deposit or other asset account, or a person with respect to which the financial institution has obtained and maintains on file the person's name and address, as well as taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, and to which the financial institution provides financial services relying on that information.
(q) Execution date. The day on which the receiving financial institution may properly issue a transmittal order in execution of the sender's order. The execution date may be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received, and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received. If the sender's instruction states a payment date, the execution date is the payment date or an earlier date on which execution is reasonably necessary to allow payment to the recipient on the payment date.
Execution date.
The day on which the receiving financial institution may properly issue a transmittal order in execution of the sender's order. The execution date may be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received, and, unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received. If the sender's instruction states a payment date, the execution date is the payment date or an earlier date on which execution is reasonably necessary to allow payment to the recipient on the payment date.
(r) Federal functional regulator.
Federal functional regulator.
(1) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
(2) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
(3) The Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(4) The Office of Thrift Supervision;
(5) The National Credit Union Administration;
(6) The Securities and Exchange Commission; or
(7) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(s) FinCEN. FinCEN means the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
FinCEN.
FinCEN means the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a bureau of the Department of the Treasury.
(t) Financial institution. Each agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of any person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern, in one or more of the capacities listed below:
Financial institution.
Each agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of any person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern, in one or more of the capacities listed below:
(1) A bank (except bank credit card systems);
(2) A broker or dealer in securities;
(3) A money services business as defined in paragraph (ff) of this section;
(4) A telegraph company;
(5)(i) Casino. A casino or gambling casino that: Is duly licensed or authorized to do business as such in the United States, whether under the laws of a State or of a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act or other Federal, State, or tribal law or arrangement affecting Indian lands (including, without limitation, a casino operating on the assumption or under the view that no such authorization is required for casino operation on Indian lands); and has gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1 million. The term includes the principal headquarters and every domestic branch or place of business of the casino.
Casino.
A casino or gambling casino that: Is duly licensed or authorized to do business as such in the United States, whether under the laws of a State or of a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act or other Federal, State, or tribal law or arrangement affecting Indian lands (including, without limitation, a casino operating on the assumption or under the view that no such authorization is required for casino operation on Indian lands); and has gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1 million. The term includes the principal headquarters and every domestic branch or place of business of the casino.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (t)(5), “gross annual gaming revenue” means the gross gaming revenue received by a casino, during either the previous business year or the current business year of the casino. A casino or gambling casino which is a casino for purposes of this chapter solely because its gross annual gaming revenue exceeds $1,000,000 during its current business year, shall not be considered a casino for purposes of this chapter prior to the time in its current business year that its gross annual gaming revenue exceeds $1,000,000.
(iii) Any reference in this chapter, other than in this paragraph (t)(5) and in paragraph (t)(6) of this section, to a casino shall also include a reference to a card club, unless the provision in question contains specific language varying its application to card clubs or excluding card clubs from its application;
(6)(i) Card club. A card club, gaming club, card room, gaming room, or similar gaming establishment that is duly licensed or authorized to do business as such in the United States, whether under the laws of a State, of a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or of a political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act or other Federal, State, or tribal law or arrangement affecting Indian lands (including, without limitation, an establishment operating on the assumption or under the view that no such authorization is required for operation on Indian lands for an establishment of such type), and that has gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1,000,000. The term includes the principal headquarters and every domestic branch or place of business of the establishment. The term “casino,” as used in this chapter shall include a reference to “card club” to the extent provided in paragraph (t)(5)(iii) of this section.
Card club.
A card club, gaming club, card room, gaming room, or similar gaming establishment that is duly licensed or authorized to do business as such in the United States, whether under the laws of a State, of a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or of a political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act or other Federal, State, or tribal law or arrangement affecting Indian lands (including, without limitation, an establishment operating on the assumption or under the view that no such authorization is required for operation on Indian lands for an establishment of such type), and that has gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1,000,000. The term includes the principal headquarters and every domestic branch or place of business of the establishment. The term “casino,” as used in this chapter shall include a reference to “card club” to the extent provided in paragraph (t)(5)(iii) of this section.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (t)(6), “gross annual gaming revenue” means the gross revenue derived from or generated by customer gaming activity (whether in the form of per-game or per-table fees, however computed, rentals, or otherwise) and received by an establishment, during either the establishment's previous business year or its current business year. A card club that is a financial institution for purposes of this chapter solely because its gross annual revenue exceeds $1,000,000 during its current business year, shall not be considered a financial institution for purposes of this chapter prior to the time in its current business year when its gross annual revenue exceeds $1,000,000;
(7) A person subject to supervision by any state or Federal bank supervisory authority;
(8) A futures commission merchant;
(9) An introducing broker in commodities; or
(10) A mutual fund.
(u) Foreign bank. A bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
Foreign bank.
A bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
(v) Foreign financial agency. A person acting outside the United States for a person (except for a country, a monetary or financial authority acting as a monetary or financial authority, or an international financial institution of which the United States Government is a member) as a financial institution, bailee, depository trustee, or agent, or acting in a similar way related to money, credit, securities, gold, or a transaction in money, credit, securities, or gold.
Foreign financial agency.
A person acting outside the United States for a person (except for a country, a monetary or financial authority acting as a monetary or financial authority, or an international financial institution of which the United States Government is a member) as a financial institution, bailee, depository trustee, or agent, or acting in a similar way related to money, credit, securities, gold, or a transaction in money, credit, securities, or gold.
(w) Funds transfer. The series of transactions, beginning with the originator's payment order, made for the purpose of making payment to the beneficiary of the order. The term includes any payment order issued by the originator's bank or an intermediary bank intended to carry out the originator's payment order. A funds transfer is completed by acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary of the originator's payment order. Electronic fund transfers as defined in section 903(7) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(7)), as well as any other funds transfers that are made through an automated clearinghouse, an automated teller machine, or a point-of-sale system, are excluded from this definition.
Funds transfer.
The series of transactions, beginning with the originator's payment order, made for the purpose of making payment to the beneficiary of the order. The term includes any payment order issued by the originator's bank or an intermediary bank intended to carry out the originator's payment order. A funds transfer is completed by acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary of the originator's payment order. Electronic fund transfers as defined in section 903(7) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(7)), as well as any other funds transfers that are made through an automated clearinghouse, an automated teller machine, or a point-of-sale system, are excluded from this definition.
(x) Futures commission merchant. Any person registered or required to be registered as a futures commission merchant with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) under the CEA, except persons who register pursuant to section 4f(a)(2) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2).
Futures commission merchant.
Any person registered or required to be registered as a futures commission merchant with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) under the CEA, except persons who register pursuant to section 4f(a)(2) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2).
(y) Indian Gaming Regulatory Act. The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, codified at 25 U.S.C. 2701-2721 and 18 U.S.C. 1166-68.
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act.
The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, codified at 25 U.S.C. 2701-2721 and 18 U.S.C. 1166-68.
(z) Intermediary bank. A receiving bank other than the originator's bank or the beneficiary's bank.
Intermediary bank.
A receiving bank other than the originator's bank or the beneficiary's bank.
(aa) Intermediary financial institution. A receiving financial institution, other than the transmittor's financial institution or the recipient's financial institution. The term intermediary financial institution includes an intermediary bank.
Intermediary financial institution.
A receiving financial institution, other than the transmittor's financial institution or the recipient's financial institution. The term intermediary financial institution includes an intermediary bank.
(bb) Introducing broker-commodities. Any person registered or required to be registered as an introducing broker with the CFTC under the CEA, except persons who register pursuant to section 4f(a)(2) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2).
Introducing broker-commodities.
Any person registered or required to be registered as an introducing broker with the CFTC under the CEA, except persons who register pursuant to section 4f(a)(2) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2).
(cc) Investment security. An instrument which:
Investment security.
An instrument which:
(1) Is issued in bearer or registered form;
(2) Is of a type commonly dealt in upon securities exchanges or markets or commonly recognized in any area in which it is issued or dealt in as a medium for investment;
(3) Is either one of a class or series or by its terms is divisible into a class or series of instruments; and
(4) Evidences a share, participation or other interest in property or in an enterprise or evidences an obligation of the issuer.
(dd) Monetary instruments. (1) Monetary instruments include:
Monetary instruments.
(1) Monetary instruments include:
(i) Currency;
(ii) Traveler's checks in any form;
(iii) All negotiable instruments (including personal checks, business checks, official bank checks, cashier's checks, third-party checks, promissory notes (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), and money orders) that are either in bearer form, endorsed without restriction, made out to a fictitious payee (for the purposes of § 1010.340), or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery;
(iv) Incomplete instruments (including personal checks, business checks, official bank checks, cashier's checks, third-party checks, promissory notes (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), and money orders) signed but with the payee's name omitted; and
(v) Securities or stock in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto passes upon delivery.
(2) Monetary instruments do not include warehouse receipts or bills of lading.
(ee) [Reserved]
(ff) Money services business. A person wherever located doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized or licensed business concern, wholly or in substantial part within the United States, in one or more of the capacities listed in paragraphs (ff)(1) through (ff)(7) of this section. This includes but is not limited to maintenance of any agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States.
Money services business.
A person wherever located doing business
,
whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized or licensed business concern, wholly or in substantial part within the United States, in one or more of the capacities listed in paragraphs (ff)(1) through (ff)(7) of this section. This includes but is not limited to maintenance of any agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States.
(1) Dealer in foreign exchange. A person that accepts the currency, or other monetary instruments, funds, or other instruments denominated in the currency, of one or more countries in exchange for the currency, or other monetary instruments, funds, or other instruments denominated in the currency, of one or more other countries in an amount greater than $1,000 for any other person on any day in one or more transactions, whether or not for same-day delivery.
Dealer in foreign exchange.
A person that accepts the currency, or other monetary instruments, funds, or other instruments denominated in the currency, of one or more countries in exchange for the currency, or other monetary instruments, funds, or other instruments denominated in the currency, of one or more other countries in an amount greater than $1,000 for any other person on any day in one or more transactions, whether or not for same-day delivery.
(2) Check casher—(i) In general. A person that accepts checks (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), or monetary instruments (as defined at § 1010.100(dd)(1)(ii), (iii), (iv), and (v)) in return for currency or a combination of currency and other monetary instruments or other instruments, in an amount greater than $1,000 for any person on any day in one or more transactions.
Check casher
—(i)
In general.
A person that accepts checks (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), or monetary instruments (as defined at § 1010.100(dd)(1)(ii), (iii), (iv), and (v)) in return for currency or a combination of currency and other monetary instruments or other instruments, in an amount greater than $1,000 for any person on any day in one or more transactions.
(ii) Facts and circumstances; Limitations. Whether a person is a check casher as described in this section is a matter of facts and circumstances. The term “check casher” shall not include:
Facts and circumstances; Limitations.
Whether a person is a check casher as described in this section is a matter of facts and circumstances. The term “check casher” shall not include:
(A) A person that sells prepaid access in exchange for a check (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), monetary instrument or other instrument;
(B) A person that solely accepts monetary instruments as payment for goods or services other than check cashing services;
(C) A person that engages in check cashing for the verified maker of the check who is a customer otherwise buying goods and services;
(D) A person that redeems its own checks; or
(E) A person that only holds a customer's check as collateral for repayment by the customer of a loan.
(3) Issuer or seller of traveler's checks or money orders. A person that
Issuer or seller of traveler's checks or money orders.
A person that
(i) Issues traveler's checks or money orders that are sold in an amount greater than $1,000 to any person on any day in one or more transactions; or
(ii) Sells traveler's checks or money orders in an amount greater than $1,000 to any person on any day in one or more transactions.
(4) Provider of prepaid access—(i) In general. A provider of prepaid access is the participant within a prepaid program that agrees to serve as the principal conduit for access to information from its fellow program participants. The participants in each prepaid access program must determine a single participant within the prepaid program to serve as the provider of prepaid access.
Provider of prepaid access
—(i)
In general.
A provider of prepaid access is the participant within a prepaid program that agrees to serve as the principal conduit for access to information from its fellow program participants. The participants in each prepaid access program must determine a single participant within the prepaid program to serve as the provider of prepaid access.
(ii) Considerations for provider determination. In the absence of registration as the provider of prepaid access for a prepaid program by one of the participants in a prepaid access program, the provider of prepaid access is the person with principal oversight and control over the prepaid program. Which person exercises “principal oversight and control” is a matter of facts and circumstances. Activities that indicate “principal oversight and control” include:
Considerations for provider determination.
In the absence of registration as the provider of prepaid access for a prepaid program by one of the participants in a prepaid access program, the provider of prepaid access is the person with principal oversight and control over the prepaid program. Which person exercises “principal oversight and control” is a matter of facts and circumstances. Activities that indicate “principal oversight and control” include:
(A) Organizing the prepaid program;
(B) Setting the terms and conditions of the prepaid program and determining that the terms have not been exceeded;
(C) Determining the other businesses that will participate in the prepaid program, which may include the issuing bank, the payment processor, or the distributor;
(D) Controlling or directing the appropriate party to initiate, freeze, or terminate prepaid access; and
(E) Engaging in activity that demonstrates oversight and control of the prepaid program.
(iii) Prepaid program. A prepaid program is an arrangement under which one or more persons acting together provide(s) prepaid access. However, an arrangement is not a prepaid program if:
Prepaid program.
A prepaid program is an arrangement under which one or more persons acting together provide(s) prepaid access. However, an arrangement is
not
a prepaid program if:
(A) It provides closed loop prepaid access to funds not to exceed $2,000 maximum value that can be associated with a prepaid access device or vehicle on any day;
(B) It provides prepaid access solely to funds provided by a Federal, State, local, Territory and Insular Possession, or Tribal government agency;
(C) It provides prepaid access solely to funds from pre-tax flexible spending arrangements for health care and dependent care expenses, or from Health Reimbursement Arrangements (as defined in 26 U.S.C. 105(b) and 125) for health care expenses; or
(D) (1) It provides prepaid access solely to:
1
) It provides prepaid access solely to:
(i) Employment benefits, incentives, wages or salaries; or
i
) Employment benefits, incentives, wages or salaries; or
(ii) Funds not to exceed $1,000 maximum value and from which no more than $1,000 maximum value can be initially or subsequently loaded, used, or withdrawn on any day through a device or vehicle; and
ii
) Funds not to exceed $1,000 maximum value and from which no more than $1,000 maximum value can be initially or subsequently loaded, used, or withdrawn on any day through a device or vehicle; and
(2) It does not permit:
2
) It does not permit:
(i) Funds or value to be transmitted internationally;
i
) Funds or value to be transmitted internationally;
(ii) Transfers between or among users of prepaid access within a prepaid program; or
ii
) Transfers between or among users of prepaid access within a prepaid program; or
(iii) Loading additional funds or the value of funds from non-depository sources.
iii
) Loading additional funds or the value of funds from non-depository sources.
(5) Money transmitter—(i) In general. (A) A person that provides money transmission services. The term “money transmission services” means the acceptance of currency, funds, or other value that substitutes for currency from one person and the transmission of currency, funds, or other value that substitutes for currency to another location or person by any means. “Any means” includes, but is not limited to, through a financial agency or institution; a Federal Reserve Bank or other facility of one or more Federal Reserve Banks, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or both; an electronic funds transfer network; or an informal value transfer system; or
Money transmitter
—(i)
In general.
(A) A person that provides money transmission services. The term “money transmission services” means the acceptance of currency, funds, or other value that substitutes for currency from one person
and
the transmission of currency, funds, or other value that substitutes for currency to another location or person by any means. “Any means” includes, but is not limited to, through a financial agency or institution; a Federal Reserve Bank or other facility of one or more Federal Reserve Banks, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or both; an electronic funds transfer network; or an informal value transfer system; or
(B) Any other person engaged in the transfer of funds.
(ii) Facts and circumstances; Limitations. Whether a person is a money transmitter as described in this section is a matter of facts and circumstances. The term “money transmitter” shall not include a person that only:
Facts and circumstances; Limitations.
Whether a person is a money transmitter as described in this section is a matter of facts and circumstances. The term “money transmitter” shall not include a person that only:
(A) Provides the delivery, communication, or network access services used by a money transmitter to support money transmission services;
(B) Acts as a payment processor to facilitate the purchase of, or payment of a bill for, a good or service through a clearance and settlement system by agreement with the creditor or seller;
(C) Operates a clearance and settlement system or otherwise acts as an intermediary solely between BSA regulated institutions. This includes but is not limited to the Fedwire system, electronic funds transfer networks, certain registered clearing agencies regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), and derivatives clearing organizations, or other clearinghouse arrangements established by a financial agency or institution;
(D) Physically transports currency, other monetary instruments, other commercial paper, or other value that substitutes for currency as a person primarily engaged in such business, such as an armored car, from one person to the same person at another location or to an account belonging to the same person at a financial institution, provided that the person engaged in physical transportation has no more than a custodial interest in the currency, other monetary instruments, other commercial paper, or other value at any point during the transportation;
(E) Provides prepaid access; or
(F) Accepts and transmits funds only integral to the sale of goods or the provision of services, other than money transmission services, by the person who is accepting and transmitting the funds.
(6) U.S. Postal Service. The United States Postal Service, except with respect to the sale of postage or philatelic products.
U.S. Postal Service.
The United States Postal Service, except with respect to the sale of postage or philatelic products.
(7) Seller of prepaid access. Any person that receives funds or the value of funds in exchange for an initial loading or subsequent loading of prepaid access if that person:
Seller of prepaid access.
Any person that receives funds or the value of funds in exchange for an initial loading or subsequent loading of prepaid access if that person:
(i) Sells prepaid access offered under a prepaid program that can be used before verification of customer identification under § 1022.210(d)(1)(iv); or
(ii) Sells prepaid access (including closed loop prepaid access) to funds that exceed $10,000 to any person during any one day, and has not implemented policies and procedures reasonably adapted to prevent such a sale.
(8) Limitation. For the purposes of this section, the term “money services business” shall not include:
Limitation.
For the purposes of this section, the term “money services business” shall not include:
(i) A bank or foreign bank;
(ii) A person registered with, and functionally regulated or examined by, the SEC or the CFTC, or a foreign financial agency that engages in financial activities that, if conducted in the United States, would require the foreign financial agency to be registered with the SEC or CFTC; or
(iii) A natural person who engages in an activity identified in paragraphs (ff)(1) through (ff)(5) of this section on an infrequent basis and not for gain or profit.
(gg) Mutual fund. An “investment company” (as the term is defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3)) that is an “open-end company” (as that term is defined in section 5 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) that is registered or is required to register with the Commission under section 8 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8).
Mutual fund.
An “investment company” (as the term is defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3)) that is an “open-end company” (as that term is defined in section 5 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) that is registered or is required to register with the Commission under section 8 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8).
(hh) Option on a commodity. Any agreement, contract, or transaction described in section 1a(26) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 1a(26).
Option on a commodity.
Any agreement, contract, or transaction described in section 1a(26) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 1a(26).
(ii) Originator. The sender of the first payment order in a funds transfer.
Originator.
The sender of the first payment order in a funds transfer.
(jj) Originator's bank. The receiving bank to which the payment order of the originator is issued if the originator is not a bank or foreign bank, or the originator if the originator is a bank or foreign bank.
Originator's bank.
The receiving bank to which the payment order of the originator is issued if the originator is not a bank or foreign bank, or the originator if the originator is a bank or foreign bank.
(kk) Payment date. The day on which the amount of the transmittal order is payable to the recipient by the recipient's financial institution. The payment date may be determined by instruction of the sender, but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received by the recipient's financial institution and, unless otherwise prescribed by instruction, is the date the order is received by the recipient's financial institution.
Payment date.
The day on which the amount of the transmittal order is payable to the recipient by the recipient's financial institution. The payment date may be determined by instruction of the sender, but cannot be earlier than the day the order is received by the recipient's financial institution and, unless otherwise prescribed by instruction, is the date the order is received by the recipient's financial institution.
(ll) Payment order. An instruction of a sender to a receiving bank, transmitted orally, electronically, or in writing, to pay, or to cause another bank or foreign bank to pay, a fixed or determinable amount of money to a beneficiary if:
Payment order.
An instruction of a sender to a receiving bank, transmitted orally, electronically, or in writing, to pay, or to cause another bank or foreign bank to pay, a fixed or determinable amount of money to a beneficiary if:
(1) The instruction does not state a condition to payment to the beneficiary other than time of payment;
(2) The receiving bank is to be reimbursed by debiting an account of, or otherwise receiving payment from, the sender; and
(3) The instruction is transmitted by the sender directly to the receiving bank or to an agent, funds transfer system, or communication system for transmittal to the receiving bank.
(mm) Person. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a trust or estate, a joint stock company, an association, a syndicate, joint venture, or other unincorporated organization or group, an Indian Tribe (as that term is defined in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act), and all entities cognizable as legal personalities.
Person.
An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a trust or estate, a joint stock company, an association, a syndicate, joint venture, or other unincorporated organization or group, an Indian Tribe (as that term is defined in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act), and all entities cognizable as legal personalities.
(nn) Receiving bank. The bank or foreign bank to which the sender's instruction is addressed.
Receiving bank.
The bank or foreign bank to which the sender's instruction is addressed.
(oo) Receiving financial institution. The financial institution or foreign financial agency to which the sender's instruction is addressed. The term receiving financial institution includes a receiving bank.
Receiving financial institution.
The financial institution or foreign financial agency to which the sender's instruction is addressed. The term receiving financial institution includes a receiving bank.
(pp) Recipient. The person to be paid by the recipient's financial institution. The term recipient includes a beneficiary, except where the recipient's financial institution is a financial institution other than a bank.
Recipient.
The person to be paid by the recipient's financial institution. The term recipient includes a beneficiary, except where the recipient's financial institution is a financial institution other than a bank.
(qq) Recipient's financial institution. The financial institution or foreign financial agency identified in a transmittal order in which an account of the recipient is to be credited pursuant to the transmittal order or which otherwise is to make payment to the recipient if the order does not provide for payment to an account. The term recipient's financial institution includes a beneficiary's bank, except where the beneficiary is a recipient's financial institution.
Recipient's financial institution.
The financial institution or foreign financial agency identified in a transmittal order in which an account of the recipient is to be credited pursuant to the transmittal order or which otherwise is to make payment to the recipient if the order does not provide for payment to an account. The term recipient's financial institution includes a beneficiary's bank, except where the beneficiary is a recipient's financial institution.
(rr) Secretary. The Secretary of the Treasury or any person duly authorized by the Secretary to perform the function mentioned.
Secretary.
The Secretary of the Treasury or any person duly authorized by the Secretary to perform the function mentioned.
(ss) Security. Security means any instrument or interest described in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10).
Security.
Security means any instrument or interest described in section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10).
(tt) Self-regulatory organization:
Self-regulatory organization:
(1) Shall have the same meaning as provided in section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)); and
(2) Means a “registered entity” or a “registered futures association” as provided in section 1a(29) or 17, respectively, of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(29), 21).
(uu) Sender. The person giving the instruction to the receiving financial institution.
Sender.
The person giving the instruction to the receiving financial institution.
(vv) State. The States of the United States and, wherever necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, the District of Columbia.
State.
The States of the United States and, wherever necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, the District of Columbia.
(ww) Prepaid access. Access to funds or the value of funds that have been paid in advance and can be retrieved or transferred at some point in the future through an electronic device or vehicle, such as a card, code, electronic serial number, mobile identification number, or personal identification number.
Prepaid access.
Access to funds or the value of funds that have been paid in advance and can be retrieved or transferred at some point in the future through an electronic device or vehicle, such as a card, code, electronic serial number, mobile identification number, or personal identification number.
(xx) Structure (structuring). For purposes of § 1010.314, a person structures a transaction if that person, acting alone, or in conjunction with, or on behalf of, other persons, conducts or attempts to conduct one or more transactions in currency, in any amount, at one or more financial institutions, on one or more days, in any manner, for the purpose of evading the reporting requirements under §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311 and 1021.313 of this chapter. “In any manner” includes, but is not limited to, the breaking down of a single sum of currency exceeding $10,000 into smaller sums, including sums at or below $10,000, or the conduct of a transaction, or series of currency transactions at or below $10,000. The transaction or transactions need not exceed the $10,000 reporting threshold at any single financial institution on any single day in order to constitute structuring within the meaning of this definition.
Structure (structuring).
For purposes of § 1010.314, a person structures a transaction if that person, acting alone, or in conjunction with, or on behalf of, other persons, conducts or attempts to conduct one or more transactions in currency, in any amount, at one or more financial institutions, on one or more days, in any manner, for the purpose of evading the reporting requirements under §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311 and 1021.313 of this chapter. “In any manner” includes, but is not limited to, the breaking down of a single sum of currency exceeding $10,000 into smaller sums, including sums at or below $10,000, or the conduct of a transaction, or series of currency transactions at or below $10,000. The transaction or transactions need not exceed the $10,000 reporting threshold at any single financial institution on any single day in order to constitute structuring within the meaning of this definition.
(yy) Taxpayer Identification Number. Taxpayer Identification Number (“TIN”) is defined by section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109) and the Internal Revenue Service regulations implementing that section (e.g., social security number or employer identification number).
Taxpayer Identification Number.
Taxpayer Identification Number (“TIN”) is defined by section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6109) and the Internal Revenue Service regulations implementing that section (
e.g.,
social security number or employer identification number).
(zz) Territories and Insular Possessions. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and all other territories and possessions of the United States other than the Indian lands and the District of Columbia.
Territories and Insular Possessions.
The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and all other territories and possessions of the United States other than the Indian lands and the District of Columbia.
(aaa) [Reserved]
(bbb) Transaction. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (bbb)(2) of this section, transaction means a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, security, contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, option on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, option on a commodity, purchase or redemption of any money order, payment or order for any money remittance or transfer, purchase or redemption of casino chips or tokens, or other gaming instruments or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.
Transaction.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (bbb)(2) of this section, transaction means a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer, delivery, or other disposition, and with respect to a financial institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument, security, contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, option on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, option on a commodity, purchase or redemption of any money order, payment or order for any money remittance or transfer, purchase or redemption of casino chips or tokens, or other gaming instruments or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial institution, by whatever means effected.
(2) For purposes of §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311, 1021.313, and other provisions of this chapter relating solely to the report required by those sections, the term “transaction in currency” shall mean a transaction involving the physical transfer of currency from one person to another. A transaction which is a transfer of funds by means of bank check, bank draft, wire transfer, or other written order, and which does not include the physical transfer of currency, is not a transaction in currency for this purpose.
(ccc) Transaction account. Transaction accounts include those accounts described in 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C), money market accounts and similar accounts that take deposits and are subject to withdrawal by check or other negotiable order.
Transaction account.
Transaction accounts include those accounts described in 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C), money market accounts and similar accounts that take deposits and are subject to withdrawal by check or other negotiable order.
(ddd) Transmittal of funds. A series of transactions beginning with the transmittor's transmittal order, made for the purpose of making payment to the recipient of the order. The term includes any transmittal order issued by the transmittor's financial institution or an intermediary financial institution intended to carry out the transmittor's transmittal order. The term transmittal of funds includes a funds transfer. A transmittal of funds is completed by acceptance by the recipient's financial institution of a transmittal order for the benefit of the recipient of the transmittor's transmittal order. Electronic fund transfers as defined in section 903(7) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(7)), as well as any other funds transfers that are made through an automated clearinghouse, an automated teller machine, or a point-of-sale system, are excluded from this definition.
Transmittal of funds.
A series of transactions beginning with the transmittor's transmittal order, made for the purpose of making payment to the recipient of the order. The term includes any transmittal order issued by the transmittor's financial institution or an intermediary financial institution intended to carry out the transmittor's transmittal order. The term transmittal of funds includes a funds transfer. A transmittal of funds is completed by acceptance by the recipient's financial institution of a transmittal order for the benefit of the recipient of the transmittor's transmittal order. Electronic fund transfers as defined in section 903(7) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(7)), as well as any other funds transfers that are made through an automated clearinghouse, an automated teller machine, or a point-of-sale system, are excluded from this definition.
(eee) Transmittal order. The term transmittal order includes a payment order and is an instruction of a sender to a receiving financial institution, transmitted orally, electronically, or in writing, to pay, or cause another financial institution or foreign financial agency to pay, a fixed or determinable amount of money to a recipient if:
Transmittal order.
The term transmittal order includes a payment order and is an instruction of a sender to a receiving financial institution, transmitted orally, electronically, or in writing, to pay, or cause another financial institution or foreign financial agency to pay, a fixed or determinable amount of money to a recipient if:
(1) The instruction does not state a condition to payment to the recipient other than time of payment;
(2) The receiving financial institution is to be reimbursed by debiting an account of, or otherwise receiving payment from, the sender; and
(3) The instruction is transmitted by the sender directly to the receiving financial institution or to an agent or communication system for transmittal to the receiving financial institution.
(fff) Transmittor. The sender of the first transmittal order in a transmittal of funds. The term transmittor includes an originator, except where the transmittor's financial institution is a financial institution or foreign financial agency other than a bank or foreign bank.
Transmittor.
The sender of the first transmittal order in a transmittal of funds. The term transmittor includes an originator, except where the transmittor's financial institution is a financial institution or foreign financial agency other than a bank or foreign bank.
(ggg) Transmittor's financial institution. The receiving financial institution to which the transmittal order of the transmittor is issued if the transmittor is not a financial institution or foreign financial agency, or the transmittor if the transmittor is a financial institution or foreign financial agency. The term transmittor's financial institution includes an originator's bank, except where the originator is a transmittor's financial institution other than a bank or foreign bank.
Transmittor's financial institution.
The receiving financial institution to which the transmittal order of the transmittor is issued if the transmittor is not a financial institution or foreign financial agency, or the transmittor if the transmittor is a financial institution or foreign financial agency. The term transmittor's financial institution includes an originator's bank, except where the originator is a transmittor's financial institution other than a bank or foreign bank.
(hhh) United States. The States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Indian lands (as that term is defined in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act), and the Territories and Insular Possessions of the United States.
United States.
The States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Indian lands (as that term is defined in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act), and the Territories and Insular Possessions of the United States.
(iii) U.S. person. (1) A United States citizen; or (2) A person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), that is established or organized under the laws of a State or the United States. Non-U.S. person means a person that is not a U.S. person.
U.S. person.
(1) A United States citizen; or (2) A person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), that is established or organized under the laws of a State or the United States. Non-U.S. person means a person that is not a U.S. person.
(jjj) U.S. Postal Service. The United States Postal Service, except with respect to the sale of postage or philatelic products.
U.S. Postal Service.
The United States Postal Service, except with respect to the sale of postage or philatelic products.
(kkk) Closed loop prepaid access. Prepaid access to funds or the value of funds that can be used only for goods or services in transactions involving a defined merchant or location (or set of locations), such as a specific retailer or retail chain, a college campus, or a subway system.
Closed loop prepaid access.
Prepaid access to funds or the value of funds that can be used only for goods or services in transactions involving a defined merchant or location (or set of locations), such as a specific retailer or retail chain, a college campus, or a subway system.
(lll) Loan or finance company. A person engaged in activities that take place wholly or in substantial part within the United States in one or more of the capacities listed below, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern. This includes but is not limited to maintenance of any agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States. For the purposes of this paragraph (lll), the term “loan or finance company” shall include a sole proprietor acting as a loan or finance company, and shall not include: A bank, a person registered with and functionally regulated or examined by the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, any government sponsored enterprise regulated by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, any Federal or state agency or authority administering mortgage or housing assistance, fraud prevention or foreclosure prevention programs, or an individual employed by a loan or finance company or financial institution under this part. A loan or finance company is not a financial institution as defined in the regulations in this part at 1010.100(t).
Loan or finance company.
A person engaged in activities that take place wholly or in substantial part within the United States in one or more of the capacities listed below, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized business concern. This includes but is not limited to maintenance of any agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States. For the purposes of this paragraph (lll), the term “loan or finance company” shall include a sole proprietor acting as a loan or finance company, and shall not include: A bank, a person registered with and functionally regulated or examined by the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, any government sponsored enterprise regulated by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, any Federal or state agency or authority administering mortgage or housing assistance, fraud prevention or foreclosure prevention programs, or an individual employed by a loan or finance company or financial institution under this part. A loan or finance company is not a financial institution as defined in the regulations in this part at 1010.100(t).
(1) Residential mortgage lender or originator. A residential mortgage lender or originator includes:
Residential mortgage lender or originator.
A residential mortgage lender or originator includes:
(i) Residential mortgage lender. The person to whom the debt arising from a residential mortgage loan is initially payable on the face of the evidence of indebtedness or, if there is no such evidence of indebtedness, by agreement, or to whom the obligation is initially assigned at or immediately after settlement. The term “residential mortgage lender” shall not include an individual who finances the sale of the individual's own dwelling or real property.
Residential mortgage lender.
The person to whom the debt arising from a residential mortgage loan is initially payable on the face of the evidence of indebtedness or, if there is no such evidence of indebtedness, by agreement, or to whom the obligation is initially assigned at or immediately after settlement. The term “residential mortgage lender” shall not include an individual who finances the sale of the individual's own dwelling or real property.
(ii) Residential mortgage originator. A person who accepts a residential mortgage loan application or offers or negotiates terms of a residential mortgage loan.
Residential mortgage originator.
A person who accepts a residential mortgage loan application or offers or negotiates terms of a residential mortgage loan.
(iii) Residential mortgage loan. A loan that is secured by a mortgage, deed of trust, or other equivalent consensual security interest on:
Residential mortgage loan.
A loan that is secured by a mortgage, deed of trust, or other equivalent consensual security interest on:
(A) A residential structure that contains one to four units, including, if used as a residence, an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, mobile home or trailer; or
(B) Residential real estate upon which such a structure is constructed or intended to be constructed.
(2) [Reserved]
(mmm) Housing government sponsored enterprise. (1) A “housing government sponsored enterprise” is one of the following “Regulated Entities” under 12 U.S.C. 4502(20) subject to the general supervision and regulation of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA):
Housing government sponsored enterprise.
(1) A “housing government sponsored enterprise” is one of the following “Regulated Entities” under 12 U.S.C. 4502(20) subject to the general supervision and regulation of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA):
(i) The Federal National Mortgage Association;
(ii) The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; or
(iii) Each Federal Home Loan Bank.
(2) The term “housing government sponsored enterprise” does not include any “Entity-Affiliated Party,” as defined in 12 U.S.C. 4502(11).
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43596, July 21, 2011; 76 FR 45419, July 29, 2011; 77 FR 8157, Feb. 14, 2012; 78 FR 72817, Dec. 4, 2013; 79 FR 10375, Feb. 25, 2014]]

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1010.200   General.

Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to subpart B of its chapter X Part for any additional program requirements. Unless otherwise indicated, the program requirements contained in this subpart B apply to all financial institutions (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)).

§ 1010.205   Exempted anti-money laundering programs for certain financial institutions.

(a) Exempt financial institutions. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following financial institutions (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) concerning the establishment of anti-money laundering programs:
Exempt financial institutions.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following financial institutions (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) concerning the establishment of anti-money laundering programs:
(1) An agency of the United States Government, or of a State or local government, carrying out a duty or power of a business described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2); and
(2) [Reserved]
(b) Temporary exemption for certain financial institutions. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following financial institutions (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) concerning the establishment of anti-money laundering programs:
Temporary exemption for certain financial institutions.
(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following financial institutions (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) concerning the establishment of anti-money laundering programs:
(i) Pawnbroker;
(ii) Travel agency;
(iii) Telegraph company;
(iv) Seller of vehicles, including automobiles, airplanes, and boats;
(v) Person involved in real estate closings and settlements;
(vi) Commodity pool operator;
(vii) Commodity trading advisor; or
(viii) Investment company.
(2)—(3) [Reserved]
(c) Limitation on exemption. The exemptions described in paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to any financial institution that is otherwise required to establish an anti-money laundering program by this chapter.
Limitation on exemption.
The exemptions described in paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to any financial institution that is otherwise required to establish an anti-money laundering program by this chapter.
(d) Compliance obligations of deferred financial institutions. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve an exempt financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31 of the U.S.C. and this chapter.
Compliance obligations of deferred financial institutions.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve an exempt financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31 of the U.S.C. and this chapter.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 8157, Feb. 14, 2012; 85 FR 57137, Sept. 15, 2020]]

§ 1010.210   Anti-money laundering programs.

Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to subpart B of its chapter X part for any additional anti-money laundering program requirements.

§ 1010.220   Customer identification program requirements.

Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to subpart B of its chapter X part for any additional customer identification program requirements.

§ 1010.230   Beneficial ownership requirements for legal entity customers.

(a) In general. Covered financial institutions are required to establish and maintain written procedures that are reasonably designed to identify and verify beneficial owners of legal entity customers and to include such procedures in their anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and its implementing regulations.
In general.
Covered financial institutions are required to establish and maintain written procedures that are reasonably designed to identify and verify beneficial owners of legal entity customers and to include such procedures in their anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and its implementing regulations.
(b) Identification and verification. With respect to legal entity customers, the covered financial institution's customer due diligence procedures shall enable the institution to:
Identification and verification.
With respect to legal entity customers, the covered financial institution's customer due diligence procedures shall enable the institution to:
(1) Identify the beneficial owner(s) of each legal entity customer at the time a new account is opened, unless the customer is otherwise excluded pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section or the account is exempted pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section. A covered financial institution may accomplish this either by obtaining a certification in the form of appendix A of this section from the individual opening the account on behalf of the legal entity customer, or by obtaining from the individual the information required by the form by another means, provided the individual certifies, to the best of the individual's knowledge, the accuracy of the information; and
(2) Verify the identity of each beneficial owner identified to the covered financial institution, according to risk-based procedures to the extent reasonable and practicable. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements required for verifying the identity of customers that are individuals under § 1020.220(a)(2) of this chapter (for banks); § 1023.220(a)(2) of this chapter (for brokers or dealers in securities); § 1024.220(a)(2) of this chapter (for mutual funds); or § 1026.220(a)(2) of this chapter (for futures commission merchants or introducing brokers in commodities); provided, that in the case of documentary verification, the financial institution may use photocopies or other reproductions of the documents listed in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A)(1) of § 1020.220 of this chapter (for banks); § 1023.220 of this chapter (for brokers or dealers in securities); § 1024.220 of this chapter (for mutual funds); or § 1026.220 of this chapter (for futures commission merchants or introducing brokers in commodities). A covered financial institution may rely on the information supplied by the legal entity customer regarding the identity of its beneficial owner or owners, provided that it has no knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of such information.
1
) of § 1020.220 of this chapter (for banks); § 1023.220 of this chapter (for brokers or dealers in securities); § 1024.220 of this chapter (for mutual funds); or § 1026.220 of this chapter (for futures commission merchants or introducing brokers in commodities). A covered financial institution may rely on the information supplied by the legal entity customer regarding the identity of its beneficial owner or owners, provided that it has no knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of such information.
(c) Account. For purposes of this section, account has the meaning set forth in § 1020.100(a) of this chapter (for banks); § 1023.100(a) of this chapter (for brokers or dealers in securities); § 1024.100(a) of this chapter (for mutual funds); and § 1026.100(a) of this chapter (for futures commission merchants or introducing brokers in commodities).
Account.
For purposes of this section,
account
has the meaning set forth in § 1020.100(a) of this chapter (for banks); § 1023.100(a) of this chapter (for brokers or dealers in securities); § 1024.100(a) of this chapter (for mutual funds); and § 1026.100(a) of this chapter (for futures commission merchants or introducing brokers in commodities).
(d) Beneficial owner. For purposes of this section, beneficial owner means each of the following:
Beneficial owner.
For purposes of this section,
beneficial owner
means each of the following:
(1) Each individual, if any, who, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, owns 25 percent or more of the equity interests of a legal entity customer; and
(2) A single individual with significant responsibility to control, manage, or direct a legal entity customer, including:
(i) An executive officer or senior manager (e.g., a Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Managing Member, General Partner, President, Vice President, or Treasurer); or
e.g.,
a Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Managing Member, General Partner, President, Vice President, or Treasurer); or
(ii) Any other individual who regularly performs similar functions.
(3) If a trust owns directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, 25 percent or more of the equity interests of a legal entity customer, the beneficial owner for purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall mean the trustee. If an entity listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section owns directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, 25 percent or more of the equity interests of a legal entity customer, no individual need be identified for purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section with respect to that entity's interests.
Note to paragraph (
d
):
The number of individuals that satisfy the definition of “beneficial owner,” and therefore must be identified and verified pursuant to this section, may vary. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, depending on the factual circumstances, up to four individuals may need to be identified. Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, only one individual must be identified. It is possible that in some circumstances the same person or persons might be identified pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. A covered financial institution may also identify additional individuals as part of its customer due diligence if it deems appropriate on the basis of risk.
(e) Legal entity customer. For the purposes of this section:
Legal entity customer.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) Legal entity customer means a corporation, limited liability company, or other entity that is created by the filing of a public document with a Secretary of State or similar office, a general partnership, and any similar entity formed under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction that opens an account.
Legal entity customer
means a corporation, limited liability company, or other entity that is created by the filing of a public document with a Secretary of State or similar office, a general partnership, and any similar entity formed under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction that opens an account.
(2) Legal entity customer does not include:
Legal entity customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a State bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (5) of this chapter;
(iii) An issuer of a class of securities registered under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or that is required to file reports under section 15(d) of that Act;
(iv) An investment company, as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under that Act;
(v) An investment adviser, as defined in section 202(a)(11) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under that Act;
(vi) An exchange or clearing agency, as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that is registered under section 6 or 17A of that Act;
(vii) Any other entity registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(viii) A registered entity, commodity pool operator, commodity trading advisor, retail foreign exchange dealer, swap dealer, or major swap participant, each as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act, that is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(ix) A public accounting firm registered under section 102 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;
(x) A bank holding company, as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841) or savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10(n) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C 1467a(n));
(xi) A pooled investment vehicle that is operated or advised by a financial institution excluded under paragraph (e)(2) of this section;
(xii) An insurance company that is regulated by a State;
(xiii) A financial market utility designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010;
(xiv) A foreign financial institution established in a jurisdiction where the regulator of such institution maintains beneficial ownership information regarding such institution;
(xv) A non-U.S. governmental department, agency or political subdivision that engages only in governmental rather than commercial activities; and
(xvi) Any legal entity only to the extent that it opens a private banking account subject to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(3) The following legal entity customers are subject only to the control prong of the beneficial ownership requirement:
(i) A pooled investment vehicle that is operated or advised by a financial institution not excluded under paragraph (e)(2) of this section; and
(ii) Any legal entity that is established as a nonprofit corporation or similar entity and has filed its organizational documents with the appropriate State authority as necessary.
(f) Covered financial institution. For the purposes of this section, covered financial institution has the meaning set forth in § 1010.605(e)(1) of this chapter.
Covered financial institution.
For the purposes of this section,
covered financial institution
has the meaning set forth in § 1010.605(e)(1) of this chapter.
(g) New account. For the purposes of this section, new account means each account opened at a covered financial institution by a legal entity customer on or after the applicability date.
New account.
For the purposes of this section,
new account
means each account opened at a covered financial institution by a legal entity customer on or after the applicability date.
(h) Exemptions. (1) Covered financial institutions are exempt from the requirements to identify and verify the identity of the beneficial owner(s) set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) and (2) of this section only to the extent the financial institution opens an account for a legal entity customer that is:
Exemptions.
(1) Covered financial institutions are exempt from the requirements to identify and verify the identity of the beneficial owner(s) set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) and (2) of this section only to the extent the financial institution opens an account for a legal entity customer that is:
(i) At the point-of-sale to provide credit products, including commercial private label credit cards, solely for the purchase of retail goods and/or services at these retailers, up to a limit of $50,000;
(ii) To finance the purchase of postage and for which payments are remitted directly by the financial institution to the provider of the postage products;
(iii) To finance insurance premiums and for which payments are remitted directly by the financial institution to the insurance provider or broker;
(iv) To finance the purchase or leasing of equipment and for which payments are remitted directly by the financial institution to the vendor or lessor of this equipment.
(2) Limitations on Exemptions. (i) The exemptions identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section do not apply to transaction accounts through which a legal entity customer can make payments to, or receive payments from, third parties.
Limitations on Exemptions.
(i) The exemptions identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section do not apply to transaction accounts through which a legal entity customer can make payments to, or receive payments from, third parties.
(ii) If there is the possibility of a cash refund on the account activity identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section, then beneficial ownership of the legal entity customer must be identified and verified by the financial institution as required by this section, either at the time of initial remittance, or at the time such refund occurs.
(i) Recordkeeping. A covered financial institution must establish procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under the procedures implementing paragraph (b) of this section.
Recordkeeping.
A covered financial institution must establish procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under the procedures implementing paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) Required records. At a minimum the record must include:
Required records.
At a minimum the record must include:
(i) For identification, any identifying information obtained by the covered financial institution pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, including without limitation the certification (if obtained); and
(ii) For verification, a description of any document relied on (noting the type, any identification number, place of issuance and, if any, date of issuance and expiration), of any non-documentary methods and the results of any measures undertaken, and of the resolution of each substantive discrepancy.
(2) Retention of records. A covered financial institution must retain the records made under paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed, and the records made under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section for five years after the record is made.
Retention of records.
A covered financial institution must retain the records made under paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed, and the records made under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section for five years after the record is made.
(j) Reliance on another financial institution. A covered financial institution may rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of the requirements of this section with respect to any legal entity customer of the covered financial institution that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
Reliance on another financial institution.
A covered financial institution may rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of the requirements of this section with respect to any legal entity customer of the covered financial institution that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(1) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(2) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and is regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(3) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the covered financial institution that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it will perform (or its agent will perform) the specified requirements of the covered financial institution's procedures to comply with the requirements of this section.
[[81 FR 29451, May 11, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 45183, Sept. 28, 2017]]

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made


§ 1010.300   General.

Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its chapter X part for any additional reporting requirements. Unless otherwise indicated, the reporting requirements contained in this subpart C apply to all financial institutions.

§ 1010.301   Determination by the Secretary.

The Secretary hereby determines that the reports required by this chapter have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory investigations or proceedings.

§ 1010.305   [Reserved]


§ 1010.306   Filing of reports.

(a)(1) A report required by § 1010.311 or § 1021.311, shall be filed by the financial institution within 15 days following the day on which the reportable transaction occurred.
(2) A copy of each report filed pursuant to §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311 and 1021.313, shall be retained by the financial institution for a period of five years from the date of the report.
(3) All reports required to be filed by §§ 1010.311, 1010.313, 1020.315, 1021.311 and 1021.313, shall be filed with FinCEN, unless otherwise specified.
(b)(1) A report required by § 1010.340(a) shall be filed at the time of entry into the United States or at the time of departure, mailing or shipping from the United States, unless otherwise specified by the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection.
(2) A report required by § 1010.340(b) shall be filed within 15 days after receipt of the currency or other monetary instruments.
(3) All reports required by § 1010.340 shall be filed with the Customs officer in charge at any port of entry or departure, or as otherwise specified by the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection. Reports required by § 1010.340(a) for currency or other monetary instruments not physically accompanying a person entering or departing from the United States, may be filed by mail on or before the date of entry, departure, mailing or shipping. All reports required by § 1010.340(b) may also be filed by mail. Reports filed by mail shall be addressed to the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Attention: Currency Transportation Reports, Washington, DC 20229.
(c) Reports required to be filed by § 1010.350 shall be filed with FinCEN on or before June 30 of each calendar year with respect to foreign financial accounts exceeding $10,000 maintained during the previous calendar year.
(d) Reports required by § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1010.340, § 1010.350, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter shall be filed on forms prescribed by the Secretary. All information called for in such forms shall be furnished.
(e) Forms to be used in making the reports required by § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1010.350, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter may be obtained from BSA E-Filing System. Forms to be used in making the reports required by § 1010.340 may be obtained from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection or FinCEN.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]]

§ 1010.310   Reports of transactions in currency.

Sections 1010.310 through 1010.314 set forth the rules for the reporting by financial institutions of transactions in currency. Unless otherwise indicated, the transactions in currency reporting requirements in §§ 1010.310 through 1010.314 apply to all financial institutions. Each financial institution should refer to subpart C of its chapter X part for any additional transactions in currency reporting requirements.

§ 1010.311   Filing obligations for reports of transactions in currency.

Each financial institution other than a casino shall file a report of each deposit, withdrawal, exchange of currency or other payment or transfer, by, through, or to such financial institution which involves a transaction in currency of more than $10,000, except as otherwise provided in this section. In the case of the U.S. Postal Service, the obligation contained in the preceding sentence shall not apply to payments or transfers made solely in connection with the purchase of postage or philatelic products.

§ 1010.312   Identification required.

Before concluding any transaction with respect to which a report is required under § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter, a financial institution shall verify and record the name and address of the individual presenting a transaction, as well as record the identity, account number, and the social security or taxpayer identification number, if any, of any person or entity on whose behalf such transaction is to be effected. Verification of the identity of an individual who indicates that he or she is an alien or is not a resident of the United States must be made by passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence (e.g., a Provincial driver's license with indication of home address). Verification of identity in any other case shall be made by examination of a document, other than a bank signature card, that is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors (e.g., a driver's license or credit card). A bank signature card may be relied upon only if it was issued after documents establishing the identity of the individual were examined and notation of the specific information was made on the signature card. In each instance, the specific identifying information (i.e., the account number of the credit card, the driver's license number, etc.) used in verifying the identity of the customer shall be recorded on the report, and the mere notation of “known customer” or “bank signature card on file” on the report is prohibited.
e.g.,
a Provincial driver's license with indication of home address). Verification of identity in any other case shall be made by examination of a document, other than a bank signature card, that is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors (
e.g.,
a driver's license or credit card). A bank signature card may be relied upon only if it was issued after documents establishing the identity of the individual were examined and notation of the specific information was made on the signature card. In each instance, the specific identifying information (
i.e.,
the account number of the credit card, the driver's license number,
etc.
) used in verifying the identity of the customer shall be recorded on the report, and the mere notation of “known customer” or “bank signature card on file” on the report is prohibited.

§ 1010.313   Aggregation.

(a) Multiple branches. A financial institution includes all of its domestic branch offices, and any recordkeeping facility, wherever located, that contains records relating to the transactions of the institution's domestic offices, for purposes of the transactions in currency reporting requirements in this chapter.
Multiple branches.
A financial institution includes all of its domestic branch offices, and any recordkeeping facility, wherever located, that contains records relating to the transactions of the institution's domestic offices, for purposes of the transactions in currency reporting requirements in this chapter.
(b) Multiple transactions. In the case of financial institutions other than casinos, for purposes of the transactions in currency reporting requirements in this chapter, multiple currency transactions shall be treated as a single transaction if the financial institution has knowledge that they are by or on behalf of any person and result in either cash in or cash out totaling more than $10,000 during any one business day (or in the case of the U.S. Postal Service, any one day). Deposits made at night or over a weekend or holiday shall be treated as if received on the next business day following the deposit.
Multiple transactions.
In the case of financial institutions other than casinos, for purposes of the transactions in currency reporting requirements in this chapter, multiple currency transactions shall be treated as a single transaction if the financial institution has knowledge that they are by or on behalf of any person and result in either cash in or cash out totaling more than $10,000 during any one business day (or in the case of the U.S. Postal Service, any one day). Deposits made at night or over a weekend or holiday shall be treated as if received on the next business day following the deposit.

§ 1010.314   Structured transactions.

No person shall for the purpose of evading the transactions in currency reporting requirements of this chapter with respect to such transaction:
(a) Cause or attempt to cause a domestic financial institution to fail to file a report required under the transactions in currency reporting requirements of this chapter;
(b) Cause or attempt to cause a domestic financial institution to file a report required under the transactions in currency reporting requirements of this chapter that contains a material omission or misstatement of fact; or
(c) Structure (as that term is defined in § 1010.100(xx)) or assist in structuring, or attempt to structure or assist in structuring, any transaction with one or more domestic financial institutions.

§ 1010.315   Exemptions for non-bank financial institutions.

A non-bank financial institution is not required to file a report otherwise required by § 1010.311 with respect to a transaction in currency between the institution and a commercial bank.

§ 1010.320   Reports of suspicious transactions.

Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to subpart C of its financial institution part in this chapter for any additional suspicious transaction reporting requirements.

§ 1010.330   Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

(a) Reporting requirement—(1) Reportable transactions—(i) In general. Any person (solely for purposes of section 5331 of title 31, United States Code and this section, “person” shall have the same meaning as under 26 U.S.C. 7701(a)(1)) who, in the course of a trade or business in which such person is engaged, receives currency in excess of $10,000 in 1 transaction (or 2 or more related transactions) shall, except as otherwise provided, make a report of information with respect to the receipt of currency. This section does not apply to amounts received in a transaction reported under 31 U.S.C. 5313 and § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter.
Reporting requirement
—(1)
Reportable transactions
—(i)
In general.
Any person (solely for purposes of section 5331 of title 31, United States Code and this section, “person” shall have the same meaning as under 26 U.S.C. 7701(a)(1)) who, in the course of a trade or business in which such person is engaged, receives currency in excess of $10,000 in 1 transaction (or 2 or more related transactions) shall, except as otherwise provided, make a report of information with respect to the receipt of currency. This section does not apply to amounts received in a transaction reported under 31 U.S.C. 5313 and § 1010.311, § 1010.313, § 1020.315, § 1021.311 or § 1021.313 of this chapter.
(ii) Certain financial transactions. Section 6050I of title 26 of the United States Code requires persons to report information about financial transactions to the IRS, and 31 U.S.C. 5331 requires persons to report the same information to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. This information shall be reported on the same form as prescribed by the Secretary.
Certain financial transactions.
Section 6050I of title 26 of the United States Code requires persons to report information about financial transactions to the IRS, and 31 U.S.C. 5331 requires persons to report the same information to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. This information shall be reported on the same form as prescribed by the Secretary.
(2) Currency received for the account of another. Currency in excess of $10,000 received by a person for the account of another must be reported under this section. Thus, for example, a person who collects delinquent accounts receivable for an automobile dealer must report with respect to the receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 from the collection of a particular account even though the proceeds of the collection are credited to the account of the automobile dealer (i.e., where the rights to the proceeds from the account are retained by the automobile dealer and the collection is made on a fee-for-service basis).
Currency received for the account of another.
Currency in excess of $10,000 received by a person for the account of another must be reported under this section. Thus, for example, a person who collects delinquent accounts receivable for an automobile dealer must report with respect to the receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 from the collection of a particular account even though the proceeds of the collection are credited to the account of the automobile dealer (
i.e.,
where the rights to the proceeds from the account are retained by the automobile dealer and the collection is made on a fee-for-service basis).
(3) Currency received by agents— (i) General rule. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, a person who in the course of a trade or business acts as an agent (or in some other similar capacity) and receives currency in excess of $10,000 from a principal must report the receipt of currency under this section.
Currency received by agents
— (i)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, a person who in the course of a trade or business acts as an agent (or in some other similar capacity) and receives currency in excess of $10,000 from a principal must report the receipt of currency under this section.
(ii) Exception. An agent who receives currency from a principal and uses all of the currency within 15 days in a currency transaction (the “second currency transaction”) which is reportable under section 5312 of title 31, or 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section, and who discloses the name, address, and TIN of the principal to the recipient in the second currency transaction need not report the initial receipt of currency under this section. An agent will be deemed to have met the disclosure requirements of this paragraph (a)(3)(ii) if the agent discloses only the name of the principal and the agent knows that the recipient has the principal's address and taxpayer identification number.
Exception.
An agent who receives currency from a principal and uses all of the currency within 15 days in a currency transaction (the “second currency transaction”) which is reportable under section 5312 of title 31, or 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section, and who discloses the name, address, and TIN of the principal to the recipient in the second currency transaction need not report the initial receipt of currency under this section. An agent will be deemed to have met the disclosure requirements of this paragraph (a)(3)(ii) if the agent discloses only the name of the principal and the agent knows that the recipient has the principal's address and taxpayer identification number.
(iii) Example. The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section:
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section:
Example.
B, the principal, gives D, an attorney, $75,000 in currency to purchase real property on behalf of B. Within 15 days D purchases real property for currency from E, a real estate developer, and discloses to E, B's name, address, and taxpayer identification number. Because the transaction qualifies for the exception provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, D need not report with respect to the initial receipt of currency under this section. The exception does not apply, however, if D pays E by means other than currency, or effects the purchase more than 15 days following receipt of the currency from B, or fails to disclose B's name, address, and taxpayer identification number (assuming D does not know that E already has B's address and taxpayer identification number), or purchases the property from a person whose sale of the property is not in the course of that person's trade or business. In any such case, D is required to report the receipt of currency from B under this section.
(b) Multiple payments. The receipt of multiple currency deposits or currency installment payments (or other similar payments or prepayments) relating to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), is reported as set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.
Multiple payments.
The receipt of multiple currency deposits or currency installment payments (or other similar payments or prepayments) relating to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), is reported as set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.
(1) Initial payment in excess of $10,000. If the initial payment exceeds $10,000, the recipient must report the initial payment within 15 days of its receipt.
Initial payment in excess of $10,000.
If the initial payment exceeds $10,000, the recipient must report the initial payment within 15 days of its receipt.
(2) Initial payment of $10,000 or less. If the initial payment does not exceed $10,000, the recipient must aggregate the initial payment and subsequent payments made within one year of the initial payment until the aggregate amount exceeds $10,000, and report with respect to the aggregate amount within 15 days after receiving the payment that causes the aggregate amount to exceed $10,000.
Initial payment of $10,000 or less.
If the initial payment does not exceed $10,000, the recipient must aggregate the initial payment and subsequent payments made within one year of the initial payment until the aggregate amount exceeds $10,000, and report with respect to the aggregate amount within 15 days after receiving the payment that causes the aggregate amount to exceed $10,000.
(3) Subsequent payments. In addition to any other required report, a report must be made each time that previously unreportable payments made within a 12-month period with respect to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), individually or in the aggregate, exceed $10,000. The report must be made within 15 days after receiving the payment in excess of $10,000 or the payment that causes the aggregate amount received in the 12-month period to exceed $10,000. (If more than one report would otherwise be required for multiple currency payments within a 15-day period that relate to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), the recipient may make a single combined report with respect to the payments. The combined report must be made no later than the date by which the first of the separate reports would otherwise be required to be made.)
Subsequent payments.
In addition to any other required report, a report must be made each time that previously unreportable payments made within a 12-month period with respect to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), individually or in the aggregate, exceed $10,000. The report must be made within 15 days after receiving the payment in excess of $10,000 or the payment that causes the aggregate amount received in the 12-month period to exceed $10,000. (If more than one report would otherwise be required for multiple currency payments within a 15-day period that relate to a single transaction (or two or more related transactions), the recipient may make a single combined report with respect to the payments. The combined report must be made no later than the date by which the first of the separate reports would otherwise be required to be made.)
(4) Example. The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section:
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section:
Example.
On January 10, Year 1, M receives an initial payment in currency of $11,000 with respect to a transaction. M receives subsequent payments in currency with respect to the same transaction of $4,000 on February 15, Year 1, $6,000 on March 20, Year 1, and $12,000 on May 15, Year 1. M must make a report with respect to the payment received on January 10, Year 1, by January 25, Year 1. M must also make a report with respect to the payments totaling $22,000 received from February 15, Year 1, through May 15, Year 1. This report must be made by May 30, Year 1, that is, within 15 days of the date that the subsequent payments, all of which were received within a 12-month period, exceeded $10,000.
(c) Meaning of terms. The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—
Meaning of terms.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—
(1) Currency. The term currency means—
Currency.
The term
currency
means—
(i) The coin and currency of the United States or of any other country, which circulate in and are customarily used and accepted as money in the country in which issued; and
(ii) A cashier's check (by whatever name called, including “treasurer's check” and “bank check”), bank draft, traveler's check, or money order having a face amount of not more than $10,000—
(A) Received in a designated reporting transaction as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section (except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3), (4), and (5) of this section), or
(B) Received in any transaction in which the recipient knows that such instrument is being used in an attempt to avoid the reporting of the transaction under section 5331 and this section.
(2) Designated reporting transaction. A designated reporting transaction is a retail sale (or the receipt of funds by a broker or other intermediary in connection with a retail sale) of—
Designated reporting transaction.
A designated reporting transaction is a retail sale (or the receipt of funds by a broker or other intermediary in connection with a retail sale) of—
(i) A consumer durable,
(ii) A collectible, or
(iii) A travel or entertainment activity.
(3) Exception for certain loans. A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument constitutes the proceeds of a loan from a bank. The recipient may rely on a copy of the loan document, a written statement from the bank, or similar documentation (such as a written lien instruction from the issuer of the instrument) to substantiate that the instrument constitutes loan proceeds.
Exception for certain loans.
A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument constitutes the proceeds of a loan from a bank. The recipient may rely on a copy of the loan document, a written statement from the bank, or similar documentation (such as a written lien instruction from the issuer of the instrument) to substantiate that the instrument constitutes loan proceeds.
(4) Exception for certain installment sales. A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument is received in payment on a promissory note or an installment sales contract (including a lease that is considered to be a sale for Federal income tax purposes). However, the preceding sentence applies only if—
Exception for certain installment sales.
A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument is received in payment on a promissory note or an installment sales contract (including a lease that is considered to be a sale for Federal income tax purposes). However, the preceding sentence applies only if—
(i) Promissory notes or installment sales contracts with the same or substantially similar terms are used in the ordinary course of the recipient's trade or business in connection with sales to ultimate consumers; and
(ii) The total amount of payments with respect to the sale that are received on or before the 60th day after the date of the sale does not exceed 50 percent of the purchase price of the sale.
(5) Exception for certain down payment plans. A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument is received pursuant to a payment plan requiring one or more down payments and the payment of the balance of the purchase price by a date no later than the date of the sale (in the case of an item of travel or entertainment, a date no later than the earliest date that any item of travel or entertainment pertaining to the same trip or event is furnished). However, the preceding sentence applies only if—
Exception for certain down payment plans.
A cashier's check, bank draft, traveler's check, or money order received in a designated reporting transaction is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the instrument is received pursuant to a payment plan requiring one or more down payments and the payment of the balance of the purchase price by a date no later than the date of the sale (in the case of an item of travel or entertainment, a date no later than the earliest date that any item of travel or entertainment pertaining to the same trip or event is furnished). However, the preceding sentence applies only if—
(i) The recipient uses payment plans with the same or substantially similar terms in the ordinary course of its trade or business in connection with sales to ultimate consumers; and
(ii) The instrument is received more than 60 days prior to the date of the sale (in the case of an item of travel or entertainment, the date on which the final payment is due).
(6) Examples. The following examples illustrate the definition of “currency” set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section:
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the definition of “currency” set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section:
Example 1.
D, an individual, purchases gold coins from M, a coin dealer, for $13,200. D tenders to M in payment United States currency in the amount of $6,200 and a cashier's check in the face amount of $7,000 which D had purchased. Because the sale is a designated reporting transaction, the cashier's check is treated as currency for purposes of 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section. Therefore, because M has received more than $10,000 in currency with respect to the transaction, M must make the report required by 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
Example 2.
E, an individual, purchases an automobile from Q, an automobile dealer, for $11,500. E tenders to Q in payment United States currency in the amount of $2,000 and a cashier's check payable to E and Q in the amount of $9,500. The cashier's check constitutes the proceeds of a loan from the bank issuing the check. The origin of the proceeds is evident from provisions inserted by the bank on the check that instruct the dealer to cause a lien to be placed on the vehicle as security for the loan. The sale of the automobile is a designated reporting transaction. However, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, because E has furnished Q documentary information establishing that the cashier's check constitutes the proceeds of a loan from the bank issuing the check, the cashier's check is not treated as currency pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
Example 3.
F, an individual, purchases an item of jewelry from S, a retail jeweler, for $12,000. F gives S traveler's checks totaling $2,400 and pays the balance with a personal check payable to S in the amount of $9,600. Because the sale is a designated reporting transaction, the traveler's checks are treated as currency for purposes of section 5331 and this section. However, because the personal check is not treated as currency for purposes of section 5331 and this section, S has not received more than $10,000 in currency in the transaction and no report is required to be filed under section 5331 and this section.
Example 4.
G, an individual, purchases a boat from T, a boat dealer, for $16,500. G pays T with a cashier's check payable to T in the amount of $16,500. The cashier's check is not treated as currency because the face amount of the check is more than $10,000. Thus, no report is required to be made by T under section 5331 and this section.
Example 5.
H, an individual, arranges with W, a travel agent, for the chartering of a passenger aircraft to transport a group of individuals to a sports event in another city. H also arranges with W for hotel accommodations for the group and for admission tickets to the sports event. In payment, H tenders to W money orders which H had previously purchased. The total amount of the money orders, none of which individually exceeds $10,000 in face amount, exceeds $10,000. Because the transaction is a designated reporting transaction, the money orders are treated as currency for purposes of section 5331 and this section. Therefore, because W has received more than $10,000 in currency with respect to the transaction, W must make the report required by section 5331 and this section.
(7) Consumer durable. The term consumer durable means an item of tangible personal property of a type that is suitable under ordinary usage for personal consumption or use, that can reasonably be expected to be useful for at least 1 year under ordinary usage, and that has a sales price of more than $10,000. Thus, for example, a $20,000 automobile is a consumer durable (whether or not it is sold for business use), but a $20,000 dump truck or a $20,000 factory machine is not.
Consumer durable.
The term
consumer durable
means an item of tangible personal property of a type that is suitable under ordinary usage for personal consumption or use, that can reasonably be expected to be useful for at least 1 year under ordinary usage, and that has a sales price of more than $10,000. Thus, for example, a $20,000 automobile is a consumer durable (whether or not it is sold for business use), but a $20,000 dump truck or a $20,000 factory machine is not.
(8) Collectible. The term collectible means an item described in paragraphs (A) through (D) of section 408 (m)(2) of title 26 of the United States Code (determined without regard to section 408 (m)(3) of title 26 of the United States Code).
Collectible.
The term
collectible
means an item described in paragraphs (A) through (D) of section 408 (m)(2) of title 26 of the United States Code (determined without regard to section 408 (m)(3) of title 26 of the United States Code).
(9) Travel or entertainment activity. The term travel or entertainment activity means an item of travel or entertainment (within the meaning of 26 CFR 1.274-2(b)(1)) pertaining to a single trip or event where the aggregate sales price of the item and all other items pertaining to the same trip or event that are sold in the same transaction (or related transactions) exceeds $10,000.
Travel or entertainment activity.
The term
travel or entertainment activity
means an item of travel or entertainment (within the meaning of 26 CFR 1.274-2(b)(1)) pertaining to a single trip or event where the aggregate sales price of the item and all other items pertaining to the same trip or event that are sold in the same transaction (or related transactions) exceeds $10,000.
(10) Retail sale. The term retail sale means any sale (whether for resale or for any other purpose) made in the course of a trade or business if that trade or business principally consists of making sales to ultimate consumers.
Retail sale.
The term
retail sale
means any sale (whether for resale or for any other purpose) made in the course of a trade or business if that trade or business principally consists of making sales to ultimate consumers.
(11) Trade or business. The term trade or business has the same meaning as under section 162 of title 26, United States Code.
Trade or business.
The term
trade or business
has the same meaning as under section 162 of title 26, United States Code.
(12) Transaction. (i) Solely for purposes of 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section, the term transaction means the underlying event precipitating the payer's transfer of currency to the recipient. In this context, transactions include (but are not limited to) a sale of goods or services; a sale of real property; a sale of intangible property; a rental of real or personal property; an exchange of currency for other currency; the establishment or maintenance of or contribution to a custodial, trust, or escrow arrangement; a payment of a preexisting debt; a conversion of currency to a negotiable instrument; a reimbursement for expenses paid; or the making or repayment of a loan. A transaction may not be divided into multiple transactions in order to avoid reporting under this section.
Transaction.
(i) Solely for purposes of 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section, the term
transaction
means the underlying event precipitating the payer's transfer of currency to the recipient. In this context, transactions include (but are not limited to) a sale of goods or services; a sale of real property; a sale of intangible property; a rental of real or personal property; an exchange of currency for other currency; the establishment or maintenance of or contribution to a custodial, trust, or escrow arrangement; a payment of a preexisting debt; a conversion of currency to a negotiable instrument; a reimbursement for expenses paid; or the making or repayment of a loan. A transaction may not be divided into multiple transactions in order to avoid reporting under this section.
(ii) The term related transactions means any transaction conducted between a payer (or its agent) and a recipient of currency in a 24-hour period. Additionally, transactions conducted between a payer (or its agent) and a currency recipient during a period of more than 24 hours are related if the recipient knows or has reason to know that each transaction is one of a series of connected transactions.
related transactions
means any transaction conducted between a payer (or its agent) and a recipient of currency in a 24-hour period. Additionally, transactions conducted between a payer (or its agent) and a currency recipient during a period of more than 24 hours are related if the recipient knows or has reason to know that each transaction is one of a series of connected transactions.
(iii) The following examples illustrate the definition of paragraphs (c)(12)(i) and (ii) of this section:
Example 1.
A person has a tacit agreement with a gold dealer to purchase $36,000 in gold bullion. The $36,000 purchase represents a single transaction under paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section and the reporting requirements of this section cannot be avoided by recasting the single sales transaction into 4 separate $9,000 sales transactions.
Example 2.
An attorney agrees to represent a client in a criminal case with the attorney's fee to be determined on an hourly basis. In the first month in which the attorney represents the client, the bill for the attorney's services comes to $8,000 which the client pays in currency. In the second month in which the attorney represents the client, the bill for the attorney's services comes to $4,000, which the client again pays in currency. The aggregate amount of currency paid ($12,000) relates to a single transaction as defined in paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section, the sale of legal services relating to the criminal case, and the receipt of currency must be reported under this section.
Example 3.
A person intends to contribute a total of $45,000 to a trust fund, and the trustee of the fund knows or has reason to know of that intention. The $45,000 contribution is a single transaction under paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section and the reporting requirement of this section cannot be avoided by the grantor's making five separate $9,000 contributions of currency to a single fund or by making five $9,000 contributions of currency to five separate funds administered by a common trustee.
Example 4.
K, an individual, attends a one day auction and purchases for currency two items, at a cost of $9,240 and $1,732.50 respectively (tax and buyer's premium included). Because the transactions are related transactions as defined in paragraph (c)(12)(ii) of this section, the auction house is required to report the aggregate amount of currency received from the related sales ($10,972.50), even though the auction house accounts separately on its books for each item sold and presents the purchaser with separate bills for each item purchased.
Example 5.
F, a coin dealer, sells for currency $9,000 worth of gold coins to an individual on three successive days. Under paragraph (c)(12)(ii) of this section the three $9,000 transactions are related transactions aggregating $27,000 if F knows, or has reason to know, that each transaction is one of a series of connected transactions.
(13) Recipient. (i) The term recipient means the person receiving the currency. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(13)(ii) of this section, each store, division, branch, department, headquarters, or office (“branch”) (regardless of physical location) comprising a portion of a person's trade or business shall for purposes of this section be deemed a separate recipient.
Recipient.
(i) The term
recipient
means the person receiving the currency. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(13)(ii) of this section, each store, division, branch, department, headquarters, or office (“branch”) (regardless of physical location) comprising a portion of a person's trade or business shall for purposes of this section be deemed a separate recipient.
(ii) A branch that receives currency payments will not be deemed a separate recipient if the branch (or a central unit linking such branch with other branches) would in the ordinary course of business have reason to know the identity of payers making currency payments to other branches of such person.
(iii) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of the rules in paragraphs (c)(13)(i) and (ii) of this section:
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of the rules in paragraphs (c)(13)(i) and (ii) of this section:
Example 1.
N, an individual, purchases regulated futures contracts at a cost of $7,500 and $5,000, respectively, through two different branches of Commodities Broker X on the same day. N pays for each purchase with currency. Each branch of Commodities Broker X transmits the sales information regarding each of N's purchases to a central unit of Commodities Broker X (which settles the transactions against N's account). Under paragraph (c)(13)(ii) of this section the separate branches of Commodities Broker X are not deemed to be separate recipients; therefore, Commodities Broker X must report with respect to the two related regulated futures contracts sales in accordance with this section.
Example 2.
P, a corporation, owns and operates a racetrack. P's racetrack contains 100 betting windows at which pari-mutuel wagers may be made. R, an individual, places currency wagers of $3,000 each at five separate betting windows. Assuming that in the ordinary course of business each betting window (or a central unit linking windows) does not have reason to know the identity of persons making wagers at other betting windows, each betting window would be deemed to be a separate currency recipient under paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section. As no individual recipient received currency in excess of $10,000, no report need be made by P under this section.
(d) Exceptions to the reporting requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5331—(1) Receipt is made with respect to a foreign currency transaction—(i) In general. Generally, there is no requirement to report with respect to a currency transaction if the entire transaction occurs outside the United States (the fifty states and the District of Columbia). An entire transaction consists of both the transaction as defined in paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section and the receipt of currency by the recipient. If, however, any part of an entire transaction occurs in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a possession or territory of the United States and the recipient of currency in that transaction is subject to the general jurisdiction of the Internal Revenue Service under title 26 of the United States Code, the recipient is required to report the transaction under this section.
Exceptions to the reporting requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5331
—(1)
Receipt is made with respect to a foreign currency transaction
—(i)
In general.
Generally, there is no requirement to report with respect to a currency transaction if the entire transaction occurs outside the United States (the fifty states and the District of Columbia). An entire transaction consists of both the transaction as defined in paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section and the receipt of currency by the recipient. If, however, any part of an entire transaction occurs in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or a possession or territory of the United States and the recipient of currency in that transaction is subject to the general jurisdiction of the Internal Revenue Service under title 26 of the United States Code, the recipient is required to report the transaction under this section.
(ii) Example. The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section:
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section:
Example.
W, an individual engaged in the trade or business of selling aircraft, reaches an agreement to sell an airplane to a U.S. citizen living in Mexico. The agreement, no portion of which is formulated in the United States, calls for a purchase price of $125,000 and requires delivery of and payment for the airplane to be made in Mexico. Upon delivery of the airplane in Mexico, W receives $125,000 in currency. W is not required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 or this section because the exception provided in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section (“foreign transaction exception”) applies. If, however, any part of the agreement to sell had been formulated in the United States, the foreign transaction exception would not apply and W would be required to report the receipt of currency under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
(2) Receipt of currency not in the course of the recipient's trade or business. The receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 by a person other than in the course of the person's trade or business is not reportable under 31 U.S.C. 5331. Thus, for example, F, an individual in the trade or business of selling real estate, sells a motorboat for $12,000, the purchase price of which is paid in currency. F did not use the motorboat in any trade or business in which F was engaged. F is not required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 or this section because the exception provided in this paragraph (d)(2) applies.
Receipt of currency not in the course of the recipient's trade or business.
The receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 by a person other than in the course of the person's trade or business is not reportable under 31 U.S.C. 5331. Thus, for example, F, an individual in the trade or business of selling real estate, sells a motorboat for $12,000, the purchase price of which is paid in currency. F did not use the motorboat in any trade or business in which F was engaged. F is not required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 or this section because the exception provided in this paragraph (d)(2) applies.
(e) Time, manner, and form of reporting—(1) In general. The reports required by paragraph (a) of this section must be made by filing a Form 8300, as specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-1(e)(2). The reports must be filed at the time and in the manner specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-1(e)(1) and (3) respectively.
Time, manner, and form of reporting
—(1)
In general.
The reports required by paragraph (a) of this section must be made by filing a Form 8300, as specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-1(e)(2). The reports must be filed at the time and in the manner specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-1(e)(1) and (3) respectively.
(2) Verification. A person making a report of information under this section must verify the identity of the person from whom the reportable currency is received. Verification of the identity of a person who purports to be an alien must be made by examination of such person's passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence. Verification of the identity of any other person may be made by examination of a document normally acceptable as a means of identification when cashing or accepting checks (for example, a driver's license or a credit card). In addition, a report will be considered incomplete if the person required to make a report knows (or has reason to know) that an agent is conducting the transaction for a principal, and the return does not identify both the principal and the agent.
Verification.
A person making a report of information under this section must verify the identity of the person from whom the reportable currency is received. Verification of the identity of a person who purports to be an alien must be made by examination of such person's passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence. Verification of the identity of any other person may be made by examination of a document normally acceptable as a means of identification when cashing or accepting checks (for example, a driver's license or a credit card). In addition, a report will be considered incomplete if the person required to make a report knows (or has reason to know) that an agent is conducting the transaction for a principal, and the return does not identify both the principal and the agent.
(3) Retention of reports. A person required to make a report under this section must keep a copy of each report filed for five years from the date of filing.
Retention of reports.
A person required to make a report under this section must keep a copy of each report filed for five years from the date of filing.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 33637, June 7, 2012]]

§ 1010.331   Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received as bail by court clerks.

(a) Reporting requirement—(1) In general. Any clerk of a Federal or State court who receives more than $10,000 in currency as bail for any individual charged with a specified criminal offense must make a report of information with respect to that receipt of currency. For purposes of this section, a clerk is the clerk's office or the office, department, division, branch, or unit of the court that is authorized to receive bail. If someone other than a clerk receives bail on behalf of a clerk, the clerk is treated as receiving the bail for purposes of this paragraph (a).
Reporting requirement
—(1)
In general.
Any clerk of a Federal or State court who receives more than $10,000 in currency as bail for any individual charged with a specified criminal offense must make a report of information with respect to that receipt of currency. For purposes of this section, a clerk is the clerk's office or the office, department, division, branch, or unit of the court that is authorized to receive bail. If someone other than a clerk receives bail on behalf of a clerk, the clerk is treated as receiving the bail for purposes of this paragraph (a).
(2) Certain financial transactions. Section 6050I of title 26 of the United States Code requires clerks to report information about financial transactions to the IRS, and 31 U.S.C. 5331 require clerks to report the same information to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. This information shall be reported on the same form as prescribed by the Secretary.
Certain financial transactions.
Section 6050I of title 26 of the United States Code requires clerks to report information about financial transactions to the IRS, and 31 U.S.C. 5331 require clerks to report the same information to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. This information shall be reported on the same form as prescribed by the Secretary.
(b) Meaning of terms. The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—
Meaning of terms.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section—
(1) The term currency means—
currency
means—
(i) The coin and currency of the United States, or of any other country, that circulate in and are customarily used and accepted as money in the country in which issued; and
(ii) A cashier's check (by whatever name called, including treasurer's check and bank check), bank draft, traveler's check, or money order having a face amount of not more than $ 10,000.
(2) The term specified criminal offense means—
specified criminal offense
means—
(i) A Federal criminal offense involving a controlled substance (as defined in section 802 of title 21 of the United States Code), provided the offense is described in Part D of Subchapter I or Subchapter II of title 21 of the United States Code;
(ii) Racketeering (as defined in section 1951, 1952, or 1955 of title 18 of the United States Code);
(iii) Money laundering (as defined in section 1956 or 1957 of title 18 of the United States Code); and
(iv) Any State criminal offense substantially similar to an offense described in this paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Time, form, and manner of reporting.—(1) In general. The reports required by paragraph (a) of this section must be made by filing a Form 8300, as specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(2). The report must be filed at the time and in the manner specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(1) and (3), respectively.
Time, form, and manner of reporting.
—(1)
In general.
The reports required by paragraph (a) of this section must be made by filing a Form 8300, as specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(2). The report must be filed at the time and in the manner specified in 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(1) and (3), respectively.
(2) Verification of identity. A clerk required to make a report under this section must, in accordance with 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(3)(ii), verify the identity of each payor of bail listed in the report.
Verification of identity.
A clerk required to make a report under this section must, in accordance with 26 CFR 1.6050I-2(c)(3)(ii), verify the identity of each payor of bail listed in the report.
[[77 FR 33637, June 7, 2012]]

§ 1010.340   Reports of transportation of currency or monetary instruments.

(a) Each person who physically transports, mails, or ships, or causes to be physically transported, mailed, or shipped, or attempts to physically transport, mail or ship, or attempts to cause to be physically transported, mailed or shipped, currency or other monetary instruments in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000 at one time from the United States to any place outside the United States, or into the United States from any place outside the United States, shall make a report thereof. A person is deemed to have caused such transportation, mailing or shipping when he aids, abets, counsels, commands, procures, or requests it to be done by a financial institution or any other person.
(b) Each person who receives in the U.S. currency or other monetary instruments in an aggregate amount exceeding $10,000 at one time which have been transported, mailed, or shipped to such person from any place outside the United States with respect to which a report has not been filed under paragraph (a) of this section, whether or not required to be filed thereunder, shall make a report thereof, stating the amount, the date of receipt, the form of monetary instruments, and the person from whom received.
(c) This section shall not require reports by:
(1) A Federal Reserve;
(2) A bank, a foreign bank, or a broker or dealer in securities, in respect to currency or other monetary instruments mailed or shipped through the postal service or by common carrier;
(3) A commercial bank or trust company organized under the laws of any State or of the United States with respect to overland shipments of currency or monetary instruments shipped to or received from an established customer maintaining a deposit relationship with the bank, in amounts which the bank may reasonably conclude do not exceed amounts commensurate with the customary conduct of the business, industry or profession of the customer concerned;
(4) A person who is not a citizen or resident of the United States in respect to currency or other monetary instruments mailed or shipped from abroad to a bank or broker or dealer in securities through the postal service or by common carrier;
(5) A common carrier of passengers in respect to currency or other monetary instruments in the possession of its passengers;
(6) A common carrier of goods in respect to shipments of currency or monetary instruments not declared to be such by the shipper;
(7) A travelers' check issuer or its agent in respect to the transportation of travelers' checks prior to their delivery to selling agents for eventual sale to the public;
(8) By a person with respect to a restrictively endorsed traveler's check that is in the collection and reconciliation process after the traveler's check has been negotiated;
(9) Nor by a person engaged as a business in the transportation of currency, monetary instruments and other commercial papers with respect to the transportation of currency or other monetary instruments overland between established offices of banks or brokers or dealers in securities and foreign persons.
(d) A transfer of funds through normal banking procedures which does not involve the physical transportation of currency or monetary instruments is not required to be reported by this section. This section does not require that more than one report be filed covering a particular transportation, mailing or shipping of currency or other monetary instruments with respect to which a complete and truthful report has been filed by a person. However, no person required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section to file a report shall be excused from liability for failure to do so if, in fact, a complete and truthful report has not been filed.

§ 1010.350   Reports of foreign financial accounts.

(a) In general. Each United States person having a financial interest in, or signature or other authority over, a bank, securities, or other financial account in a foreign country shall report such relationship to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for each year in which such relationship exists and shall provide such information as shall be specified in a reporting form prescribed under 31 U.S.C. 5314 to be filed by such persons. The form prescribed under section 5314 is the Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (TD-F 90-22.1), or any successor form. See paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section for a special rule for persons with a financial interest in 25 or more accounts, or signature or other authority over 25 or more accounts.
In general.
Each United States person having a financial interest in, or signature or other authority over, a bank, securities, or other financial account in a foreign country shall report such relationship to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for each year in which such relationship exists and shall provide such information as shall be specified in a reporting form prescribed under 31 U.S.C. 5314 to be filed by such persons. The form prescribed under section 5314 is the Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts (TD-F 90-22.1), or any successor form.
See
paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section for a special rule for persons with a financial interest in 25 or more accounts, or signature or other authority over 25 or more accounts.
(b) United States person. For purposes of this section, the term “United States person” means—
United States person.
For purposes of this section, the term “United States person” means—
(1) A citizen of the United States;
(2) A resident of the United States. A resident of the United States is an individual who is a resident alien under 26 U.S.C. 7701(b) and the regulations thereunder but using the definition of “United States” provided in 31 CFR 1010.100(hhh) rather than the definition of “United States” in 26 CFR 301.7701(b)-1(c)(2)(ii); and
(3) An entity, including but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, trust, or limited liability company created, organized, or formed under the laws of the United States, any State, the District of Columbia, the Territories and Insular Possessions of the United States, or the Indian Tribes.
(c) Types of reportable accounts. For purposes of this section—
Types of reportable accounts.
For purposes of this section—
(1) Bank account. The term “bank account” means a savings deposit, demand deposit, checking, or any other account maintained with a person engaged in the business of banking.
Bank account.
The term “bank account” means a savings deposit, demand deposit, checking, or any other account maintained with a person engaged in the business of banking.
(2) Securities account. The term “securities account” means an account with a person engaged in the business of buying, selling, holding or trading stock or other securities.
Securities account.
The term “securities account” means an account with a person engaged in the business of buying, selling, holding or trading stock or other securities.
(3) Other financial account. The term “other financial account” means—
Other financial account.
The term “other financial account” means—
(i) An account with a person that is in the business of accepting deposits as a financial agency;
(ii) An account that is an insurance or annuity policy with a cash value;
(iii) An account with a person that acts as a broker or dealer for futures or options transactions in any commodity on or subject to the rules of a commodity exchange or association; or
(iv) An account with—
(A) Mutual fund or similar pooled fund. A mutual fund or similar pooled fund which issues shares available to the general public that have a regular net asset value determination and regular redemptions; or
Mutual fund or similar pooled fund.
A mutual fund or similar pooled fund which issues shares available to the general public that have a regular net asset value determination and regular redemptions; or
(B) Other investment fund. [Reserved]
Other investment fund.
[Reserved]
(4) Exceptions for certain accounts. (i) An account of a department or agency of the United States, an Indian Tribe, or any State or any political subdivision of a State, or a wholly-owned entity, agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing is not required to be reported. In addition, reporting is not required with respect to an account of an entity established under the laws of the United States, of an Indian Tribe, of any State, or of any political subdivision of any State, or under an intergovernmental compact between two or more States or Indian Tribes, that exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, an Indian Tribe, or any such State or political subdivision. For this purpose, an entity generally exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, an Indian Tribe, a State, or a political subdivision only if its authorities include one or more of the powers to tax, to exercise the power of eminent domain, or to exercise police powers with respect to matters within its jurisdiction.
Exceptions for certain accounts.
(i) An account of a department or agency of the United States, an Indian Tribe, or any State or any political subdivision of a State, or a wholly-owned entity, agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing is not required to be reported. In addition, reporting is not required with respect to an account of an entity established under the laws of the United States, of an Indian Tribe, of any State, or of any political subdivision of any State, or under an intergovernmental compact between two or more States or Indian Tribes, that exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, an Indian Tribe, or any such State or political subdivision. For this purpose, an entity generally exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, an Indian Tribe, a State, or a political subdivision only if its authorities include one or more of the powers to tax, to exercise the power of eminent domain, or to exercise police powers with respect to matters within its jurisdiction.
(ii) An account of an international financial institution of which the United States government is a member is not required to be reported.
(iii) An account in an institution known as a “United States military banking facility” (or “United States military finance facility”) operated by a United States financial institution designated by the United States Government to serve United States government installations abroad is not required to be reported even though the United States military banking facility is located in a foreign country.
(iv) Correspondent or nostro accounts that are maintained by banks and used solely for bank-to-bank settlements are not required to be reported.
(d) Foreign country. A foreign country includes all geographical areas located outside of the United States as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(hhh).
Foreign country.
A foreign country includes all geographical areas located outside of the United States as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(hhh).
(e) Financial interest. A financial interest in a bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country means an interest described in this paragraph (e):
Financial interest.
A financial interest in a bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country means an interest described in this paragraph (e):
(1) Owner of record or holder of legal title. A United States person has a financial interest in each bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country for which he is the owner of record or has legal title whether the account is maintained for his own benefit or for the benefit of others. If an account is maintained in the name of more than one person, each United States person in whose name the account is maintained has a financial interest in that account.
Owner of record or holder of legal title.
A United States person has a financial interest in each bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country for which he is the owner of record or has legal title whether the account is maintained for his own benefit or for the benefit of others. If an account is maintained in the name of more than one person, each United States person in whose name the account is maintained has a financial interest in that account.
(2) Other financial interest. A United States person has a financial interest in each bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country for which the owner of record or holder of legal title is—
Other financial interest.
A United States person has a financial interest in each bank, securities or other financial account in a foreign country for which the owner of record or holder of legal title is—
(i) A person acting as an agent, nominee, attorney or in some other capacity on behalf of the United States person with respect to the account;
(ii) A corporation in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the voting power or the total value of the shares, a partnership in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the interest in profits or capital, or any other entity (other than an entity in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii) through (iv) of this section) in which the United States person owns directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the voting power, total value of the equity interest or assets, or interest in profits;
(iii) A trust, if the United States person is the trust grantor and has an ownership interest in the trust for United States Federal tax purposes. See 26 U.S.C. 671-679 and the regulations thereunder to determine if a grantor has an ownership interest in the trust for the year; or
See
26 U.S.C. 671-679 and the regulations thereunder to determine if a grantor has an ownership interest in the trust for the year; or
(iv) A trust in which the United States person either has a present beneficial interest in more than 50 percent of the assets or from which such person receives more than 50 percent of the current income.
(3) Anti-avoidance rule. A United States person that causes an entity, including but not limited to a corporation, partnership, or trust, to be created for a purpose of evading this section shall have a financial interest in any bank, securities, or other financial account in a foreign country for which the entity is the owner of record or holder of legal title.
Anti-avoidance rule.
A United States person that causes an entity, including but not limited to a corporation, partnership, or trust, to be created for a purpose of evading this section shall have a financial interest in any bank, securities, or other financial account in a foreign country for which the entity is the owner of record or holder of legal title.
(f) Signature or other authority—(1) In general. Signature or other authority means the authority of an individual (alone or in conjunction with another) to control the disposition of money, funds or other assets held in a financial account by direct communication (whether in writing or otherwise) to the person with whom the financial account is maintained.
Signature or other authority
—(1)
In general.
Signature or other authority means the authority of an individual (alone or in conjunction with another) to control the disposition of money, funds or other assets held in a financial account by direct communication (whether in writing or otherwise) to the person with whom the financial account is maintained.
(2) Exceptions—(i) An officer or employee of a bank that is examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the National Credit Union Administration need not report that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account owned or maintained by the bank if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account.
Exceptions
—(i) An officer or employee of a bank that is examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the National Credit Union Administration need not report that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account owned or maintained by the bank if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account.
(ii) An officer or employee of a financial institution that is registered with and examined by the Securities and Exchange Commission or Commodity Futures Trading Commission need not report that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account owned or maintained by such financial institution if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account.
(iii) An officer or employee of an Authorized Service Provider need not report that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account owned or maintained by an investment company that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account. “Authorized Service Provider” means an entity that is registered with and examined by the Securities and Exchange Commission and that provides services to an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(iv) An officer or employee of an entity with a class of equity securities listed (or American depository receipts listed) on any United States national securities exchange need not report that he has signature or other authority over a foreign financial account of such entity if the officer or employee has no financial interest in the account. An officer or employee of a United States subsidiary of a United States entity with a class of equity securities listed on a United States national securities exchange need not file a report concerning signature or other authority over a foreign financial account of the subsidiary if he has no financial interest in the account and the United States subsidiary is included in a consolidated report of the parent filed under this section.
(v) An officer or employee of an entity that has a class of equity securities registered (or American depository receipts in respect of equity securities registered) under section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act need not report that he has signature or other authority over the foreign financial accounts of such entity or if he has no financial interest in the accounts.
(g) Special rules—(1) Financial interest in 25 or more foreign financial accounts. A United States person having a financial interest in 25 or more foreign financial accounts need only provide the number of financial accounts and certain other basic information on the report, but will be required to provide detailed information concerning each account when so requested by the Secretary or his delegate.
Special rules
—(1)
Financial interest in 25 or more foreign financial accounts.
A United States person having a financial interest in 25 or more foreign financial accounts need only provide the number of financial accounts and certain other basic information on the report, but will be required to provide detailed information concerning each account when so requested by the Secretary or his delegate.
(2) Signature or other authority over 25 or more foreign financial accounts. A United States person having signature or other authority over 25 or more foreign financial accounts need only provide the number of financial accounts and certain other basic information on the report, but will be required to provide detailed information concerning each account when so requested by the Secretary or his delegate.
Signature or other authority over 25 or more foreign financial accounts.
A United States person having signature or other authority over 25 or more foreign financial accounts need only provide the number of financial accounts and certain other basic information on the report, but will be required to provide detailed information concerning each account when so requested by the Secretary or his delegate.
(3) Consolidated reports. An entity that is a United States person and which owns directly or indirectly more than a 50 percent interest in one or more other entities required to report under this section will be permitted to file a consolidated report on behalf of itself and such other entities.
Consolidated reports.
An entity that is a United States person and which owns directly or indirectly more than a 50 percent interest in one or more other entities required to report under this section will be permitted to file a consolidated report on behalf of itself and such other entities.
(4) Participants and beneficiaries in certain retirement plans. Participants and beneficiaries in retirement plans under sections 401(a), 403(a) or 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code as well as owners and beneficiaries of individual retirement accounts under section 408 of the Internal Revenue Code or Roth IRAs under section 408A of the Internal Revenue Code are not required to file an FBAR with respect to a foreign financial account held by or on behalf of the retirement plan or IRA.
Participants and beneficiaries in certain retirement plans.
Participants and beneficiaries in retirement plans under sections 401(a), 403(a) or 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code as well as owners and beneficiaries of individual retirement accounts under section 408 of the Internal Revenue Code or Roth IRAs under section 408A of the Internal Revenue Code are not required to file an FBAR with respect to a foreign financial account held by or on behalf of the retirement plan or IRA.
(5) Certain trust beneficiaries. A beneficiary of a trust described in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section is not required to report the trust's foreign financial accounts if the trust, trustee of the trust, or agent of the trust is a United States person that files a report under this section disclosing the trust's foreign financial accounts.
Certain trust beneficiaries.
A beneficiary of a trust described in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section is not required to report the trust's foreign financial accounts if the trust, trustee of the trust, or agent of the trust is a United States person that files a report under this section disclosing the trust's foreign financial accounts.
[[76 FR 10245, Feb. 24, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 37000, June 24, 2011]]

§ 1010.360   Reports of transactions with foreign financial agencies.

(a) Promulgation of reporting requirements. The Secretary, when he deems appropriate, may promulgate regulations requiring specified financial institutions to file reports of certain transactions with designated foreign financial agencies. If any such regulation is issued as a final rule without notice and opportunity for public comment, then a finding of good cause for dispensing with notice and comment in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553(b) will be included in the regulation. If any such regulation is not published in the Federal Register, then any financial institution subject to the regulation will be named and personally served or otherwise given actual notice in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553(b). If a financial institution is given notice of a reporting requirement under this section by means other than publication in the Federal Register, the Secretary may prohibit disclosure of the existence or provisions of that reporting requirement to the designated foreign financial agency or agencies and to any other party.
Promulgation of reporting requirements.
The Secretary, when he deems appropriate, may promulgate regulations requiring specified financial institutions to file reports of certain transactions with designated foreign financial agencies. If any such regulation is issued as a final rule without notice and opportunity for public comment, then a finding of good cause for dispensing with notice and comment in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553(b) will be included in the regulation. If any such regulation is not published in the
Federal Register,
then any financial institution subject to the regulation will be named and personally served or otherwise given actual notice in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553(b). If a financial institution is given notice of a reporting requirement under this section by means other than publication in the
Federal Register,
the Secretary may prohibit disclosure of the existence or provisions of that reporting requirement to the designated foreign financial agency or agencies and to any other party.
(b) Information subject to reporting requirements. A regulation promulgated pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall designate one or more of the following categories of information to be reported:
Information subject to reporting requirements.
A regulation promulgated pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall designate one or more of the following categories of information to be reported:
(1) Checks or drafts, including traveler's checks, received by respondent financial institution for collection or credit to the account of a foreign financial agency, sent by respondent financial institution to a foreign country for collection or payment, drawn by respondent financial institution on a foreign financial agency, drawn by a foreign financial agency on respondent financial institution—including the following information.
(i) Name of maker or drawer;
(ii) Name of drawee or drawee financial institution;
(iii) Name of payee;
(iv) Date and amount of instrument;
(v) Names of all endorsers.
(2) Transmittal orders received by a respondent financial institution from a foreign financial agency or sent by respondent financial institution to a foreign financial agency, including all information maintained by that institution pursuant to §§ 1010.410 and 1020.410.
(3) Loans made by respondent financial institution to or through a foreign financial agency—including the following information:
(i) Name of borrower;
(ii) Name of person acting for borrower;
(iii) Date and amount of loan;
(iv) Terms of repayment;
(v) Name of guarantor;
(vi) Rate of interest;
(vii) Method of disbursing proceeds;
(viii) Collateral for loan.
(4) Commercial paper received or shipped by the respondent financial institution—including the following information:
(i) Name of maker;
(ii) Date and amount of paper;
(iii) Due date;
(iv) Certificate number;
(v) Amount of transaction.
(5) Stocks received or shipped by respondent financial institution—including the following information:
(i) Name of corporation;
(ii) Type of stock;
(iii) Certificate number;
(iv) Number of shares;
(v) Date of certificate;
(vi) Name of registered holder;
(vii) Amount of transaction.
(6) Bonds received or shipped by respondent financial institution—including the following information:
(i) Name of issuer;
(ii) Bond number;
(iii) Type of bond series;
(iv) Date issued;
(v) Due date;
(vi) Rate of interest;
(vii) Amount of transaction;
(viii) Name of registered holder.
(7) Certificates of deposit received or shipped by respondent financial institution—including the following information:
(i) Name and address of issuer;
(ii) Date issued;
(iii) Dollar amount;
(iv) Name of registered holder;
(v) Due date;
(vi) Rate of interest;
(vii) Certificate number;
(viii) Name and address of issuing agent.
(c) Scope of reports. In issuing regulations as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will prescribe:
Scope of reports.
In issuing regulations as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will prescribe:
(1) A reasonable classification of financial institutions subject to or exempt from a reporting requirement;
(2) A foreign country to which a reporting requirement applies if the Secretary decides that applying the requirement to all foreign countries is unnecessary or undesirable;
(3) The magnitude of transactions subject to a reporting requirement; and
(4) The kind of transaction subject to or exempt from a reporting requirement.
(d) Form of reports. Regulations issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may prescribe the manner in which the information is to be reported. However, the Secretary may authorize a designated financial institution to report in a different manner if the institution demonstrates to the Secretary that the form of the required report is unnecessarily burdensome on the institution as prescribed; that a report in a different form will provide all the information the Secretary deems necessary; and that submission of the information in a different manner will not unduly hinder the effective administration of this chapter.
Form of reports.
Regulations issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may prescribe the manner in which the information is to be reported. However, the Secretary may authorize a designated financial institution to report in a different manner if the institution demonstrates to the Secretary that the form of the required report is unnecessarily burdensome on the institution as prescribed; that a report in a different form will provide all the information the Secretary deems necessary; and that submission of the information in a different manner will not unduly hinder the effective administration of this chapter.
(e) Limitations. (1) In issuing regulations under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary shall consider the need to avoid impeding or controlling the export or import of monetary instruments and the need to avoid burdening unreasonably a person making a transaction with a foreign financial agency.
Limitations.
(1) In issuing regulations under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary shall consider the need to avoid impeding or controlling the export or import of monetary instruments and the need to avoid burdening unreasonably a person making a transaction with a foreign financial agency.
(2) The Secretary shall not issue a regulation under paragraph (a) of this section for the purpose of obtaining individually identifiable account information concerning a customer, as defined by the Right to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.), where that customer is already the subject of an ongoing investigation for possible violation of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, or is known by the Secretary to be the subject of an investigation for possible violation of any other Federal law.
et seq.
), where that customer is already the subject of an ongoing investigation for possible violation of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, or is known by the Secretary to be the subject of an investigation for possible violation of any other Federal law.
(3) The Secretary may issue a regulation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section requiring a financial institution to report transactions completed prior to the date it received notice of the reporting requirement. However, with respect to completed transactions, a financial institution may be required to provide information only from records required to be maintained pursuant to the requirements of this chapter, or any other provision of state or Federal law, or otherwise maintained in the regular course of business.

§ 1010.370   Reports of certain domestic transactions.

(a)(1) If the Secretary of the Treasury finds, upon the Secretary's own initiative or at the request of an appropriate Federal or State law enforcement official, that reasonable grounds exist for concluding that additional recordkeeping and/or reporting requirements are necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter or to prevent persons from evading the reporting/recordkeeping requirements of this chapter, the Secretary may issue an order requiring any domestic financial institution or group of domestic financial institutions, or any domestic nonfinancial trade or business or group of domestic nonfinancial trades or businesses, in a geographic area, and any other person participating in the type of transaction, to file a report in the manner and to the extent specified in such order. The order shall contain such information as the Secretary may describe concerning any transaction in which such financial institution or group of domestic financial institutions, or domestic nonfinancial trade or business or group of domestic nonfinancial trades or businesses is involved for the payment, receipt, or transfer of funds (as the Secretary may describe in such order) the total amounts or denominations of which are equal to or greater than an amount which the Secretary may prescribe.
(2) The Secretary may, by regulation or order, require any depository institution (as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)—
(i) To request any financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business (other than a depository institution) which engages in any reportable transaction with the depository institution to provide the depository institution with a copy of any report filed by the financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business under the Title 31 provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act with respect to any prior transaction (between such financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business and any other person) which involved any portion of the funds which are involved in the reportable transaction with the depository institution; and
(ii) If no copy of any report described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is received by the depository institution in connection with any reportable transaction to which paragraph (a)(2)(i) applies, to submit (in addition to any report required under this subchapter with respect to the reportable transaction) a written notice to the Secretary that the financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business failed to provide any copy of such report.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the term reportable transaction means any transaction involving funds (as the Secretary may describe in the regulation or order) the total amounts or denominations of which are equal to or greater than an amount which the Secretary may prescribe.
reportable transaction
means any transaction involving funds (as the Secretary may describe in the regulation or order) the total amounts or denominations of which are equal to or greater than an amount which the Secretary may prescribe.
(b) An order issued under paragraph (a) of this section shall be directed to the Chief Executive Officer of the financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business and shall designate one or more of the following categories of information to be reported: Each deposit, withdrawal, exchange of funds or other payment or transfer, by, through or to such financial institution specified in the order, which involves all or any class of transactions in funds equal to or exceeding an amount specified in the order.
(c) In issuing an order under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will prescribe:
(1) The dollar amount of transactions subject to the reporting requirement in the order;
(2) The type of transaction or transactions subject to or exempt from a reporting requirement in the order;
(3) The appropriate form for reporting the transactions required in the order;
(4) The address to which reports required in the order are to be sent or from which they will be picked up;
(5) The starting and ending dates by which such transactions specified in the order are to be reported;
(6) The name of a Treasury official to be contacted for any additional information or questions;
(7) The amount of time the reports and records of reports generated in response to the order will have to be retained by the financial institution; and
(8) Any other information deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of the order.
(d)(1) No order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall prescribe a reporting period of more than 180 days unless renewed pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (a).
(2) Any revisions to an order issued under this section will not be effective until made in writing by the Secretary.
(3) Unless otherwise specified in the order, a bank receiving an order under this section may continue to use the exemptions granted under § 1020.315 of this chapter prior to the receipt of the order, but may not grant additional exemptions.
(4) For purposes of this section, the term geographic area means any area in one or more States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the territories and possessions of the United States, and/or political subdivision or subdivisions thereof, as specified in an order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
geographic area
means any area in one or more States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the territories and possessions of the United States, and/or political subdivision or subdivisions thereof, as specified in an order issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) No financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business or officer, director, employee, or agent of a financial institution or nonfinancial trade or business subject to an order under this section may disclose the existence of, or terms of, the order to any person except as prescribed by the Secretary.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 62915, Nov. 15, 2021]]

§ 1010.380   Reports of beneficial ownership information.

(a) Reports required; timing of reports—(1) Initial report. Each reporting company shall file an initial report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b) of this section as follows:
Reports required; timing of reports
—(1)
Initial report.
Each reporting company shall file an initial report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b) of this section as follows:
(i) Any entity that becomes a reporting company on or after March 26, 2025 shall file a report within 30 calendar days of the earlier of the date on which it receives actual notice that it has been registered to do business or the date on which a secretary of state or similar office first provides public notice, such as through a publicly accessible registry, that the reporting company has been registered to do business.
(ii) Any entity that became a reporting company before March 26, 2025 shall file a report no later than April 25, 2025.
(iii) Any entity that no longer meets the criteria for any exemption under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall file a report within 30 calendar days after the date that it no longer meets the criteria for any exemption.
(2) Updated report. (i) If there is any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN concerning a reporting company or its beneficial owners, including any change with respect to who is a beneficial owner or information reported for any particular beneficial owner, the reporting company shall file an updated report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section within 30 calendar days after the date on which such change occurs.
Updated report.
(i) If there is any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN concerning a reporting company or its beneficial owners, including any change with respect to who is a beneficial owner or information reported for any particular beneficial owner, the reporting company shall file an updated report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section within 30 calendar days after the date on which such change occurs.
(ii) If a reporting company meets the criteria for any exemption under paragraph (c)(2) of this section subsequent to the filing of an initial report, this change will be deemed a change with respect to information previously submitted to FinCEN, and the entity shall file an updated report.
(iii) If an individual is a beneficial owner of a reporting company by virtue of property interests or other rights subject to transfer upon death, and such individual dies, a change with respect to required information will be deemed to occur when the estate of the deceased beneficial owner is settled, either through the operation of the intestacy laws of a jurisdiction within the United States or through a testamentary deposition. The updated report shall, to the extent appropriate, identify any new beneficial owners.
(iv) If a reporting company has reported information with respect to a parent or legal guardian of a minor child pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (d)(3)(i) of this section, a change with respect to required information will be deemed to occur when the minor child attains the age of majority.
(v) With respect to an image of an identifying document required to be reported pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section, a change with respect to required information will be deemed to occur when the name, date of birth, address, or unique identifying number on such document changes.
(vi) Paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section shall only apply to reporting companies after March 26, 2025.
(3)(i) Corrected report. If any report under this section was inaccurate when filed and remains inaccurate, the reporting company shall file a corrected report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b) of this section within 30 calendar days after the date on which such reporting company becomes aware or has reason to know of the inaccuracy. A corrected report filed under this paragraph (a)(3) within this 30-day period shall be deemed to satisfy 31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(C)(i)(I)(bb) if filed within 90 calendar days after the date on which the inaccurate report was filed.
Corrected report.
If any report under this section was inaccurate when filed and remains inaccurate, the reporting company shall file a corrected report in the form and manner specified in paragraph (b) of this section within 30 calendar days after the date on which such reporting company becomes aware or has reason to know of the inaccuracy. A corrected report filed under this paragraph (a)(3) within this 30-day period shall be deemed to satisfy 31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(C)(i)(I)(bb) if filed within 90 calendar days after the date on which the inaccurate report was filed.
(ii) Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall only apply to reporting companies after March 26, 2025.
(b) Content, form, and manner of reports. Each report or application submitted under this section shall be filed with FinCEN in the form and manner that FinCEN shall prescribe in the forms and instructions for such report or application, and each person filing such report or application shall certify that the report or application is true, correct, and complete.
Content, form, and manner of reports.
Each report or application submitted under this section shall be filed with FinCEN in the form and manner that FinCEN shall prescribe in the forms and instructions for such report or application, and each person filing such report or application shall certify that the report or application is true, correct, and complete.
(1) Initial report. An initial report of a reporting company shall include the following information:
Initial report.
An initial report of a reporting company shall include the following information:
(i) For the reporting company:
(A) The full legal name of the reporting company;
(B) Any trade name or “doing business as” name of the reporting company;
(C) A complete current address consisting of:
(1) In the case of a reporting company with a principal place of business in the United States, the street address of such principal place of business; and
1
) In the case of a reporting company with a principal place of business in the United States, the street address of such principal place of business; and
(2) In all other cases, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the reporting company conducts business;
2
) In all other cases, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the reporting company conducts business;
(D) The foreign jurisdiction of formation of the reporting company;
(E) The State or Tribal jurisdiction where the reporting company first registers; and
(F) The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (including an Employer Identification Number (EIN)) of the reporting company, or where a reporting company has not been issued a TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
(ii) For every individual who is a beneficial owner of such reporting company, and every individual who is a company applicant with respect to such reporting company:
(A) The full legal name of the individual;
(B) The date of birth of the individual;
(C) A complete current address consisting of:
(1) In the case of a company applicant who forms or registers an entity in the course of such company applicant's business, the street address of such business; or
1
) In the case of a company applicant who forms or registers an entity in the course of such company applicant's business, the street address of such business; or
(2) In any other case, the individual's residential street address;
2
) In any other case, the individual's residential street address;
(D) A unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from one of the following documents:
(1) A non-expired passport issued to the individual by the United States government;
1
) A non-expired passport issued to the individual by the United States government;
(2) A non-expired identification document issued to the individual by a State, local government, or Indian tribe for the purpose of identifying the individual;
2
) A non-expired identification document issued to the individual by a State, local government, or Indian tribe for the purpose of identifying the individual;
(3) A non-expired driver's license issued to the individual by a State; or
3
) A non-expired driver's license issued to the individual by a State; or
(4) A non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual, if the individual does not possess any of the documents described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D)(1), (b)(1)(ii)(D)(2), or (b)(1)(ii)(D)(3) of this section; and
4
) A non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual, if the individual does not possess any of the documents described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D)(
1
), (b)(1)(ii)(D)(
2
), or (b)(1)(ii)(D)(
3
) of this section; and
(E) An image of the document from which the unique identifying number in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D) of this section was obtained.
(2) Special rules—(i) Reporting company owned by exempt entity. If one or more exempt entities under paragraph (c)(2) of this section has or will have a direct or indirect ownership interest in a reporting company and an individual is a beneficial owner of the reporting company exclusively by virtue of the individual's ownership interest in such exempt entities, the report may include the names of the exempt entities in lieu of the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to such beneficial owner.
Special rules
—(i)
Reporting company owned by exempt entity.
If one or more exempt entities under paragraph (c)(2) of this section has or will have a direct or indirect ownership interest in a reporting company and an individual is a beneficial owner of the reporting company exclusively by virtue of the individual's ownership interest in such exempt entities, the report may include the names of the exempt entities in lieu of the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to such beneficial owner.
(ii) Minor child. If a reporting company reports the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to a parent or legal guardian of a minor child consistent with paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, then the report shall indicate that such information relates to a parent or legal guardian.
Minor child.
If a reporting company reports the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to a parent or legal guardian of a minor child consistent with paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, then the report shall indicate that such information relates to a parent or legal guardian.
(iii) Foreign pooled investment vehicle. If an entity would be a reporting company but for paragraph (c)(2)(xviii) of this section, and is formed under the laws of a foreign country, such entity shall be deemed a reporting company for purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, except the report shall include the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section solely with respect to an individual who exercises substantial control over the entity if that individual is not a United States person. If more than one individual exercises substantial control over the entity and at least one of those individuals is not a United States person, the entity shall report information with respect to the individual who is not a United States person who has the greatest authority over the strategic management of the entity.
Foreign pooled investment vehicle.
If an entity would be a reporting company but for paragraph (c)(2)(xviii) of this section, and is formed under the laws of a foreign country, such entity shall be deemed a reporting company for purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, except the report shall include the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section solely with respect to an individual who exercises substantial control over the entity if that individual is not a United States person. If more than one individual exercises substantial control over the entity and at least one of those individuals is not a United States person, the entity shall report information with respect to the individual who is not a United States person who has the greatest authority over the strategic management of the entity.
(iv) Company applicant for existing companies. Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, if a reporting company was created or registered before January 1, 2024, the reporting company shall report that fact, but is not required to report information with respect to any company applicant.
Company applicant for existing companies.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, if a reporting company was created or registered before January 1, 2024, the reporting company shall report that fact, but is not required to report information with respect to any company applicant.
(3) Contents of updated or corrected reports—(i) Updated reports—in general. An updated report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall reflect any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN concerning a reporting company or its beneficial owners.
Contents of updated or corrected reports
—(i)
Updated reports—in general.
An updated report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall reflect any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN concerning a reporting company or its beneficial owners.
(ii) Updated reports—newly exempt entities. An updated report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall indicate that the filing entity is no longer a reporting company.
Updated reports—newly exempt entities.
An updated report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall indicate that the filing entity is no longer a reporting company.
(iii) Corrected reports. A corrected report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall correct all inaccuracies in the information previously reported to FinCEN.
Corrected reports.
A corrected report required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall correct all inaccuracies in the information previously reported to FinCEN.
(4) FinCEN identifier—(i) Application. (A) An individual may obtain a FinCEN identifier by submitting to FinCEN an application containing the information about the individual described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
FinCEN identifier
—(i)
Application.
(A) An individual may obtain a FinCEN identifier by submitting to FinCEN an application containing the information about the individual described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(B) A reporting company may obtain a FinCEN identifier by submitting to FinCEN an application at or after the time that the entity submits an initial report required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(C) Each FinCEN identifier shall be specific to each such individual or reporting company, and each such individual or reporting company (including any successor reporting company) may obtain only one FinCEN identifier.
(ii) Use of the FinCEN identifier. (A) If an individual has obtained a FinCEN identifier and provided such FinCEN identifier to a reporting company, the reporting company may include such FinCEN identifier in its report in lieu of the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to such individual.
Use of the FinCEN identifier.
(A) If an individual has obtained a FinCEN identifier and provided such FinCEN identifier to a reporting company, the reporting company may include such FinCEN identifier in its report in lieu of the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to such individual.
(B) A reporting company may report another entity's FinCEN identifier and full legal name in lieu of the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section with respect to the beneficial owners of the reporting company only if:
(1) The other entity has obtained a FinCEN identifier and provided that FinCEN identifier to the reporting company;
1
) The other entity has obtained a FinCEN identifier and provided that FinCEN identifier to the reporting company;
(2) An individual is or may be a beneficial owner of the reporting company by virtue of an interest in the reporting company that the individual holds through an ownership interest in the other entity; and
2
) An individual is or may be a beneficial owner of the reporting company by virtue of an interest in the reporting company that the individual holds through an ownership interest in the other entity; and
(3) The beneficial owners of the other entity and of the reporting company are the same individuals.
3
) The beneficial owners of the other entity and of the reporting company are the same individuals.
(iii) Updates and corrections. (A) Any individual that has obtained a FinCEN identifier shall update or correct any information previously submitted to FinCEN in an application for such FinCEN identifier.
Updates and corrections.
(A) Any individual that has obtained a FinCEN identifier shall update or correct any information previously submitted to FinCEN in an application for such FinCEN identifier.
(1) If there is any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN in such application, the individual shall file an updated application reflecting such change within 30 calendar days after the date on which such change occurs.
1
) If there is any change with respect to required information previously submitted to FinCEN in such application, the individual shall file an updated application reflecting such change within 30 calendar days after the date on which such change occurs.
(2) If any such application was inaccurate when filed and remains inaccurate, the individual shall file a corrected application correcting all inaccuracies within 30 calendar days after the date on which the individual becomes aware or has reason to know of the inaccuracy. A corrected application filed under this paragraph within this 30-day period will be deemed to satisfy 31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(C)(i)(I)(bb) if filed within 90 calendar days after the date on which the inaccurate application was submitted.
2
) If any such application was inaccurate when filed and remains inaccurate, the individual shall file a corrected application correcting all inaccuracies within 30 calendar days after the date on which the individual becomes aware or has reason to know of the inaccuracy. A corrected application filed under this paragraph within this 30-day period will be deemed to satisfy 31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(C)(i)(I)(bb) if filed within 90 calendar days after the date on which the inaccurate application was submitted.
(B) Any reporting company that has obtained a FinCEN identifier shall file an updated or corrected report to update or correct any information previously submitted to FinCEN. Such updated or corrected report shall be filed at the same time and in the same manner as updated or corrected reports filed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Reporting company—(1) Definition of reporting company. For purposes of this section, the term “reporting company” means:
Reporting company
—(1)
Definition of reporting company.
For purposes of this section, the term “reporting company” means:
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Any entity that is:
(A) A corporation, limited liability company, or other entity;
(B) Formed under the law of a foreign country; and
(C) Registered to do business in any State or tribal jurisdiction by the filing of a document with a secretary of state or any similar office under the law of that State or Indian tribe.
(2) Exemptions. Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the term “reporting company” does not include:
Exemptions.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the term “reporting company” does not include:
(i) Securities reporting issuer. Any issuer of securities that is:
Securities reporting issuer.
Any issuer of securities that is:
(A) An issuer of a class of securities registered under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78l); or
(B) Required to file supplementary and periodic information under section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)).
(ii) Governmental authority. Any entity that:
Governmental authority.
Any entity that:
(A) Is established under the laws of the United States, an Indian tribe, a State, or a political subdivision of a State, or under an interstate compact between two or more States; and
(B) Exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States or any such Indian tribe, State, or political subdivision.
(iii) Bank. Any bank, as defined in:
Bank.
Any bank, as defined in:
(A) Section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813);
(B) Section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)); or
(C) Section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)).
(iv) Credit union. Any Federal credit union or State credit union, as those terms are defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).
Credit union.
Any Federal credit union or State credit union, as those terms are defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).
(v) Depository institution holding company. Any bank holding company as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), or any savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)).
Depository institution holding company.
Any bank holding company as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), or any savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)).
(vi) Money services business. Any money transmitting business registered with FinCEN under 31 U.S.C. 5330, and any money services business registered with FinCEN under 31 CFR 1022.380.
Money services business.
Any money transmitting business registered with FinCEN under 31 U.S.C. 5330, and any money services business registered with FinCEN under 31 CFR 1022.380.
(vii) Broker or dealer in securities. Any broker or dealer, as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), that is registered under section 15 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78o).
Broker or dealer in securities.
Any broker or dealer, as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), that is registered under section 15 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78o).
(viii) Securities exchange or clearing agency. Any exchange or clearing agency, as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), that is registered under sections 6 or 17A of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78f, 78q-1).
Securities exchange or clearing agency.
Any exchange or clearing agency, as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), that is registered under sections 6 or 17A of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78f, 78q-1).
(ix) Other Exchange Act registered entity. Any other entity not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i), (vii), or (viii) of this section that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.).
Other Exchange Act registered entity.
Any other entity not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i), (vii), or (viii) of this section that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
(x) Investment company or investment adviser. Any entity that is:
Investment company or investment adviser.
Any entity that is:
(A) An investment company as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), or is an investment adviser as defined in section 202 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2); and
(B) Registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.) or the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 et seq.).
et seq.
) or the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
).
(xi) Venture capital fund adviser. Any investment adviser that:
Venture capital fund adviser.
Any investment adviser that:
(A) Is described in section 203(l) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(l)); and
(B) Has filed Item 10, Schedule A, and Schedule B of Part 1A of Form ADV, or any successor thereto, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(xii) Insurance company. Any insurance company as defined in section 2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2).
Insurance company.
Any insurance company as defined in section 2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2).
(xiii) State-licensed insurance producer. Any entity that:
State-licensed insurance producer.
Any entity that:
(A) Is an insurance producer that is authorized by a State and subject to supervision by the insurance commissioner or a similar official or agency of a State; and
(B) Has an operating presence at a physical office within the United States.
(xiv) Commodity Exchange Act registered entity. Any entity that:
Commodity Exchange Act registered entity.
Any entity that:
(A) Is a registered entity as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a); or
(B) Is:
(1) A futures commission merchant, introducing broker, swap dealer, major swap participant, commodity pool operator, or commodity trading advisor, each as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), or a retail foreign exchange dealer as described in section 2(c)(2)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B); and
1
) A futures commission merchant, introducing broker, swap dealer, major swap participant, commodity pool operator, or commodity trading advisor, each as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), or a retail foreign exchange dealer as described in section 2(c)(2)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B); and
(2) Registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act.
2
) Registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act.
(xv) Accounting firm. Any public accounting firm registered in accordance with section 102 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7212).
Accounting firm.
Any public accounting firm registered in accordance with section 102 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7212).
(xvi) Public utility. Any entity that is a regulated public utility as defined in 26 U.S.C. 7701(a)(33)(A) or (D) that provides telecommunications services, electrical power, natural gas, or water and sewer services within the United States.
Public utility.
Any entity that is a regulated public utility as defined in 26 U.S.C. 7701(a)(33)(A) or (D) that provides telecommunications services, electrical power, natural gas, or water and sewer services within the United States.
(xvii) Financial market utility. Any financial market utility designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council under section 804 of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5463).
Financial market utility.
Any financial market utility designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council under section 804 of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5463).
(xviii) Pooled investment vehicle. Any pooled investment vehicle that is operated or advised by a person described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii), (iv), (vii), (x), or (xi) of this section.
Pooled investment vehicle.
Any pooled investment vehicle that is operated or advised by a person described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii), (iv), (vii), (x), or (xi) of this section.
(xix) Tax-exempt entity. Any entity that is:
Tax-exempt entity.
Any entity that is:
(A) An organization that is described in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Code) (determined without regard to section 508(a) of the Code) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of the Code, except that in the case of any such organization that ceases to be described in section 501(c) and exempt from tax under section 501(a), such organization shall be considered to continue to be described in this paragraph (c)(1)(xix)(A) for the 180-day period beginning on the date of the loss of such tax-exempt status;
(B) A political organization, as defined in section 527(e)(1) of the Code, that is exempt from tax under section 527(a) of the Code; or
(C) A trust described in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 4947(a) of the Code.
(xx) Entity assisting a tax-exempt entity. Any entity that:
Entity assisting a tax-exempt entity.
Any entity that:
(A) Operates exclusively to provide financial assistance to, or hold governance rights over, any entity described in paragraph (c)(2)(xix) of this section;
(B) Is a United States person;
(C) Is beneficially owned or controlled exclusively by one or more United States persons that are United States citizens or lawfully admitted for permanent residence; and
(D) Derives at least a majority of its funding or revenue from one or more United States persons that are United States citizens or lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(xxi) Large operating company. Any entity that:
Large operating company.
Any entity that:
(A) Employs more than 20 full time employees in the United States, with “full time employee in the United States” having the meaning provided in 26 CFR 54.4980H-1(a) and 54.4980H-3, except that the term “United States” as used in 26 CFR 54.4980H-1(a) and 54.4980H-3 has the meaning provided in § 1010.100(hhh);
(B) Has an operating presence at a physical office within the United States; and
(C) Filed a Federal income tax or information return in the United States for the previous year demonstrating more than $5,000,000 in gross receipts or sales, as reported as gross receipts or sales (net of returns and allowances) on the entity's IRS Form 1120, consolidated IRS Form 1120, IRS Form 1120-S, IRS Form 1065, or other applicable IRS form, excluding gross receipts or sales from sources outside the United States, as determined under Federal income tax principles. For an entity that is part of an affiliated group of corporations within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 1504 that filed a consolidated return, the applicable amount shall be the amount reported on the consolidated return for such group.
(xxii) Subsidiary of certain exempt entities. Any entity whose ownership interests are controlled or wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more entities described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vii), (viii), (ix), (x), (xi), (xii), (xiii), (xiv), (xv), (xvi), (xvii), (xix), or (xxi) of this section.
Subsidiary of certain exempt entities.
Any entity whose ownership interests are controlled or wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by one or more entities described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vii), (viii), (ix), (x), (xi), (xii), (xiii), (xiv), (xv), (xvi), (xvii), (xix), or (xxi) of this section.
(xxiii) Inactive entity. Any entity that:
Inactive entity.
Any entity that:
(A) Was in existence on or before January 1, 2020;
(B) Is not engaged in active business;
(C) Is not owned by a foreign person, whether directly or indirectly, wholly or partially;
(D) Has not experienced any change in ownership in the preceding twelve month period;
(E) Has not sent or received any funds in an amount greater than $1,000, either directly or through any financial account in which the entity or any affiliate of the entity had an interest, in the preceding twelve month period; and
(F) Does not otherwise hold any kind or type of assets, whether in the United States or abroad, including any ownership interest in any corporation, limited liability company, or other similar entity.
(xxiv) Domestic entity. Any entity that is:
Domestic entity.
Any entity that is:
(A) A corporation, limited liability company, or other entity; and
(B) Created by the filing of a document with a secretary of state or any similar office under the law of a State or Indian tribe.
(d) Beneficial owner. For purposes of this section, the term “beneficial owner,” with respect to a reporting company, means any individual who, directly or indirectly, either exercises substantial control over such reporting company or owns or controls at least 25 percent of the ownership interests of such reporting company.
Beneficial owner.
For purposes of this section, the term “beneficial owner,” with respect to a reporting company, means any individual who, directly or indirectly, either exercises substantial control over such reporting company or owns or controls at least 25 percent of the ownership interests of such reporting company.
(1) Substantial control—(i) Definition of substantial control. An individual exercises substantial control over a reporting company if the individual:
Substantial control
—(i)
Definition of substantial control.
An individual exercises substantial control over a reporting company if the individual:
(A) Serves as a senior officer of the reporting company;
(B) Has authority over the appointment or removal of any senior officer or a majority of the board of directors (or similar body);
(C) Directs, determines, or has substantial influence over important decisions made by the reporting company, including decisions regarding:
(1) The nature, scope, and attributes of the business of the reporting company, including the sale, lease, mortgage, or other transfer of any principal assets of the reporting company;
1
) The nature, scope, and attributes of the business of the reporting company, including the sale, lease, mortgage, or other transfer of any principal assets of the reporting company;
(2 The reorganization, dissolution, or merger of the reporting company;
2
The reorganization, dissolution, or merger of the reporting company;
(3) Major expenditures or investments, issuances of any equity, incurrence of any significant debt, or approval of the operating budget of the reporting company;
3
) Major expenditures or investments, issuances of any equity, incurrence of any significant debt, or approval of the operating budget of the reporting company;
(4) The selection or termination of business lines or ventures, or geographic focus, of the reporting company;
4
) The selection or termination of business lines or ventures, or geographic focus, of the reporting company;
(5) Compensation schemes and incentive programs for senior officers;
5
) Compensation schemes and incentive programs for senior officers;
(6) The entry into or termination, or the fulfillment or non-fulfillment, of significant contracts;
6
) The entry into or termination, or the fulfillment or non-fulfillment, of significant contracts;
(7) Amendments of any substantial governance documents of the reporting company, including the articles of incorporation or similar formation documents, bylaws, and significant policies or procedures; or
7
) Amendments of any substantial governance documents of the reporting company, including the articles of incorporation or similar formation documents, bylaws, and significant policies or procedures; or
(D) Has any other form of substantial control over the reporting company.
(ii) Direct or indirect exercise of substantial control. An individual may directly or indirectly, including as a trustee of a trust or similar arrangement, exercise substantial control over a reporting company through:
Direct or indirect exercise of substantial control.
An individual may directly or indirectly, including as a trustee of a trust or similar arrangement, exercise substantial control over a reporting company through:
(A) Board representation;
(B) Ownership or control of a majority of the voting power or voting rights of the reporting company;
(C) Rights associated with any financing arrangement or interest in a company;
(D) Control over one or more intermediary entities that separately or collectively exercise substantial control over a reporting company;
(E) Arrangements or financial or business relationships, whether formal or informal, with other individuals or entities acting as nominees; or
(F) any other contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or otherwise.
(2) Ownership Interests—(i) Definition of ownership interest. The term “ownership interest” means:
Ownership Interests
—(i)
Definition of ownership interest.
The term “ownership interest” means:
(A) Any equity, stock, or similar instrument; preorganization certificate or subscription; or transferable share of, or voting trust certificate or certificate of deposit for, an equity security, interest in a joint venture, or certificate of interest in a business trust; in each such case, without regard to whether any such instrument is transferable, is classified as stock or anything similar, or confers voting power or voting rights;
(B) Any capital or profit interest in an entity;
(C) Any instrument convertible, with or without consideration, into any share or instrument described in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A), or (B) of this section, any future on any such instrument, or any warrant or right to purchase, sell, or subscribe to a share or interest described in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A), or (B) of this section, regardless of whether characterized as debt;
(D) Any put, call, straddle, or other option or privilege of buying or selling any of the items described in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section without being bound to do so, except to the extent that such option or privilege is created and held by a third party or third parties without the knowledge or involvement of the reporting company; or
(E) Any other instrument, contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or mechanism used to establish ownership.
(ii) Ownership or control of ownership interest. An individual may directly or indirectly own or control an ownership interest of a reporting company through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or otherwise, including:
Ownership or control of ownership interest.
An individual may directly or indirectly own or control an ownership interest of a reporting company through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or otherwise, including:
(A) Joint ownership with one or more other persons of an undivided interest in such ownership interest;
(B) Through another individual acting as a nominee, intermediary, custodian, or agent on behalf of such individual;
(C) With regard to a trust or similar arrangement that holds such ownership interest:
(1) As a trustee of the trust or other individual (if any) with the authority to dispose of trust assets;
1
) As a trustee of the trust or other individual (if any) with the authority to dispose of trust assets;
(2) As a beneficiary who:
2
) As a beneficiary who:
(i) Is the sole permissible recipient of income and principal from the trust; or
i
) Is the sole permissible recipient of income and principal from the trust; or
(ii) Has the right to demand a distribution of or withdraw substantially all of the assets from the trust; or
ii
) Has the right to demand a distribution of or withdraw substantially all of the assets from the trust; or
(3) As a grantor or settlor who has the right to revoke the trust or otherwise withdraw the assets of the trust; or
3
) As a grantor or settlor who has the right to revoke the trust or otherwise withdraw the assets of the trust; or
(D) Through ownership or control of one or more intermediary entities, or ownership or control of the ownership interests of any such entities, that separately or collectively own or control ownership interests of the reporting company.
(iii) Calculation of the total ownership interests of a reporting company. In determining whether an individual owns or controls at least 25 percent of the ownership interests of a reporting company, the total ownership interests that an individual owns or controls, directly or indirectly, shall be calculated as a percentage of the total outstanding ownership interests of the reporting company as follows:
Calculation of the total ownership interests of a reporting company.
In determining whether an individual owns or controls at least 25 percent of the ownership interests of a reporting company, the total ownership interests that an individual owns or controls, directly or indirectly, shall be calculated as a percentage of the total outstanding ownership interests of the reporting company as follows:
(A) Ownership interests of the individual shall be calculated at the present time, and any options or similar interests of the individual shall be treated as exercised;
(B) For reporting companies that issue capital or profit interests (including entities treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes), the individual's ownership interests are the individual's capital and profit interests in the entity, calculated as a percentage of the total outstanding capital and profit interests of the entity;
(C) For corporations, entities treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes, and other reporting companies that issue shares of stock, the applicable percentage shall be the greater of:
(1) the total combined voting power of all classes of ownership interests of the individual as a percentage of total outstanding voting power of all classes of ownership interests entitled to vote, or
1
) the total combined voting power of all classes of ownership interests of the individual as a percentage of total outstanding voting power of all classes of ownership interests entitled to vote, or
(2) the total combined value of the ownership interests of the individual as a percentage of the total outstanding value of all classes of ownership interests; and
2
) the total combined value of the ownership interests of the individual as a percentage of the total outstanding value of all classes of ownership interests; and
(D) If the facts and circumstances do not permit the calculations described in either paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) or (C) to be performed with reasonable certainty, any individual who owns or controls 25 percent or more of any class or type of ownership interest of a reporting company shall be deemed to own or control 25 percent or more of the ownership interests of the reporting company.
(3) Exceptions. Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (d), the term “beneficial owner” does not include:
Exceptions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (d), the term “beneficial owner” does not include:
(i) A minor child, as defined under the law of the State or Indian tribe in which a reporting company is first registered, provided the reporting company reports the required information of a parent or legal guardian of the minor child as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii) An individual acting as a nominee, intermediary, custodian, or agent on behalf of another individual;
(iii) An employee of a reporting company, acting solely as an employee, whose substantial control over or economic benefits from such entity are derived solely from the employment status of the employee, provided that such person is not a senior officer as defined in paragraph (f)(8) of this section;
(iv) An individual whose only interest in a reporting company is a future interest through a right of inheritance;
(v) A creditor of a reporting company. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(v), a creditor is an individual who meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section solely through rights or interests for the payment of a predetermined sum of money, such as a debt incurred by the reporting company, or a loan covenant or other similar right associated with such right to receive payment that is intended to secure the right to receive payment or enhance the likelihood of repayment.
(4) Exemptions. (i) Reporting companies are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5336 and this section to report the beneficial ownership information of any United States persons who are beneficial owners.
Exemptions.
(i) Reporting companies are exempt from the requirement in 31 U.S.C. 5336 and this section to report the beneficial ownership information of any United States persons who are beneficial owners.
(ii) United States persons are exempt from the requirements in 31 U.S.C. 5336 and this section to provide beneficial ownership information with respect to any reporting company for which they are a beneficial owner.
(e) Company applicant. For purposes of this section, the term “company applicant” means:
Company applicant.
For purposes of this section, the term “company applicant” means:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) The individual who directly files the document that first registers the reporting company as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(3) The individual who is primarily responsible for directing or controlling such filing if more than one individual is involved in the filing of the document.
(f) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
(1) Employee. The term “employee” has the meaning given the term in 26 CFR 54.4980H-1(a)(15).
Employee.
The term “employee” has the meaning given the term in 26 CFR 54.4980H-1(a)(15).
(2) FinCEN identifier. The term “FinCEN identifier” means the unique identifying number assigned by FinCEN to an individual or reporting company under this section.
FinCEN identifier.
The term “FinCEN identifier” means the unique identifying number assigned by FinCEN to an individual or reporting company under this section.
(3) Foreign person. The term “foreign person” means a person who is not a United States person.
Foreign person.
The term “foreign person” means a person who is not a United States person.
(4) Indian tribe. The term “Indian tribe” has the meaning given the term “Indian tribe” in section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5130).
Indian tribe.
The term “Indian tribe” has the meaning given the term “Indian tribe” in section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5130).
(5) Lawfully admitted for permanent residence. The term “lawfully admitted for permanent residence” has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).
Lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
The term “lawfully admitted for permanent residence” has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).
(6) Operating presence at a physical office within the United States. The term “has an operating presence at a physical office within the United States” means that an entity regularly conducts its business at a physical location in the United States that the entity owns or leases and that is physically distinct from the place of business of any other unaffiliated entity.
Operating presence at a physical office within the United States.
The term “has an operating presence at a physical office within the United States” means that an entity regularly conducts its business at a physical location in the United States that the entity owns or leases and that is physically distinct from the place of business of any other unaffiliated entity.
(7) Pooled investment vehicle. The term “pooled investment vehicle” means:
Pooled investment vehicle.
The term “pooled investment vehicle” means:
(i) Any investment company, as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)); or
(ii) Any company that:
(A) Would be an investment company under that section but for the exclusion provided from that definition by paragraph (1) or (7) of section 3(c) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)); and
(B) Is identified by its legal name by the applicable investment adviser in its Form ADV (or successor form) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or will be so identified in the next annual updating amendment to Form ADV required to be filed by the applicable investment adviser pursuant to rule 204-1 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (17 CFR 275.204-1).
(8) Senior officer. The term “senior officer” means any individual holding the position or exercising the authority of a president, chief financial officer, general counsel, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, or any other officer, regardless of official title, who performs a similar function.
Senior officer.
The term “senior officer” means any individual holding the position or exercising the authority of a president, chief financial officer, general counsel, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, or any other officer, regardless of official title, who performs a similar function.
(9) State. The term “State” means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
State.
The term “State” means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
(10) United States person. The term “United States person” has the meaning given the term in section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
United States person.
The term “United States person” has the meaning given the term in section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(g) Reporting violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully provide, or attempt to provide, false or fraudulent beneficial ownership information, including a false or fraudulent identifying photograph or document, to FinCEN in accordance with this section, or to willfully fail to report complete or updated beneficial ownership information to FinCEN in accordance with this section. For purposes of this paragraph (g):
Reporting violations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully provide, or attempt to provide, false or fraudulent beneficial ownership information, including a false or fraudulent identifying photograph or document, to FinCEN in accordance with this section, or to willfully fail to report complete or updated beneficial ownership information to FinCEN in accordance with this section. For purposes of this paragraph (g):
(1) The term “person” includes any individual, reporting company, or other entity.
(2) The term “beneficial ownership information” includes any information provided to FinCEN under this section.
(3) A person provides or attempts to provide beneficial ownership information to FinCEN if such person does so directly or indirectly, including by providing such information to another person for purposes of a report or application under this section.
(4) A person fails to report complete or updated beneficial ownership information to FinCEN if, with respect to an entity:
(i) such entity is required, pursuant to title 31, United States Code, section 5336, or its implementing regulations, to report information to FinCEN;
(ii) the reporting company fails to report such information to FinCEN; and
(iii) such person either causes the failure, or is a senior officer of the entity at the time of the failure.
[[87 FR 59591, Sept. 30, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 76997, Nov. 8, 2023; 88 FR 83504, Nov. 30, 2023; 89 FR 83783, Oct. 18, 2024; 90 FR 13697, Mar. 26, 2025]]

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained


§ 1010.400   General.

Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its chapter X part for any additional recordkeeping requirements. Unless otherwise indicated, the recordkeeping requirements contained in this subpart D apply to all financial institutions.

§ 1010.401   Determination by the Secretary.

The Secretary hereby determines that the records required to be kept by this chapter have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory investigations or proceedings.

§ 1010.405   [Reserved]


§ 1010.410   Records to be made and retained by financial institutions.

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024.
Each financial institution shall retain either the original or a copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(a) A record of each extension of credit in an amount in excess of $10,000, except an extension of credit secured by an interest in real property, which record shall contain the name and address of the person to whom the extension of credit is made, the amount thereof, the nature or purpose thereof, and the date thereof;
(b) A record of each advice, request, or instruction received or given regarding any transaction resulting (or intended to result and later canceled if such a record is normally made) in the transfer of currency or other monetary instruments, funds, checks, investment securities, or credit, of more than $10,000 to or from any person, account, or place outside the United States.
(c) A record of each advice, request, or instruction given to another financial institution or other person located within or without the United States, regarding a transaction intended to result in the transfer of funds, or of currency, other monetary instruments, checks, investment securities, or credit, of more than $10,000 to a person, account or place outside the United States.
(d) A record of such information for such period of time as the Secretary may require in an order issued under § 1010.370(a), not to exceed five years.
(e) Nonbank financial institutions. Each agent, agency, branch, or office located within the United States of a financial institution other than a bank is subject to the requirements of this paragraph (e) with respect to a transmittal of funds in the amount of $3,000 or more:
Nonbank financial institutions.
Each agent, agency, branch, or office located within the United States of a financial institution other than a bank is subject to the requirements of this paragraph (e) with respect to a transmittal of funds in the amount of $3,000 or more:
(1) Recordkeeping requirements. (i) For each transmittal order that it accepts as a transmittor's financial institution, a financial institution shall obtain and retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the following information relating to the transmittal order:
Recordkeeping requirements.
(i) For each transmittal order that it accepts as a transmittor's financial institution, a financial institution shall obtain and retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the following information relating to the transmittal order:
(A) The name and address of the transmittor;
(B) The amount of the transmittal order;
(C) The execution date of the transmittal order;
(D) Any payment instructions received from the transmittor with the transmittal order;
(E) The identity of the recipient's financial institution;
(F) As many of the following items as are received with the transmittal order: 
1
1
1 For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a domestic broker or dealers in securities, only one of the items is required to be retained, if received with the transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
1
For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a domestic broker or dealers in securities, only one of the items is required to be retained, if received with the transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(1) The name and address of the recipient;
1
) The name and address of the recipient;
(2) The account number of the recipient; and
2
) The account number of the recipient; and
(3) Any other specific identifier of the recipient; and
3
) Any other specific identifier of the recipient; and
(G) Any form relating to the transmittal of funds that is completed or signed by the person placing the transmittal order.
(ii) For each transmittal order that it accepts as an intermediary financial institution, a financial institution shall retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the transmittal order.
(iii) For each transmittal order that it accepts as a recipient's financial institution, a financial institution shall retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the transmittal order.
(2) Transmittors other than established customers. In the case of a transmittal order from a transmittor that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section:
Transmittors other than established customers.
In the case of a transmittal order from a transmittor that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section:
(i) If the transmittal order is made in person, prior to acceptance the transmittor's financial institution shall verify the identity of the person placing the transmittal order. If it accepts the transmittal order, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address, the type of identification reviewed, and the number of the identification document (e.g., driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the transmittor's financial institution has knowledge that the person placing the transmittal order is not the transmittor, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the transmittor's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
e.g.,
driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the transmittor's financial institution has knowledge that the person placing the transmittal order is not the transmittor, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the transmittor's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(ii) If the transmittal order accepted by the transmittor's financial institution is not made in person, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address of the person placing the transmittal order, as well as the person's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof, and a copy or record of the method of payment (e.g., check or credit card transaction) for the transmittal of funds. If the transmittor's financial institution has knowledge that the person placing the transmittal order is not the transmittor, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the transmittor's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof, and a copy or record of the method of payment (
e.g.,
check or credit card transaction) for the transmittal of funds. If the transmittor's financial institution has knowledge that the person placing the transmittal order is not the transmittor, the transmittor's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the transmittor's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(3) Recipients other than established customers. For each transmittal order that it accepts as a recipient's financial institution for a recipient that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section:
Recipients other than established customers.
For each transmittal order that it accepts as a recipient's financial institution for a recipient that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section:
(i) If the proceeds are delivered in person to the recipient or its representative or agent, the recipient's financial institution shall verify the identity of the person receiving the proceeds and shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address, the type of identification reviewed, and the number of the identification document (e.g., driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the recipient's financial institution has knowledge that the person receiving the proceeds is not the recipient, the recipient's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the recipient's name and address, as well as the recipient's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person receiving the proceeds, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
e.g.,
driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the recipient's financial institution has knowledge that the person receiving the proceeds is not the recipient, the recipient's financial institution shall obtain and retain a record of the recipient's name and address, as well as the recipient's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person receiving the proceeds, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(ii) If the proceeds are delivered other than in person, the recipient's financial institution shall retain a copy of the check or other instrument used to effect payment, or the information contained thereon, as well as the name and address of the person to which it was sent.
(4) Retrievability. The information that a transmittor's financial institution must retain under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(2) of this section shall be retrievable by the transmittor's financial institution by reference to the name of the transmittor. If the transmittor is an established customer of the transmittor's financial institution and has an account used for transmittals of funds, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. The information that a recipient's financial institution must retain under paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) and (e)(3) of this section shall be retrievable by the recipient's financial institution by reference to the name of the recipient. If the recipient is an established customer of the recipient's financial institution and has an account used for transmittals of funds, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. This information need not be retained in any particular manner, so long as the financial institution is able to retrieve the information required by this paragraph, either by accessing transmittal of funds records directly or through reference to some other record maintained by the financial institution.
Retrievability.
The information that a transmittor's financial institution must retain under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(2) of this section shall be retrievable by the transmittor's financial institution by reference to the name of the transmittor. If the transmittor is an established customer of the transmittor's financial institution and has an account used for transmittals of funds, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. The information that a recipient's financial institution must retain under paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) and (e)(3) of this section shall be retrievable by the recipient's financial institution by reference to the name of the recipient. If the recipient is an established customer of the recipient's financial institution and has an account used for transmittals of funds, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. This information need not be retained in any particular manner, so long as the financial institution is able to retrieve the information required by this paragraph, either by accessing transmittal of funds records directly or through reference to some other record maintained by the financial institution.
(5) Verification. Where verification is required under paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section, a financial institution shall verify a person's identity by examination of a document (other than a customer signature card), preferably one that contains the person's name, address, and photograph, that is normally acceptable by financial institutions as a means of identification when cashing checks for persons other than established customers. Verification of the identity of an individual who indicates that he or she is an alien or is not a resident of the United States may be made by passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence (e.g., a foreign driver's license with indication of home address).
Verification.
Where verification is required under paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section, a financial institution shall verify a person's identity by examination of a document (other than a customer signature card), preferably one that contains the person's name, address, and photograph, that is normally acceptable by financial institutions as a means of identification when cashing checks for persons other than established customers. Verification of the identity of an individual who indicates that he or she is an alien or is not a resident of the United States may be made by passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence (
e.g.,
a foreign driver's license with indication of home address).
(6) Exceptions. The following transmittals of funds are not subject to the requirements of this section:
Exceptions.
The following transmittals of funds are not subject to the requirements of this section:
(i) Transmittals of funds where the transmittor and the recipient are any of the following:
(A) A bank;
(B) A wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of a bank chartered in the United States;
(C) A broker or dealer in securities;
(D) A wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of a broker or dealer in securities;
(E) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker in commodities;
(F) A wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker in commodities;
(G) The United States;
(H) A state or local government; or
(I) A Federal, State or local government agency or instrumentality; or
(J) A mutual fund; and
(ii) Transmittals of funds where both the transmittor and the recipient are the same person and the transmittor's financial institution and the recipient's financial institution are the same broker or dealer in securities.
(f) Any transmittor's financial institution or intermediary financial institution located within the United States shall include in any transmittal order for a transmittal of funds in the amount of $3,000 or more, information as required in this paragraph (f):
(1) A transmittor's financial institution shall include in a transmittal order, at the time it is sent to a receiving financial institution, the following information:
(i) The name and, if the payment is ordered from an account, the account number of the transmittor;
(ii) The address of the transmittor, except for a transmittal order through Fedwire until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire format;
(iii) The amount of the transmittal order;
(iv) The execution date of the transmittal order;
(v) The identity of the recipient's financial institution;
(vi) As many of the following items as are received with the transmittal order: 
2
2
2 For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a financial institution, only one of the items is required to be included in the transmittal order, if received with the sender's transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
2
For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a financial institution, only one of the items is required to be included in the transmittal order, if received with the sender's transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(A) The name and address of the recipient;
(B) The account number of the recipient;
(C) Any other specific identifier of the recipient; and
(vii) Either the name and address or numerical identifier of the transmittor's financial institution.
(2) A receiving financial institution that acts as an intermediary financial institution, if it accepts a transmittal order, shall include in a corresponding transmittal order at the time it is sent to the next receiving financial institution, the following information, if received from the sender:
(i) The name and the account number of the transmittor;
(ii) The address of the transmittor, except for a transmittal order through Fedwire until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire format;
(iii) The amount of the transmittal order;
(iv) The execution date of the transmittal order;
(v) The identity of the recipient's financial institution;
(vi) As many of the following items as are received with the transmittal order: 
3
3
3 For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a financial institution, only one of the items is required to be included in the transmittal order, if received with the sender's transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
3
For transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system by a financial institution, only one of the items is required to be included in the transmittal order, if received with the sender's transmittal order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(A) The name and address of the recipient;
(B) The account number of the recipient;
(C) Any other specific identifier of the recipient; and
(vii) Either the name and address or numerical identifier of the transmittor's financial institution.
(3) Safe harbor for transmittals of funds prior to conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format. The following provisions apply to transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system or otherwise by a financial institution before the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
Safe harbor for transmittals of funds prior to conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
The following provisions apply to transmittals of funds effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system or otherwise by a financial institution before the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(i) Transmittor's financial institution. A transmittor's financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section if it:
Transmittor's financial institution.
A transmittor's financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section if it:
(A) Includes in the transmittal order, at the time it is sent to the receiving financial institution, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(iii) through (v), and the information specified in paragraph (f)(1)(vi) of this section to the extent that such information has been received by the financial institution, and
(B) Provides the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i), (ii) and (vii) of this section to a financial institution that acted as an intermediary financial institution or recipient's financial institution in connection with the transmittal order, within a reasonable time after any such financial institution makes a request therefor in connection with the requesting financial institution's receipt of a lawful request for such information from a Federal, State, or local law enforcement or financial regulatory agency, or in connection with the requesting financial institution's own Bank Secrecy Act compliance program.
(ii) Intermediary financial institution. An intermediary financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(2) of this section if it:
Intermediary financial institution.
An intermediary financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(2) of this section if it:
(A) Includes in the transmittal order, at the time it is sent to the receiving financial institution, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(iii) through (f)(2)(vi) of this section, to the extent that such information has been received by the intermediary financial institution; and
(B) Provides the information specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i), (ii) and (vii) of this section, to the extent that such information has been received by the intermediary financial institution, to a financial institution that acted as an intermediary financial institution or recipient's financial institution in connection with the transmittal order, within a reasonable time after any such financial institution makes a request therefor in connection with the requesting financial institution's receipt of a lawful request for such information from a Federal, State, or local law enforcement or regulatory agency, or in connection with the requesting financial institution's own Bank Secrecy Act compliance program.
(iii) Obligation of requesting financial institution. Any information requested under paragraph (f)(3)(i)(B) or (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall be treated by the requesting institution, once received, as if it had been included in the transmittal order to which such information relates.
Obligation of requesting financial institution.
Any information requested under paragraph (f)(3)(i)(B) or (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall be treated by the requesting institution, once received, as if it had been included in the transmittal order to which such information relates.
(4) Exceptions. The requirements of this paragraph (f) shall not apply to transmittals of funds that are listed in paragraph (e)(6) of this section or § 1020.410(a)(6) of this chapter.
Exceptions.
The requirements of this paragraph (f) shall not apply to transmittals of funds that are listed in paragraph (e)(6) of this section or § 1020.410(a)(6) of this chapter.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]]

§ 1010.415   Purchases of bank checks and drafts, cashier's checks, money orders and traveler's checks.

(a) No financial institution may issue or sell a bank check or draft, cashier's check, money order or traveler's check for $3,000 or more in currency unless it maintains records of the following information, which must be obtained for each issuance or sale of one or more of these instruments to any individual purchaser which involves currency in amounts of $3,000-$10,000 inclusive:
(1) If the purchaser has a deposit account with the financial institution:
(i)(A) The name of the purchaser;
(B) The date of purchase;
(C) The type(s) of instrument(s) purchased;
(D) The serial number(s) of each of the instrument(s) purchased; and
(E) The amount in dollars of each of the instrument(s) purchased.
(ii) In addition, the financial institution must verify that the individual is a deposit accountholder or must verify the individual's identity. Verification may be either through a signature card or other file or record at the financial institution provided the deposit accountholder's name and address were verified previously and that information was recorded on the signature card or other file or record; or by examination of a document which is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors and which contains the name and address of the purchaser. If the deposit accountholder's identity has not been verified previously, the financial institution shall verify the deposit accountholder's identity by examination of a document which is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors and which contains the name and address of the purchaser, and shall record the specific identifying information (e.g., State of issuance and number of driver's license).
e.g.,
State of issuance and number of driver's license).
(2) If the purchaser does not have a deposit account with the financial institution:
(i)(A) The name and address of the purchaser;
(B) The social security number of the purchaser, or if the purchaser is an alien and does not have a social security number, the alien identification number;
(C) The date of birth of the purchaser;
(D) The date of purchase;
(E) The type(s) of instrument(s) purchased;
(F) The serial number(s) of the instrument(s) purchased; and
(G) The amount in dollars of each of the instrument(s) purchased.
(ii) In addition, the financial institution shall verify the purchaser's name and address by examination of a document which is normally acceptable within the banking community as a means of identification when cashing checks for nondepositors and which contains the name and address of the purchaser, and shall record the specific identifying information (e.g., State of issuance and number of driver's license).
e.g.,
State of issuance and number of driver's license).
(b) Contemporaneous purchases of the same or different types of instruments totaling $3,000 or more shall be treated as one purchase. Multiple purchases during one business day totaling $3,000 or more shall be treated as one purchase if an individual employee, director, officer, or partner of the financial institution has knowledge that these purchases have occurred.
(c) Records required to be kept shall be retained by the financial institution for a period of five years and shall be made available to the Secretary upon request at any time.

§ 1010.420   Records to be made and retained by persons having financial interests in foreign financial accounts.

Records of accounts required by § 1010.350 to be reported to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall be retained by each person having a financial interest in or signature or other authority over any such account. Such records shall contain the name in which each such account is maintained, the number or other designation of such account, the name and address of the foreign bank or other person with whom such account is maintained, the type of such account, and the maximum value of each such account during the reporting period. Such records shall be retained for a period of 5 years and shall be kept at all times available for inspection as authorized by law. In the computation of the period of 5 years, there shall be disregarded any period beginning with a date on which the taxpayer is indicted or information instituted on account of the filing of a false or fraudulent Federal income tax return or failing to file a Federal income tax return, and ending with the date on which final disposition is made of the criminal proceeding.

§ 1010.430   Nature of records and retention period.

(a) Wherever it is required that there be retained either the original or a copy or reproduction of a check, draft, monetary instrument, investment security, or other similar instrument, there shall be retained a copy of both front and back of each such instrument or document, except that no copy need be retained of the back of any instrument or document which is entirely blank or which contains only standardized printed information, a copy of which is on file.
(b) Records required by this chapter to be retained by financial institutions may be those made in the ordinary course of business by a financial institution. If no record is made in the ordinary course of business of any transaction with respect to which records are required to be retained by this chapter, then such a record shall be prepared in writing by the financial institution.
(c) The rules and regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service under 26 U.S.C. 6109 determine what constitutes a taxpayer identification number and whose number shall be obtained in the case of an account maintained by one or more persons.
(d) All records that are required to be retained by this chapter shall be retained for a period of five years. Records or reports required to be kept pursuant to an order issued under § 1010.370 of this chapter shall be retained for the period of time specified in such order, not to exceed five years. All such records shall be filed or stored in such a way as to be accessible within a reasonable period of time, taking into consideration the nature of the record, and the amount of time expired since the record was made.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]]

§ 1010.440   Person outside the United States.

For the purposes of this chapter, a remittance or transfer of funds, or of currency, other monetary instruments, checks, investment securities, or credit to the domestic account of a person whose address is known by the person making the remittance or transfer, to be outside the United States, shall be deemed to be a remittance or transfer to a person outside the United States, except that, unless otherwise directed by the Secretary, this section shall not apply to a transaction on the books of a domestic financial institution involving the account of a customer of such institution whose address is within approximately 50 miles of the location of the institution, or who is known to be temporarily outside the United States.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1010.500   General.

Sections 1010.505 through 1010.540 of this subpart E were issued pursuant to the requirements of section 314 of the USA PATRIOT Act. Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its chapter X part for any additional special information sharing procedures.

§ 1010.505   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart E, the following definitions apply:
(a) Account means a formal banking or business relationship established to provide regular services, dealings, and other financial transactions, and includes, but is not limited to, a demand deposit, savings deposit, or other transaction or asset account and a credit account or other extension of credit.
Account
means a formal banking or business relationship established to provide regular services, dealings, and other financial transactions, and includes, but is not limited to, a demand deposit, savings deposit, or other transaction or asset account and a credit account or other extension of credit.
(b) Money laundering means an activity criminalized by 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957, or an activity that would be criminalized by 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957 if it occurred in the United States.
Money laundering
means an activity criminalized by 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957, or an activity that would be criminalized by 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957 if it occurred in the United States.
(c) Terrorist activity means an act of domestic terrorism or international terrorism as those terms are defined in 18 U.S.C. 2331.
Terrorist activity
means an act of domestic terrorism or international terrorism as those terms are defined in 18 U.S.C. 2331.
(d) Transaction. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the term “transaction” shall have the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100(bbb).
Transaction.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the term “transaction” shall have the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100(bbb).
(2) For purposes of § 1010.520, a transaction shall not mean any transaction conducted through an account.

§ 1010.520   Information sharing between government agencies and financial institutions.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Financial institution means any financial institution described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2).
Financial institution
means any financial institution described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2).
(2) Law enforcement agency means a Federal, State, local, or foreign law enforcement agency with criminal investigative authority, provided that in the case of a foreign law enforcement agency, such agency is from a jurisdiction that is a party to a treaty that provides, or in the determination of FinCEN is from a jurisdiction that otherwise allows, law enforcement agencies in the United States reciprocal access to information comparable to that obtained under this section.
Law enforcement agency
means a Federal, State, local, or foreign law enforcement agency with criminal investigative authority, provided that in the case of a foreign law enforcement agency, such agency is from a jurisdiction that is a party to a treaty that provides, or in the determination of FinCEN is from a jurisdiction that otherwise allows, law enforcement agencies in the United States reciprocal access to information comparable to that obtained under this section.
(b) Information requests based on credible evidence concerning terrorist activity or money laundering—(1) In general. A law enforcement agency investigating terrorist activity or money laundering may request that FinCEN solicit, on the investigating agency's behalf, certain information from a financial institution or a group of financial institutions. When submitting such a request to FinCEN, the law enforcement agency shall provide FinCEN with a written certification, in such form and manner as FinCEN may prescribe. At a minimum, such certification must: State that each individual, entity, or organization about which the law enforcement agency is seeking information is engaged in, or is reasonably suspected based on credible evidence of engaging in, terrorist activity or money laundering; include enough specific identifiers, such as date of birth, address, and social security number, that would permit a financial institution to differentiate between common or similar names; and identify one person at the agency who can be contacted with any questions relating to its request. Upon receiving the requisite certification from the requesting law enforcement agency, FinCEN may require any financial institution to search its records to determine whether the financial institution maintains or has maintained accounts for, or has engaged in transactions with, any specified individual, entity, or organization.
Information requests based on credible evidence concerning terrorist activity or money laundering
—(1)
In general.
A law enforcement agency investigating terrorist activity or money laundering may request that FinCEN solicit, on the investigating agency's behalf, certain information from a financial institution or a group of financial institutions. When submitting such a request to FinCEN, the law enforcement agency shall provide FinCEN with a written certification, in such form and manner as FinCEN may prescribe. At a minimum, such certification must: State that each individual, entity, or organization about which the law enforcement agency is seeking information is engaged in, or is reasonably suspected based on credible evidence of engaging in, terrorist activity or money laundering; include enough specific identifiers, such as date of birth, address, and social security number, that would permit a financial institution to differentiate between common or similar names; and identify one person at the agency who can be contacted with any questions relating to its request. Upon receiving the requisite certification from the requesting law enforcement agency, FinCEN may require any financial institution to search its records to determine whether the financial institution maintains or has maintained accounts for, or has engaged in transactions with, any specified individual, entity, or organization.
(2) Requests from FinCEN. FinCEN may solicit, on its own behalf and on behalf of appropriate components of the Department of the Treasury, whether a financial institution or a group of financial institutions maintains or has maintained accounts for, or has engaged in transactions with, any specified individual, entity, or organization. Before an information request under this section is made to a financial institution, FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component shall certify in writing in the same manner as a requesting law enforcement agency that each individual, entity or organization about which FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component is seeking information is engaged in, or is reasonably suspected based on credible evidence of engaging in, terrorist activity or money laundering. The certification also must include enough specific identifiers, such as date of birth, address, and social security number, that would permit a financial institution to differentiate between common or similar names, and identify one person at FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component who can be contacted with any questions relating to its request.
Requests from FinCEN.
FinCEN may solicit, on its own behalf and on behalf of appropriate components of the Department of the Treasury, whether a financial institution or a group of financial institutions maintains or has maintained accounts for, or has engaged in transactions with, any specified individual, entity, or organization. Before an information request under this section is made to a financial institution, FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component shall certify in writing in the same manner as a requesting law enforcement agency that each individual, entity or organization about which FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component is seeking information is engaged in, or is reasonably suspected based on credible evidence of engaging in, terrorist activity or money laundering. The certification also must include enough specific identifiers, such as date of birth, address, and social security number, that would permit a financial institution to differentiate between common or similar names, and identify one person at FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component who can be contacted with any questions relating to its request.
(3) Obligations of a financial institution receiving an information request—(i) Record search. Upon receiving an information request from FinCEN under this section, a financial institution shall expeditiously search its records to determine whether it maintains or has maintained any account for, or has engaged in any transaction with, each individual, entity, or organization named in FinCEN's request. A financial institution may contact the law enforcement agency, FinCEN or requesting Treasury component representative, or U.S. law enforcement attaché in the case of a request by a foreign law enforcement agency, which has been named in the information request provided to the institution by FinCEN with any questions relating to the scope or terms of the request. Except as otherwise provided in the information request, a financial institution shall only be required to search its records for:
Obligations of a financial institution receiving an information request
—(i)
Record search.
Upon receiving an information request from FinCEN under this section, a financial institution shall expeditiously search its records to determine whether it maintains or has maintained any account for, or has engaged in any transaction with, each individual, entity, or organization named in FinCEN's request. A financial institution may contact the law enforcement agency, FinCEN or requesting Treasury component representative, or U.S. law enforcement attaché in the case of a request by a foreign law enforcement agency, which has been named in the information request provided to the institution by FinCEN with any questions relating to the scope or terms of the request. Except as otherwise provided in the information request, a financial institution shall only be required to search its records for:
(A) Any current account maintained for a named suspect;
(B) Any account maintained for a named suspect during the preceding twelve months; and
(C) Any transaction, as defined by § 1010.505(d), conducted by or on behalf of a named suspect, or any transmittal of funds conducted in which a named suspect was either the transmittor or the recipient, during the preceding six months that is required under law or regulation to be recorded by the financial institution or is recorded and maintained electronically by the institution.
(ii) Report to FinCEN. If a financial institution identifies an account or transaction identified with any individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN, it shall report to FinCEN, in the manner and in the time frame specified in FinCEN's request, the following information:
Report to FinCEN.
If a financial institution identifies an account or transaction identified with any individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN, it shall report to FinCEN, in the manner and in the time frame specified in FinCEN's request, the following information:
(A) The name of such individual, entity, or organization;
(B) The number of each such account, or in the case of a transaction, the date and type of each such transaction; and
(C) Any Social Security number, taxpayer identification number, passport number, date of birth, address, or other similar identifying information provided by the individual, entity, or organization when each such account was opened or each such transaction was conducted.
(iii) Designation of contact person. Upon receiving an information request under this section, a financial institution shall designate one person to be the point of contact at the institution regarding the request and to receive similar requests for information from FinCEN in the future. When requested by FinCEN, a financial institution shall provide FinCEN with the name, title, mailing address, e-mail address, telephone number, and facsimile number of such person, in such manner as FinCEN may prescribe. A financial institution that has provided FinCEN with contact information must promptly notify FinCEN of any changes to such information.
Designation of contact person.
Upon receiving an information request under this section, a financial institution shall designate one person to be the point of contact at the institution regarding the request and to receive similar requests for information from FinCEN in the future. When requested by FinCEN, a financial institution shall provide FinCEN with the name, title, mailing address, e-mail address, telephone number, and facsimile number of such person, in such manner as FinCEN may prescribe. A financial institution that has provided FinCEN with contact information must promptly notify FinCEN of any changes to such information.
(iv) Use and security of information request. (A) A financial institution shall not use information provided by FinCEN pursuant to this section for any purpose other than:
Use and security of information request.
(A) A financial institution shall not use information provided by FinCEN pursuant to this section for any purpose other than:
(1) Reporting to FinCEN as provided in this section;
1
) Reporting to FinCEN as provided in this section;
(2) Determining whether to establish or maintain an account, or to engage in a transaction; or
2
) Determining whether to establish or maintain an account, or to engage in a transaction; or
(3) Assisting the financial institution in complying with any requirement of this chapter.
3
) Assisting the financial institution in complying with any requirement of this chapter.
(B)(1) A financial institution shall not disclose to any person, other than FinCEN or the requesting Treasury component, the law enforcement agency on whose behalf FinCEN is requesting information, or U.S. law enforcement attaché in the case of a request by a foreign law enforcement agency, which has been named in the information request, the fact that FinCEN has requested or has obtained information under this section, except to the extent necessary to comply with such an information request.
1
) A financial institution shall not disclose to any person, other than FinCEN or the requesting Treasury component, the law enforcement agency on whose behalf FinCEN is requesting information, or U.S. law enforcement attaché in the case of a request by a foreign law enforcement agency, which has been named in the information request, the fact that FinCEN has requested or has obtained information under this section, except to the extent necessary to comply with such an information request.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(B)(1) of this section, a financial institution authorized to share information under § 1010.540 may share information concerning an individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN in accordance with the requirements of such section. However, such sharing shall not disclose the fact that FinCEN has requested information concerning such individual, entity, or organization.
2
) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section, a financial institution authorized to share information under § 1010.540 may share information concerning an individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN in accordance with the requirements of such section. However, such sharing shall not disclose the fact that FinCEN has requested information concerning such individual, entity, or organization.
(C) Each financial institution shall maintain adequate procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of requests from FinCEN for information under this section. The requirements of this paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(C) shall be deemed satisfied to the extent that a financial institution applies to such information procedures that the institution has established to satisfy the requirements of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801), and applicable regulations issued thereunder, with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information.
(v) No other action required. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a financial institution to take any action, or to decline to take any action, with respect to an account established for, or a transaction engaged in with, an individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN, or to decline to establish an account for, or to engage in a transaction with, any such individual, entity, or organization. Except as otherwise provided in an information request under this section, such a request shall not require a financial institution to report on future account opening activity or transactions or to treat a suspect list received under this section as a government list for purposes of section 326 of Public Law 107-56.
No other action required.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a financial institution to take any action, or to decline to take any action, with respect to an account established for, or a transaction engaged in with, an individual, entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN, or to decline to establish an account for, or to engage in a transaction with, any such individual, entity, or organization. Except as otherwise provided in an information request under this section, such a request shall not require a financial institution to report on future account opening activity or transactions or to treat a suspect list received under this section as a government list for purposes of section 326 of Public Law 107-56.
(4) Relation to the Right to Financial Privacy Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The information that a financial institution is required to report pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section is information required to be reported in accordance with a Federal statute or rule promulgated thereunder, for purposes of subsection 3413(d) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. 3413(d)) and subsection 502(e)(8) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6802(e)(8)).
Relation to the Right to Financial Privacy Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
The information that a financial institution is required to report pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section is information required to be reported in accordance with a Federal statute or rule promulgated thereunder, for purposes of subsection 3413(d) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. 3413(d)) and subsection 502(e)(8) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6802(e)(8)).
(5) No effect on law enforcement or regulatory investigations. Nothing in this subpart affects the authority of a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency or officer, or FinCEN or another component of the Department of the Treasury, to obtain information directly from a financial institution.
No effect on law enforcement or regulatory investigations.
Nothing in this subpart affects the authority of a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency or officer, or FinCEN or another component of the Department of the Treasury, to obtain information directly from a financial institution.

§ 1010.530   [Reserved]


§ 1010.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Financial institution. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the term “financial institution” means any financial institution described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) that is required under this chapter to establish and maintain an anti-money laundering program, or is treated under this chapter as having satisfied the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1).
Financial institution.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the term “financial institution” means any financial institution described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) that is required under this chapter to establish and maintain an anti-money laundering program, or is treated under this chapter as having satisfied the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1).
(ii) For purposes of this section, a financial institution shall not mean any institution included within a class of financial institutions that FinCEN has designated as ineligible to share information under this section.
(2) Association of financial institutions means a group or organization the membership of which is comprised entirely of financial institutions as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
Association of financial institutions
means a group or organization the membership of which is comprised entirely of financial institutions as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions—(1) In general. Subject to paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section, a financial institution or an association of financial institutions may, under the protection of the safe harbor from liability described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, transmit, receive, or otherwise share information with any other financial institution or association of financial institutions regarding individuals, entities, organizations, and countries for purposes of identifying and, where appropriate, reporting activities that the financial institution or association suspects may involve possible terrorist activity or money laundering.
Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions
—(1)
In general.
Subject to paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section, a financial institution or an association of financial institutions may, under the protection of the safe harbor from liability described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, transmit, receive, or otherwise share information with any other financial institution or association of financial institutions regarding individuals, entities, organizations, and countries for purposes of identifying and, where appropriate, reporting activities that the financial institution or association suspects may involve possible terrorist activity or money laundering.
(2) Notice requirement. A financial institution or association of financial institutions that intends to share information as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall submit to FinCEN a notice described on FinCEN's Internet Web site, http://www.fincen.gov. Each notice provided pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) shall be effective for the one year period beginning on the date of the notice. In order to continue to engage in the sharing of information after the end of the one year period, a financial institution or association of financial institutions must submit a new notice. Completed notices may be submitted to FinCEN by accessing FinCEN's Internet Web site, http://www.fincen.gov., and entering the appropriate information as directed, or, if a financial institution does not have Internet access, by mail to: FinCEN, P.O. Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
Notice requirement.
A financial institution or association of financial institutions that intends to share information as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall submit to FinCEN a notice described on FinCEN's Internet Web site,
http://www.fincen.gov.
Each notice provided pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) shall be effective for the one year period beginning on the date of the notice. In order to continue to engage in the sharing of information after the end of the one year period, a financial institution or association of financial institutions must submit a new notice. Completed notices may be submitted to FinCEN by accessing FinCEN's Internet Web site,
http://www.fincen.gov.,
and entering the appropriate information as directed, or, if a financial institution does not have Internet access, by mail to: FinCEN, P.O. Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
(3) Verification requirement. Prior to sharing information as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a financial institution or an association of financial institutions must take reasonable steps to verify that the other financial institution or association of financial institutions with which it intends to share information has submitted to FinCEN the notice required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A financial institution or an association of financial institutions may satisfy this paragraph (b)(3) by confirming that the other financial institution or association of financial institutions appears on a list that FinCEN will periodically make available to financial institutions or associations of financial institutions that have filed a notice with it, or by confirming directly with the other financial institution or association of financial institutions that the requisite notice has been filed.
Verification requirement.
Prior to sharing information as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a financial institution or an association of financial institutions must take reasonable steps to verify that the other financial institution or association of financial institutions with which it intends to share information has submitted to FinCEN the notice required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A financial institution or an association of financial institutions may satisfy this paragraph (b)(3) by confirming that the other financial institution or association of financial institutions appears on a list that FinCEN will periodically make available to financial institutions or associations of financial institutions that have filed a notice with it, or by confirming directly with the other financial institution or association of financial institutions that the requisite notice has been filed.
(4) Use and security of information. (i) Information received by a financial institution or an association of financial institutions pursuant to this section shall not be used for any purpose other than:
Use and security of information.
(i) Information received by a financial institution or an association of financial institutions pursuant to this section shall not be used for any purpose other than:
(A) Identifying and, where appropriate, reporting on money laundering or terrorist activities;
(B) Determining whether to establish or maintain an account, or to engage in a transaction; or
(C) Assisting the financial institution in complying with any requirement of this chapter.
(ii) Each financial institution or association of financial institutions that engages in the sharing of information pursuant to this section shall maintain adequate procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of such information. The requirements of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii) shall be deemed satisfied to the extent that a financial institution applies to such information procedures that the institution has established to satisfy the requirements of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801), and applicable regulations issued thereunder, with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information.
(5) Safe harbor from certain liability—(i) In general. A financial institution or association of financial institutions that shares information pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be protected from liability for such sharing, or for any failure to provide notice of such sharing, to an individual, entity, or organization that is identified in such sharing, to the full extent provided in subsection 314(b) of Public Law 107-56.
Safe harbor from certain liability
—(i)
In general.
A financial institution or association of financial institutions that shares information pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be protected from liability for such sharing, or for any failure to provide notice of such sharing, to an individual, entity, or organization that is identified in such sharing, to the full extent provided in subsection 314(b) of Public Law 107-56.
(ii) Limitation. Paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section shall not apply to a financial institution or association of financial institutions to the extent such institution or association fails to comply with paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section.
Limitation.
Paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section shall not apply to a financial institution or association of financial institutions to the extent such institution or association fails to comply with paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section.
(c) Information sharing between financial institutions and the Federal Government. If, as a result of information shared pursuant to this section, a financial institution knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that an individual, entity, or organization is involved in, or may be involved in terrorist activity or money laundering, and such institution is subject to a suspicious activity reporting requirement under this chapter or other applicable regulations, the institution shall file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with those regulations. In situations involving violations requiring immediate attention, such as when a reportable violation involves terrorist activity or is ongoing, the financial institution shall immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority and financial institution supervisory authorities in addition to filing timely a Suspicious Activity Report. A financial institution that is not subject to a suspicious activity reporting requirement is not required to file a Suspicious Activity Report or otherwise to notify law enforcement of suspicious activity that is detected as a result of information shared pursuant to this section. Such a financial institution is encouraged, however, to voluntarily report such activity to FinCEN.
Information sharing between financial institutions and the Federal Government.
If, as a result of information shared pursuant to this section, a financial institution knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that an individual, entity, or organization is involved in, or may be involved in terrorist activity or money laundering, and such institution is subject to a suspicious activity reporting requirement under this chapter or other applicable regulations, the institution shall file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with those regulations. In situations involving violations requiring immediate attention, such as when a reportable violation involves terrorist activity or is ongoing, the financial institution shall immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority and financial institution supervisory authorities in addition to filing timely a Suspicious Activity Report. A financial institution that is not subject to a suspicious activity reporting requirement is not required to file a Suspicious Activity Report or otherwise to notify law enforcement of suspicious activity that is detected as a result of information shared pursuant to this section. Such a financial institution is encouraged, however, to voluntarily report such activity to FinCEN.
(d) No effect on financial institution reporting obligations. Nothing in this subpart affects the obligation of a financial institution to file a Suspicious Activity Report pursuant to this chapter or any other applicable regulations, or to otherwise contact directly a Federal agency concerning individuals or entities suspected of engaging in terrorist activity or money laundering.
No effect on financial institution reporting obligations.
Nothing in this subpart affects the obligation of a financial institution to file a Suspicious Activity Report pursuant to this chapter or any other applicable regulations, or to otherwise contact directly a Federal agency concerning individuals or entities suspected of engaging in terrorist activity or money laundering.

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures


§ 1010.600   General.

Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its Chapter X Part for any additional special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements.

Special Due Diligence for Correspondent Accounts and Private Banking Accounts


§ 1010.605   Definitions.

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72274, Sept. 4, 2024.
Except as otherwise provided, the following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 1010.610 through 1010.630 and § 1010.670:
(a) Beneficial owner of an account means an individual who has a level of control over, or entitlement to, the funds or assets in the account that, as a practical matter, enables the individual, directly or indirectly, to control, manage or direct the account. The ability to fund the account or the entitlement to the funds of the account alone, however, without any corresponding authority to control, manage or direct the account (such as in the case of a minor child beneficiary), does not cause the individual to be a beneficial owner.
Beneficial owner
of an account means an individual who has a level of control over, or entitlement to, the funds or assets in the account that, as a practical matter, enables the individual, directly or indirectly, to control, manage or direct the account. The ability to fund the account or the entitlement to the funds of the account alone, however, without any corresponding authority to control, manage or direct the account (such as in the case of a minor child beneficiary), does not cause the individual to be a beneficial owner.
(b) Certification and recertification mean the certification and recertification forms regarding correspondent accounts for foreign banks located on FinCEN's Internet Web site, http://www.fincen.gov.
Certification and recertification
mean the certification and recertification forms regarding correspondent accounts for foreign banks located on FinCEN's Internet Web site,
http://www.fincen.gov.
(c) Correspondent account. (1) The term correspondent account means:
Correspondent account.
(1) The term
correspondent account
means:
(i) For purposes of § 1010.610(a), (d) and (e), an account established for a foreign financial institution to receive deposits from, or to make payments or other disbursements on behalf of, the foreign financial institution, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign financial institution; and
(ii) For purposes of §§ 1010.610(b) and (c), 1010.630 and 1010.670, an account established for a foreign bank to receive deposits from, or to make payments or other disbursements on behalf of, the foreign bank, or to handle other financial transactions related to such foreign bank.
(2) For purposes of this definition, the term account:
account:
(i) As applied to banks (as set forth in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section):
(A) Means any formal banking or business relationship established by a bank to provide regular services, dealings, and other financial transactions; and
(B) Includes a demand deposit, savings deposit, or other transaction or asset account and a credit account or other extension of credit;
(ii) As applied to brokers or dealers in securities (as set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) means any formal relationship established with a broker or dealer in securities to provide regular services to effect transactions in securities, including, but not limited to, the purchase or sale of securities and securities loaned and borrowed activity, and to hold securities or other assets for safekeeping or as collateral;
(iii) As applied to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers (as set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(ix) of this section) means any formal relationship established by a futures commission merchant to provide regular services, including, but not limited to, those established to effect transactions in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, options on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or options on a commodity; and
(iv) As applied to mutual funds (as set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(x) of this section) means any contractual or other business relationship established between a person and a mutual fund to provide regular services to effect transactions in securities issued by the mutual fund, including the purchase or sale of securities.
(d) Correspondent relationship has the same meaning as correspondent account for purposes of §§ 1010.630 and 1010.670.
Correspondent relationship
has the same meaning as correspondent account for purposes of §§ 1010.630 and 1010.670.
(e) Covered financial institution means:
Covered financial institution
means:
(1) For purposes of § 1010.610 and 1010.620:
(i) A bank required to have an anti-money laundering compliance program under the regulations implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), 12 U.S.C. 1818(s), or 12 U.S.C. 1786(q)(1);
(ii) A broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(iii) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to be registered, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
(iv) A mutual fund;
(2) For purposes of §§ 1010.630 and 1010.670:
(i) An insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h)));
(ii) A commercial bank or trust company;
(iii) A private banker;
(iv) An agency or branch of a foreign bank in the United States;
(v) A credit union;
(vi) A savings association;
(vii) A corporation acting under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611 et seq.); and
et seq.
); and
(viii) A broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(f) Foreign financial institution. (1) The term foreign financial institution means:
Foreign financial institution.
(1) The term
foreign financial institution
means:
(i) A foreign bank;
(ii) Any branch or office located outside the United States of any covered financial institution described in paragraphs (e)(1)(viii) through (x) of this section;
(iii) Any other person organized under foreign law (other than a branch or office of such person in the United States) that, if it were located in the United States, would be a covered financial institution described in paragraphs (e)(1)(viii) through (x) of this section; and
(iv) Any person organized under foreign law (other than a branch or office of such person in the United States) that is engaged in the business of, and is readily identifiable as:
(A) A dealer in foreign exchange; or
(B) A money transmitter.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, a person is not “engaged in the business” of a dealer in foreign exchange or a money transmitter if such transactions are merely incidental to the person's business.
(g) Foreign shell bank means a foreign bank without a physical presence in any country.
Foreign shell bank
means a foreign bank without a physical presence in any country.
(h) Non-United States person or non-U.S. person means a natural person who is neither a United States citizen nor is accorded the privilege of residing permanently in the United States pursuant to title 8 of the United States Code. For purposes of this paragraph (h), the definition of person in § 1010.100(mm) does not apply, notwithstanding paragraph (k) of this section.
Non-United States person or non-U.S. person
means a natural person who is neither a United States citizen nor is accorded the privilege of residing permanently in the United States pursuant to title 8 of the United States Code. For purposes of this paragraph (h), the definition of
person
in § 1010.100(mm) does not apply, notwithstanding paragraph (k) of this section.
(i) Offshore banking license means a license to conduct banking activities that prohibits the licensed entity from conducting banking activities with the citizens of, or in the local currency of, the jurisdiction that issued the license.
Offshore banking license
means a license to conduct banking activities that prohibits the licensed entity from conducting banking activities with the citizens of, or in the local currency of, the jurisdiction that issued the license.
(j) Owner. (1) The term owner means any person who, directly or indirectly:
Owner.
(1) The term
owner
means any person who, directly or indirectly:
(i) Owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities or other voting interests of a foreign bank; or
(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors (or individuals exercising similar functions) of a foreign bank.
(2) For purposes of this definition:
(i) Members of the same family shall be considered to be one person.
(ii) The term same family means parents, spouses, children, siblings, uncles, aunts, grandparents, grandchildren, first cousins, stepchildren, stepsiblings, parents-in-law, and spouses of any of the foregoing.
same family
means parents, spouses, children, siblings, uncles, aunts, grandparents, grandchildren, first cousins, stepchildren, stepsiblings, parents-in-law, and spouses of any of the foregoing.
(iii) Each member of the same family who has an ownership interest in a foreign bank must be identified if the family is an owner as a result of aggregating the ownership interests of the members of the family. In determining the ownership interests of the same family, any voting interest of any family member shall be taken into account.
(iv) Voting securities or other voting interests means securities or other interests that entitle the holder to vote for or to select directors (or individuals exercising similar functions).
Voting securities or other voting interests
means securities or other interests that entitle the holder to vote for or to select directors (or individuals exercising similar functions).
(k) Person has the meaning provided in § 1010.100(mm).
Person
has the meaning provided in § 1010.100(mm).
(l) Physical presence means a place of business that:
Physical presence
means a place of business that:
(1) Is maintained by a foreign bank;
(2) Is located at a fixed address (other than solely an electronic address or a post-office box) in a country in which the foreign bank is authorized to conduct banking activities, at which location the foreign bank:
(i) Employs one or more individuals on a full-time basis; and
(ii) Maintains operating records related to its banking activities; and
(3) Is subject to inspection by the banking authority that licensed the foreign bank to conduct banking activities.
(m) Private banking account means an account (or any combination of accounts) maintained at a covered financial institution that:
Private banking account
means an account (or any combination of accounts) maintained at a covered financial institution that:
(1) Requires a minimum aggregate deposit of funds or other assets of not less than $1,000,000;
(2) Is established on behalf of or for the benefit of one or more non-U.S. persons who are direct or beneficial owners of the account; and
(3) Is assigned to, or is administered or managed by, in whole or in part, an officer, employee, or agent of a covered financial institution acting as a liaison between the covered financial institution and the direct or beneficial owner of the account.
(n) Regulated affiliate. (1) The term regulated affiliate means a foreign shell bank that:
Regulated affiliate.
(1) The term
regulated affiliate
means a foreign shell bank that:
(i) Is an affiliate of a depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank that maintains a physical presence in the United States or a foreign country, as applicable; and
(ii) Is subject to supervision by a banking authority in the country regulating such affiliated depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank.
(2) For purposes of this definition:
(i) Affiliate means a foreign bank that is controlled by, or is under common control with, a depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank.
Affiliate
means a foreign bank that is controlled by, or is under common control with, a depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank.
(ii) Control means:
Control
means:
(A) Ownership, control, or power to vote 50 percent or more of any class of voting securities or other voting interests of another company; or
(B) Control in any manner the election of a majority of the directors (or individuals exercising similar functions) of another company.
(o) Secretary means the Secretary of the Treasury.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
(p) Senior foreign political figure. (1) The term senior foreign political figure means:
Senior foreign political figure.
(1) The term
senior foreign political figure
means:
(i) A current or former:
(A) Senior official in the executive, legislative, administrative, military, or judicial branches of a foreign government (whether elected or not);
(B) Senior official of a major foreign political party; or
(C) Senior executive of a foreign government-owned commercial enterprise;
(ii) A corporation, business, or other entity that has been formed by, or for the benefit of, any such individual;
(iii) An immediate family member of any such individual; and
(iv) A person who is widely and publicly known (or is actually known by the relevant covered financial institution) to be a close associate of such individual.
(2) For purposes of this definition:
(i) Senior official or executive means an individual with substantial authority over policy, operations, or the use of government-owned resources; and
Senior official or executive
means an individual with substantial authority over policy, operations, or the use of government-owned resources; and
(ii) Immediate family member means spouses, parents, siblings, children and a spouse's parents and siblings.
Immediate family member
means spouses, parents, siblings, children and a spouse's parents and siblings.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43596, July 21, 2011; 85 FR 57137, Sept. 15, 2020]]

§ 1010.610   Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.

(a) In general. A covered financial institution shall establish a due diligence program that includes appropriate, specific, risk-based, and, where necessary, enhanced policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to enable the covered financial institution to detect and report, on an ongoing basis, any known or suspected money laundering activity conducted through or involving any correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed by such covered financial institution in the United States for a foreign financial institution. The due diligence program required by this section shall be a part of the anti-money laundering program otherwise required by this chapter. Such policies, procedures, and controls shall include:
In general.
A covered financial institution shall establish a due diligence program that includes appropriate, specific, risk-based, and, where necessary, enhanced policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to enable the covered financial institution to detect and report, on an ongoing basis, any known or suspected money laundering activity conducted through or involving any correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed by such covered financial institution in the United States for a foreign financial institution. The due diligence program required by this section shall be a part of the anti-money laundering program otherwise required by this chapter. Such policies, procedures, and controls shall include:
(1) Determining whether any such correspondent account is subject to paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Assessing the money laundering risk presented by such correspondent account, based on a consideration of all relevant factors, which shall include, as appropriate:
(i) The nature of the foreign financial institution's business and the markets it serves;
(ii) The type, purpose, and anticipated activity of such correspondent account;
(iii) The nature and duration of the covered financial institution's relationship with the foreign financial institution (and any of its affiliates);
(iv) The anti-money laundering and supervisory regime of the jurisdiction that issued the charter or license to the foreign financial institution, and, to the extent that information regarding such jurisdiction is reasonably available, of the jurisdiction in which any company that is an owner of the foreign financial institution is incorporated or chartered; and
(v) Information known or reasonably available to the covered financial institution about the foreign financial institution's anti-money laundering record; and
(3) Applying risk-based procedures and controls to each such correspondent account reasonably designed to detect and report known or suspected money laundering activity, including a periodic review of the correspondent account activity sufficient to determine consistency with information obtained about the type, purpose, and anticipated activity of the account.
(b) Enhanced due diligence for certain foreign banks. In the case of a correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States for a foreign bank described in paragraph (c) of this section, the due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include enhanced due diligence procedures designed to ensure that the covered financial institution, at a minimum, takes reasonable steps to:
Enhanced due diligence for certain foreign banks.
In the case of a correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States for a foreign bank described in paragraph (c) of this section, the due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include enhanced due diligence procedures designed to ensure that the covered financial institution, at a minimum, takes reasonable steps to:
(1) Conduct enhanced scrutiny of such correspondent account to guard against money laundering and to identify and report any suspicious transactions in accordance with applicable law and regulation. This enhanced scrutiny shall reflect the risk assessment of the account and shall include, as appropriate:
(i) Obtaining and considering information relating to the foreign bank's anti-money laundering program to assess the risk of money laundering presented by the foreign bank's correspondent account;
(ii) Monitoring transactions to, from, or through the correspondent account in a manner reasonably designed to detect money laundering and suspicious activity; and
(iii)(A) Obtaining information from the foreign bank about the identity of any person with authority to direct transactions through any correspondent account that is a payable-through account, and the sources and beneficial owner of funds or other assets in the payable-through account.
(B) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, a payable-through account means a correspondent account maintained by a covered financial institution for a foreign bank by means of which the foreign bank permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
payable-through account
means a correspondent account maintained by a covered financial institution for a foreign bank by means of which the foreign bank permits its customers to engage, either directly or through a subaccount, in banking activities usual in connection with the business of banking in the United States.
(2) Determine whether the foreign bank for which the correspondent account is established or maintained in turn maintains correspondent accounts for other foreign banks that use the foreign correspondent account established or maintained by the covered financial institution and, if so, take reasonable steps to obtain information relevant to assess and mitigate money laundering risks associated with the foreign bank's correspondent accounts for other foreign banks, including, as appropriate, the identity of those foreign banks.
(3)(i) Determine, for any correspondent account established or maintained for a foreign bank whose shares are not publicly traded, the identity of each owner of the foreign bank and the nature and extent of each owner's ownership interest.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section:
(A) Owner means any person who directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has the power to vote 10 percent or more of any class of securities of a foreign bank. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A):
Owner
means any person who directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has the power to vote 10 percent or more of any class of securities of a foreign bank. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A):
(1) Members of the same family shall be considered to be one person; and
1
) Members of the same family shall be considered to be one person; and
(2) Same family has the meaning provided in § 1010.605(j)(2)(ii).
2
)
Same family
has the meaning provided in § 1010.605(j)(2)(ii).
(B) Publicly traded means shares that are traded on an exchange or an organized over-the-counter market that is regulated by a foreign securities authority as defined in section 3(a)(50) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(50)).
Publicly traded
means shares that are traded on an exchange or an organized over-the-counter market that is regulated by a foreign securities authority as defined in section 3(a)(50) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(50)).
(c) Foreign banks to be accorded enhanced due diligence. The due diligence procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section are required for any correspondent account maintained for a foreign bank that operates under:
Foreign banks to be accorded enhanced due diligence.
The due diligence procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section are required for any correspondent account maintained for a foreign bank that operates under:
(1) An offshore banking license;
(2) A banking license issued by a foreign country that has been designated as non-cooperative with international anti-money laundering principles or procedures by an intergovernmental group or organization of which the United States is a member and with which designation the U.S. representative to the group or organization concurs; or
(3) A banking license issued by a foreign country that has been designated by the Secretary as warranting special measures due to money laundering concerns.
(d) Special procedures when due diligence or enhanced due diligence cannot be performed. The due diligence program required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall include procedures to be followed in circumstances in which a covered financial institution cannot perform appropriate due diligence or enhanced due diligence with respect to a correspondent account, including when the covered financial institution should refuse to open the account, suspend transaction activity, file a suspicious activity report, or close the account.
Special procedures when due diligence or enhanced due diligence cannot be performed.
The due diligence program required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall include procedures to be followed in circumstances in which a covered financial institution cannot perform appropriate due diligence or enhanced due diligence with respect to a correspondent account, including when the covered financial institution should refuse to open the account, suspend transaction activity, file a suspicious activity report, or close the account.
(e) Applicability rules for general due diligence. The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
Applicability rules for general due diligence.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
(1) General rules—(i) Correspondent accounts established on or after July 5, 2006. Effective July 5, 2006, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established on or after that date.
General rules
—(i)
Correspondent accounts established on or after July 5, 2006.
Effective July 5, 2006, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established on or after that date.
(ii) Correspondent accounts established before July 5, 2006. Effective October 2, 2006, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established before July 5, 2006.
Correspondent accounts established before July 5, 2006.
Effective October 2, 2006, the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established before July 5, 2006.
(2) Special rules for certain banks. Until the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) shall continue to apply to any covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi).
Special rules for certain banks.
Until the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) shall continue to apply to any covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi).
(3) Special rules for all other covered financial institutions. The due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) through (x) until the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
Special rules for all other covered financial institutions.
The due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) through (x) until the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f) Applicability rules for enhanced due diligence. The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
Applicability rules for enhanced due diligence.
The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
(1) General rules—(i) Correspondent accounts established on or after February 5, 2008. Effective February 5, 2008, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established on or after such date.
General rules
—(i)
Correspondent accounts established on or after February 5, 2008.
Effective February 5, 2008, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established on or after such date.
(ii) Correspondent accounts established before February 5, 2008. Effective May 5, 2008, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established before February 5, 2008.
Correspondent accounts established before February 5, 2008.
Effective May 5, 2008, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply to each correspondent account established before February 5, 2008.
(2) Special rules for certain banks. Until the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the enhanced due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(2) shall continue to apply to any covered financial institutions listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi).
Special rules for certain banks.
Until the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the enhanced due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(2) shall continue to apply to any covered financial institutions listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi).
(3) Special rules for all other covered financial institutions. The enhanced due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(2) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) through (x) until the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section become applicable, as set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
Special rules for all other covered financial institutions.
The enhanced due diligence requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(2) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) through (x) until the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section become applicable, as set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g) Exemptions—(1) Exempt financial institutions. Except as provided in this section, a financial institution defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1), or § 1010.100(t) is exempt from the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) and (i)(2) pertaining to correspondent accounts.
Exemptions
—(1)
Exempt financial institutions.
Except as provided in this section, a financial institution defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1), or § 1010.100(t) is exempt from the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(1) and (i)(2) pertaining to correspondent accounts.
(2) Other compliance obligations of financial institutions unaffected. Nothing in paragraph (g) of this section shall be construed to relieve a financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31, United States Code, and this chapter.
Other compliance obligations of financial institutions unaffected.
Nothing in paragraph (g) of this section shall be construed to relieve a financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31, United States Code, and this chapter.

§ 1010.620   Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.

(a) In general. A covered financial institution shall maintain a due diligence program that includes policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to detect and report any known or suspected money laundering or suspicious activity conducted through or involving any private banking account that is established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States by such financial institution. The due diligence program required by this section shall be a part of the anti-money laundering program otherwise required by this chapter.
In general.
A covered financial institution shall maintain a due diligence program that includes policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to detect and report any known or suspected money laundering or suspicious activity conducted through or involving any private banking account that is established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States by such financial institution. The due diligence program required by this section shall be a part of the anti-money laundering program otherwise required by this chapter.
(b) Minimum requirements. The due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be designed to ensure, at a minimum, that the financial institution takes reasonable steps to:
Minimum requirements.
The due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be designed to ensure, at a minimum, that the financial institution takes reasonable steps to:
(1) Ascertain the identity of all nominal and beneficial owners of a private banking account;
(2) Ascertain whether any person identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is a senior foreign political figure;
(3) Ascertain the source(s) of funds deposited into a private banking account and the purpose and expected use of the account; and
(4) Review the activity of the account to ensure that it is consistent with the information obtained about the client's source of funds, and with the stated purpose and expected use of the account, as needed to guard against money laundering, and to report, in accordance with applicable law and regulation, any known or suspected money laundering or suspicious activity conducted to, from, or through a private banking account.
(c) Special requirements for senior foreign political figures. (1) In the case of a private banking account for which a senior foreign political figure is a nominal or beneficial owner, the due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include enhanced scrutiny of such account that is reasonably designed to detect and report transactions that may involve the proceeds of foreign corruption.
Special requirements for senior foreign political figures.
(1) In the case of a private banking account for which a senior foreign political figure is a nominal or beneficial owner, the due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include enhanced scrutiny of such account that is reasonably designed to detect and report transactions that may involve the proceeds of foreign corruption.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term proceeds of foreign corruption means any asset or property that is acquired by, through, or on behalf of a senior foreign political figure through misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of public funds, the unlawful conversion of property of a foreign government, or through acts of bribery or extortion, and shall include any other property into which any such assets have been transformed or converted.
proceeds of foreign corruption
means any asset or property that is acquired by, through, or on behalf of a senior foreign political figure through misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of public funds, the unlawful conversion of property of a foreign government, or through acts of bribery or extortion, and shall include any other property into which any such assets have been transformed or converted.
(d) Special procedures when due diligence cannot be performed. The due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include procedures to be followed in circumstances in which a covered financial institution cannot perform appropriate due diligence with respect to a private banking account, including when the covered financial institution should refuse to open the account, suspend transaction activity, file a suspicious activity report, or close the account.
Special procedures when due diligence cannot be performed.
The due diligence program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include procedures to be followed in circumstances in which a covered financial institution cannot perform appropriate due diligence with respect to a private banking account, including when the covered financial institution should refuse to open the account, suspend transaction activity, file a suspicious activity report, or close the account.
(e) Applicability rules. The provisions of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
Applicability rules.
The provisions of this section apply to covered financial institutions as follows:
(1) General rules—(i) Private banking accounts established on or after July 5, 2006. Effective July 5, 2006, the requirements of this section shall apply to each private banking account established on or after such date.
General rules
—(i) Private banking accounts established on or after July 5, 2006. Effective July 5, 2006, the requirements of this section shall apply to each private banking account established on or after such date.
(ii) Private banking accounts established before July 5, 2006. Effective October 2, 2006, the requirements of this section shall apply to each private banking account established before July 5, 2006.
(2) Special rules for certain banks and for brokers or dealers in securities, futures commission merchants, and introducing brokers. Until the requirements of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) shall continue to apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi), (viii), or (ix).
Special rules for certain banks and for brokers or dealers in securities, futures commission merchants, and introducing brokers.
Until the requirements of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) shall continue to apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(i) through (vi), (viii), or (ix).
(3) Special rules for federally regulated trust banks or trust companies, and mutual funds. Until the requirements of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) or (x).
Special rules for federally regulated trust banks or trust companies, and mutual funds.
Until the requirements of this section become applicable as set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) shall not apply to a covered financial institution listed in § 1010.605(e)(1)(vii) or (x).
(4) Exemptions—(i) Exempt financial institutions. Except as provided in this section, a financial institution defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1) or § 1010.100(t) is exempt from the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) pertaining to private banking accounts.
Exemptions
—(i)
Exempt financial institutions.
Except as provided in this section, a financial institution defined in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) or (c)(1) or § 1010.100(t) is exempt from the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(i)(3) pertaining to private banking accounts.
(ii) Other compliance obligations of financial institutions unaffected. Nothing in paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be construed to relieve a financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31, United States Code, and this chapter.
Other compliance obligations of financial institutions unaffected.
Nothing in paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be construed to relieve a financial institution from its responsibility to comply with any other applicable requirement of law or regulation, including title 31, United States Code, and this chapter.

§ 1010.630   Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.

(a) Requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks. (i) A covered financial institution shall not establish, maintain, administer, or manage a correspondent account in the United States for, or on behalf of, a foreign shell bank.
Requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks.
(i) A covered financial institution shall not establish, maintain, administer, or manage a correspondent account in the United States for, or on behalf of, a foreign shell bank.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps to ensure that any correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed by that covered financial institution in the United States for a foreign bank is not being used by that foreign bank to indirectly provide banking services to a foreign shell bank.
(iii) Nothing in paragraph (a)(1) of this section prohibits a covered financial institution from providing a correspondent account or banking services to a regulated affiliate.
(2) Records of owners and agents. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a covered financial institution that maintains a correspondent account in the United States for a foreign bank shall maintain records in the United States identifying the owners of each such foreign bank whose shares are not publicly traded and the name and street address of a person who resides in the United States and is authorized, and has agreed to be an agent to accept service of legal process for records regarding each such account.
Records of owners and agents.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a covered financial institution that maintains a correspondent account in the United States for a foreign bank shall maintain records in the United States identifying the owners of each such foreign bank whose shares are not publicly traded and the name and street address of a person who resides in the United States and is authorized, and has agreed to be an agent to accept service of legal process for records regarding each such account.
(ii) A covered financial institution need not maintain records of the owners of any foreign bank that is required to have on file with the Federal Reserve Board a Form FR Y-7 that identifies the current owners of the foreign bank as required by such form.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, publicly traded refers to shares that are traded on an exchange or on an organized over-the-counter market that is regulated by a foreign securities authority as defined in section 3(a)(50) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(50)).
publicly traded
refers to shares that are traded on an exchange or on an organized over-the-counter market that is regulated by a foreign securities authority as defined in section 3(a)(50) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(50)).
(b) Safe harbor. Subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, a covered financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a foreign bank if the covered financial institution obtains, at least once every three years, a certification or recertification from the foreign bank.
Safe harbor.
Subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, a covered financial institution will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a foreign bank if the covered financial institution obtains, at least once every three years, a certification or recertification from the foreign bank.
(c) Interim verification. If at any time a covered financial institution knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect, that any information contained in a certification or recertification provided by a foreign bank, or otherwise relied upon by the covered financial institution for purposes of this section, is no longer correct, the covered financial institution shall request that the foreign bank verify or correct such information, or shall take other appropriate measures to ascertain the accuracy of the information or to obtain correct information, as appropriate. See paragraph (d)(3) of this section for additional requirements if a foreign bank fails to verify or correct the information or if a covered financial institution cannot ascertain the accuracy of the information or obtain correct information.
Interim verification.
If at any time a covered financial institution knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect, that any information contained in a certification or recertification provided by a foreign bank, or otherwise relied upon by the covered financial institution for purposes of this section, is no longer correct, the covered financial institution shall request that the foreign bank verify or correct such information, or shall take other appropriate measures to ascertain the accuracy of the information or to obtain correct information, as appropriate. See paragraph (d)(3) of this section for additional requirements if a foreign bank fails to verify or correct the information or if a covered financial institution cannot ascertain the accuracy of the information or obtain correct information.
(d) Closure of correspondent accounts—(1) Accounts existing on October 28, 2002. In the case of any correspondent account that was in existence on October 28, 2002, if the covered financial institution has not obtained a certification (or recertification) from the foreign bank, or has not otherwise obtained documentation of the information required by such certification (or recertification), on or before March 31, 2003, and at least once every three years thereafter, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
Closure of correspondent accounts
—(1)
Accounts existing on October 28, 2002.
In the case of any correspondent account that was in existence on October 28, 2002, if the covered financial institution has not obtained a certification (or recertification) from the foreign bank, or has not otherwise obtained documentation of the information required by such certification (or recertification), on or before March 31, 2003, and at least once every three years thereafter, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
(2) Accounts established after October 28, 2002. In the case of any correspondent account established after October 28, 2002, if the covered financial institution has not obtained a certification (or recertification), or has not otherwise obtained documentation of the information required by such certification (or recertification) within 30 calendar days after the date the account is established, and at least once every three years thereafter, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
Accounts established after October 28, 2002.
In the case of any correspondent account established after October 28, 2002, if the covered financial institution has not obtained a certification (or recertification), or has not otherwise obtained documentation of the information required by such certification (or recertification) within 30 calendar days after the date the account is established, and at least once every three years thereafter, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
(3) Verification of previously provided information. In the case of a foreign bank with respect to which the covered financial institution undertakes to verify information pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, if the covered financial institution has not obtained, from the foreign bank or otherwise, verification of the information or corrected information within 90 calendar days after the date of undertaking the verification, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
Verification of previously provided information.
In the case of a foreign bank with respect to which the covered financial institution undertakes to verify information pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, if the covered financial institution has not obtained, from the foreign bank or otherwise, verification of the information or corrected information within 90 calendar days after the date of undertaking the verification, the covered financial institution shall close all correspondent accounts with such foreign bank within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through any such account, other than transactions necessary to close the account.
(4) Reestablishment of closed accounts and establishment of new accounts. A covered financial institution shall not reestablish any account closed pursuant to this paragraph (d), and shall not establish any other correspondent account with the concerned foreign bank, until it obtains from the foreign bank the certification or the recertification, as appropriate.
Reestablishment of closed accounts and establishment of new accounts.
A covered financial institution shall not reestablish any account closed pursuant to this paragraph (d), and shall not establish any other correspondent account with the concerned foreign bank, until it obtains from the foreign bank the certification or the recertification, as appropriate.
(5) Limitation on liability. A covered financial institution shall not be liable to any person in any court or arbitration proceeding for terminating a correspondent account in accordance with this paragraph (d).
Limitation on liability.
A covered financial institution shall not be liable to any person in any court or arbitration proceeding for terminating a correspondent account in accordance with this paragraph (d).
(e) Recordkeeping requirement. A covered financial institution shall retain the original of any document provided by a foreign bank, and the original or a copy of any document otherwise relied upon by the covered financial institution, for purposes of this section, for at least 5 years after the date that the covered financial institution no longer maintains any correspondent account for such foreign bank. A covered financial institution shall retain such records with respect to any foreign bank for such longer period as the Secretary may direct.
Recordkeeping requirement.
A covered financial institution shall retain the original of any document provided by a foreign bank, and the original or a copy of any document otherwise relied upon by the covered financial institution, for purposes of this section, for at least 5 years after the date that the covered financial institution no longer maintains any correspondent account for such foreign bank. A covered financial institution shall retain such records with respect to any foreign bank for such longer period as the Secretary may direct.
(f) Special rules concerning information requested prior to October 28, 2002—(1) Definition. For purposes of this paragraph (f) the term “Interim Guidance” means:
Special rules concerning information requested prior to October 28, 2002
—(1)
Definition.
For purposes of this paragraph (f) the term “Interim Guidance” means:
(i) The Interim Guidance of the Department of the Treasury dated November 20, 2001 and published in the Federal Register on November 27, 2001; or
Federal Register
on November 27, 2001; or
(ii) The guidance issued in a document published in the Federal Register on December 28, 2001.
Federal Register
on December 28, 2001.
(2) Use of Interim Guidance certification. In the case of a correspondent account in existence on October 28, 2002, the term “certification” as used in paragraphs (b), (c), (d)(1), and (d)(3) of this section shall also include the certification appended to the Interim Guidance, provided that such certification was requested prior to October 28, 2002 and obtained by the covered financial institution on or before December 26, 2002.
Use of Interim Guidance certification.
In the case of a correspondent account in existence on October 28, 2002, the term “certification” as used in paragraphs (b), (c), (d)(1), and (d)(3) of this section shall also include the certification appended to the Interim Guidance, provided that such certification was requested prior to October 28, 2002 and obtained by the covered financial institution on or before December 26, 2002.
(3) Recordkeeping requirement. Paragraph (e) of this section shall apply to any document provided by a foreign bank, or otherwise relied upon by a covered financial institution, for purposes of the Interim Guidance.
Recordkeeping requirement.
Paragraph (e) of this section shall apply to any document provided by a foreign bank, or otherwise relied upon by a covered financial institution, for purposes of the Interim Guidance.

§ 1010.640   [Reserved]


Special Measures Under Section 311 of the USA Patriot Act and Law Enforcement Access to Foreign Bank Records


§ 1010.651   Special measures against Burma.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Burmese banking institution means any foreign bank, as that term is defined in § 1010.100(u), chartered or licensed by Burma, including branches and offices located outside Burma.
Burmese banking institution
means any foreign bank, as that term is defined in § 1010.100(u), chartered or licensed by Burma, including branches and offices located outside Burma.
(2) Correspondent account has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c).
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c).
(3) Covered financial institution has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(2) and also includes the following:
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(2) and also includes the following:
(i) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to register, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.); and
et seq.
); and
(ii) An investment company (as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) that is an open-end company (as defined in section 5 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) and that is registered, or required to register, with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to that Act.
(b) Requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Prohibition on correspondent accounts. A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent account that is established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States for, or on behalf of, a Burmese banking institution.
Requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on correspondent accounts.
A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent account that is established, maintained, administered, or managed in the United States for, or on behalf of, a Burmese banking institution.
(2) Prohibition on indirect correspondent accounts. (i) If a covered financial institution has or obtains knowledge that a correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed by that covered financial institution in the United States for a foreign bank is being used by the foreign bank to provide banking services indirectly to a Burmese banking institution, the covered financial institution shall ensure that the correspondent account is no longer used to provide such services, including, where necessary, terminating the correspondent account; and
Prohibition on indirect correspondent accounts.
(i) If a covered financial institution has or obtains knowledge that a correspondent account established, maintained, administered, or managed by that covered financial institution in the United States for a foreign bank is being used by the foreign bank to provide banking services indirectly to a Burmese banking institution, the covered financial institution shall ensure that the correspondent account is no longer used to provide such services, including, where necessary, terminating the correspondent account; and
(ii) A covered financial institution required to terminate an account pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section:
(A) Shall do so within a commercially reasonable time, and shall not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transactions through such account, other than those necessary to close the account; and
(B) May reestablish an account closed pursuant to this paragraph if it determines that the account will not be used to provide banking services indirectly to a Burmese banking institution.
(3) Exception. The provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section shall not apply to a correspondent account provided that the operation of such account is not prohibited by Executive Order 13310 and the transactions involving Burmese banking institutions that are conducted through the correspondent account are limited solely to transactions that are exempted from, or otherwise authorized by regulation, order, directive, or license pursuant to, Executive Order 13310.
Exception.
The provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section shall not apply to a correspondent account provided that the operation of such account is not prohibited by Executive Order 13310 and the transactions involving Burmese banking institutions that are conducted through the correspondent account are limited solely to transactions that are exempted from, or otherwise authorized by regulation, order, directive, or license pursuant to, Executive Order 13310.
(4) Reporting and recordkeeping not required. Nothing in this section shall require a covered financial institution to maintain any records, obtain any certification, or report any information not otherwise required by law or regulation.
Reporting and recordkeeping not required.
Nothing in this section shall require a covered financial institution to maintain any records, obtain any certification, or report any information not otherwise required by law or regulation.

§ 1010.653   Special measures against Commercial Bank of Syria.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Commercial Bank of Syria means any branch, office, or subsidiary of Commercial Bank of Syria operating in Syria or in any other jurisdiction, including Syrian Lebanese Commercial Bank.
Commercial Bank of Syria
means any branch, office, or subsidiary of Commercial Bank of Syria operating in Syria or in any other jurisdiction, including Syrian Lebanese Commercial Bank.
(2) Correspondent account has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
(3) Covered financial institution includes:
Covered financial institution
includes:
(i) An insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h)));
(ii) A commercial bank;
(iii) An agency or branch of a foreign bank in the United States;
(iv) A federally insured credit union;
(v) A savings association;
(vi) A corporation acting under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(vii) A trust bank or trust company that is federally regulated and is subject to an anti-money laundering program requirement;
(viii) A broker or dealer in securities registered, or required to be registered, with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(ix) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker registered, or required to be registered, with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to section 4(f)(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
(x) A mutual fund, which means an investment company (as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 ((“Investment Company Act”) (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1))) that is an open-end company (as defined in section 5(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5(a)(1))) and that is registered, or is required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Investment Company Act.
(4) Subsidiary means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b) Requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Prohibition on direct use of correspondent accounts. A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent account that is open or maintained in the United States for, or on behalf of, Commercial Bank of Syria.
Requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on direct use of correspondent accounts.
A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent account that is open or maintained in the United States for, or on behalf of, Commercial Bank of Syria.
(2) Due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit indirect use. (i) A covered financial institution shall apply due diligence to its correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their indirect use by Commercial Bank of Syria. At a minimum, that due diligence must include:
Due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit indirect use.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply due diligence to its correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their indirect use by Commercial Bank of Syria. At a minimum, that due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying correspondent account holders that the correspondent account may not be used to provide Commercial Bank of Syria with access to the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any indirect use of its correspondent accounts by Commercial Bank of Syria, to the extent that such indirect use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, additional due diligence measures it should adopt to guard against the indirect use of its correspondent accounts by Commercial Bank of Syria.
(iii) A covered financial institution that obtains knowledge that a correspondent account is being used by the foreign bank to provide indirect access to Commercial Bank of Syria shall take all appropriate steps to prevent such indirect access, including, where necessary, terminating the correspondent account.
(iv) A covered financial institution required to terminate a correspondent account pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section:
(A) Should do so within a commercially reasonable time, and should not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through such correspondent account, other than those necessary to close the correspondent account; and
(B) May reestablish a correspondent account closed pursuant to this paragraph if it determines that the correspondent account will not be used to provide banking services indirectly to Commercial Bank of Syria.
(3) Recordkeeping and reporting. (i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this section shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.

§ 1010.658   Special measures against FBME Bank, Ltd.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) FBME Bank, Ltd. means all branches, offices, and subsidiaries of FBME Bank, Ltd. operating in any jurisdiction.
FBME Bank, Ltd.
means all branches, offices, and subsidiaries of FBME Bank, Ltd. operating in any jurisdiction.
(2) Correspondent account has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
(3) Covered financial institution has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(4) Subsidiary means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b) Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts. A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account in the United States for, or on behalf of, FBME Bank, Ltd.
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain a correspondent account in the United States for, or on behalf of, FBME Bank, Ltd.
(2) Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use—(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving FBME Bank, Ltd. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use
—(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving FBME Bank, Ltd. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to know provide services to FBME Bank, Ltd., that such correspondents may not provide FBME Bank, Ltd. with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by FBME Bank, Ltd., to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving FBME Bank, Ltd.
(iii) A covered financial institution that obtains knowledge that a foreign correspondent account may be being used to process transactions involving FBME Bank, Ltd. shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(iv) A covered financial institution required to terminate a correspondent account pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section:
(A) Should do so within a commercially reasonable time, and should not permit the foreign bank to establish any new positions or execute any transaction through such correspondent account, other than those necessary to close the correspondent account; and
(B) May reestablish a correspondent account closed pursuant to this paragraph if it determines that the correspondent account will not be used to provide banking services indirectly to FBME Bank Ltd.
(3) Recordkeeping and reporting. (i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[[81 FR 18493, Mar. 31, 2016]]

§ 1010.659   Special measures against North Korea.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) North Korean banking institution means any bank organized under North Korean law, or any agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of such a bank.
North Korean banking institution
means any bank organized under North Korean law, or any agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of such a bank.
(2) North Korean financial institution means all branches, offices, or subsidiaries of any foreign financial institution, as defined at § 1010.605(f), chartered or licensed by North Korea, wherever located, including any branches, offices, or subsidiaries of such a financial institution operating in any jurisdiction, and any branch or office within North Korea of any foreign financial institution.
North Korean financial institution
means all branches, offices, or subsidiaries of any foreign financial institution, as defined at § 1010.605(f), chartered or licensed by North Korea, wherever located, including any branches, offices, or subsidiaries of such a financial institution operating in any jurisdiction, and any branch or office within North Korea of any foreign financial institution.
(3) Foreign bank has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100(u).
Foreign bank
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100(u).
(4) Correspondent account has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(i).
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(i).
(5) Covered financial institution has the same meaning as provided in § 

1010.605(e)(1).
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 

1010.605(e)(1).
(6) Subsidiary means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b) Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Opening or maintenance of correspondent accounts for a North Korean banking institution. A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, a North Korean banking institution.
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Opening or maintenance of correspondent accounts for a North Korean banking institution.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, a North Korean banking institution.
(2) Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts involving North Korean financial institutions. A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps to not process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign bank in the United States if such a transaction involves a North Korean financial institution.
Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts involving North Korean financial institutions.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps to not process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign bank in the United States if such a transaction involves a North Korean financial institution.
(3) Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use. (i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving North Korean financial institutions. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving North Korean financial institutions. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe provide services to a North Korean financial institution that such correspondents may not provide a North Korean financial institution with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by a North Korean financial institution, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving North Korean financial institutions.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process transactions involving a North Korean financial institution shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4) Recordkeeping and reporting. (i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[[81 FR 78721, Nov. 9, 2016]]

§ 1010.660   Special measures against Bank of Dandong.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Bank of Dandong means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Bank of Dandong Co., Ltd. operating in any jurisdiction.
Bank of Dandong
means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Bank of Dandong Co., Ltd. operating in any jurisdiction.
(2) Correspondent account has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
(3) Covered financial institution has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(4) Foreign banking institution means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
Foreign banking institution
means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
(5) Subsidiary means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b) Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Bank of Dandong. A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, Bank of Dandong.
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Bank of Dandong.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, Bank of Dandong.
(2) Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts involving Bank of Dandong. A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign banking institution in the United States if such a transaction involves Bank of Dandong.
Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts involving Bank of Dandong.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign banking institution in the United States if such a transaction involves Bank of Dandong.
(3) Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use. (i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe provide services to Bank of Dandong that such correspondents may not provide Bank of Dandong with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by Bank of Dandong, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4) Recordkeeping and reporting. (i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[[82 FR 51765, Nov. 8, 2017]]

§ 1010.661   Special measures against Iran.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Iranian financial institution means any foreign financial institution, as defined at § 1010.605(f), organized under Iranian law wherever located, including any agency, branch, office, or subsidiary of such a financial institution operating in any jurisdiction, and any branch or office within Iran of any foreign financial institution.
Iranian financial institution
means any foreign financial institution, as defined at § 1010.605(f), organized under Iranian law wherever located, including any agency, branch, office, or subsidiary of such a financial institution operating in any jurisdiction, and any branch or office within Iran of any foreign financial institution.
(2) Correspondent account has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c).
Correspondent account
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c).
(3) Covered financial institution has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
Covered financial institution
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(4) Foreign bank has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100.
Foreign bank
has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.100.
(5) Subsidiary means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
Subsidiary
means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b) Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Iranian financial institutions. A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, an Iranian financial institution, unless such account is authorized by United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Iranian financial institutions.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, an Iranian financial institution, unless such account is authorized by United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
Note 1 to paragraph (
b
)(1):
Note that covered financial institutions should block and report to OFAC any accounts that are blocked pursuant to any OFAC sanctions authority and therefore should continue to maintain such accounts in accordance with the Reporting Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
Note that covered financial institutions should block and report to OFAC any accounts that are blocked pursuant to any OFAC sanctions authority and therefore should continue to maintain such accounts in accordance with the Reporting Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.
(2) Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts. A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps to not process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign bank in the United States if such a transaction involves an Iranian financial institution, unless the transaction is authorized by, exempt from, or not prohibited under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), any regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto, or any other sanctions program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control.
Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps to not process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign bank in the United States if such a transaction involves an Iranian financial institution, unless the transaction is authorized by, exempt from, or not prohibited under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), any regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto, or any other sanctions program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control.
(3) Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use. (i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to the correspondent accounts of a foreign bank that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Iranian financial institutions that are prohibited, and not authorized or exempt, pursuant to the IEEPA, any regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto, or any other sanctions program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control (“prohibited transactions”). At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to the correspondent accounts of a foreign bank that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Iranian financial institutions that are prohibited, and not authorized or exempt, pursuant to the IEEPA, any regulation, order, directive, or license issued pursuant thereto, or any other sanctions program administered by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control (“prohibited transactions”). At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe the correspondent account is being used to process transactions involving Iranian financial institutions that such prohibited transactions may not take place; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts for prohibited transactions involving Iranian financial institutions, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process prohibited transactions involving Iranian financial institutions.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process prohibited transactions involving Iranian financial institutions shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4) Recordkeeping and reporting. (i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in this section.
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in this section.
(ii) Nothing in this section shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[[84 FR 59313, Nov. 14, 2019]]

§ 1010.663   Special measures regarding Al-Huda Bank.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
(1) Al-Huda Bank. The term “Al-Huda Bank” means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Al-Huda Bank operating as a bank in any jurisdiction.
Al-Huda Bank.
The term “Al-Huda Bank” means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Al-Huda Bank operating as a bank in any jurisdiction.
(2) Correspondent account. The term “correspondent account” has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
Correspondent account.
The term “correspondent account” has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).
(3) Covered financial institution. The term “covered financial institution” has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
Covered financial institution.
The term “covered financial institution” has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).
(4) Foreign banking institution. The term “foreign banking institution” means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
Foreign banking institution.
The term “foreign banking institution” means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
(5) Subsidiary. The term “subsidiary” means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
Subsidiary.
The term “subsidiary” means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.
(b) Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Prohibition on opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Al-Huda Bank. A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, Al-Huda Bank.
(2) Prohibition on processing transactions involving Al-Huda Bank. A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account in the United States of a foreign banking institution if such a transaction involves Al-Huda Bank.
Prohibition on processing transactions involving Al-Huda Bank.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account in the United States of a foreign banking institution if such a transaction involves Al-Huda Bank.
(3) Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit transactions. (i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Al-Huda Bank. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit transactions.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Al-Huda Bank. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe provide services to Al-Huda Bank that such correspondents may not provide Al-Huda Bank with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by Al-Huda Bank, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving Al-Huda Bank.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process transactions involving Al-Huda Bank shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4) Recordkeeping and reporting. (i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[[89 FR 55058, July 3, 2024]]

§ 1010.664   Special measures regarding Huione Group.

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
(1) Huione Group. The term “Huione Group” means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Huione Group operating as a financial institution in any jurisdiction outside of the United States, including Haowang Guarantee (formerly known as Huione Guarantee), Huione Pay PLC, and Huione Crypto Spółka Z Ograniczoną Odpowiedzialnością (d/b/a Huione Crypto).
Huione Group.
The term “Huione Group” means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Huione Group operating as a financial institution in any jurisdiction outside of the United States, including Haowang Guarantee (formerly known as Huione Guarantee), Huione Pay PLC, and Huione Crypto Spółka Z Ograniczoną Odpowiedzialnością (d/b/a Huione Crypto).
(2) Correspondent account. The term “correspondent account” has the same meaning as provided in 1010.605(c)(l)(ii).
Correspondent account.
The term “correspondent account” has the same meaning as provided in 1010.605(c)(l)(ii).
(3) Covered financial institution. The term “covered financial institution” has the same meaning as provided in 1010.605(e)(1).
Covered financial institution.
The term “covered financial institution” has the same meaning as provided in 1010.605(e)(1).
(4) Foreign banking institution. The term “foreign banking institution” means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
Foreign banking institution.
The term “foreign banking institution” means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.
(5) Subsidiary. The term “subsidiary” means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or an otherwise controlling interest is owned by another company.
Subsidiary.
The term “subsidiary” means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or an otherwise controlling interest is owned by another company.
(b) Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions—(1) Prohibition on opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Huione Group. A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, Huione Group.
Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions
—(1)
Prohibition on opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Huione Group.
A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, Huione Group.
(2) Prohibition on processing transactions involving Huione Group. A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account in the United States of a foreign banking institution if such a transaction involves Huione Group.
Prohibition on processing transactions involving Huione Group.
A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account in the United States of a foreign banking institution if such a transaction involves Huione Group.
(3) Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit transactions. (i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Huione Group. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit transactions.
(i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Huione Group. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:
(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe provide services to Huione Group that such correspondents may not provide Huione Group with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and
(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by Huione Group, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.
(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving Huione Group.
(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process transactions involving Huione Group shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.
(4) Recordkeeping and reporting. (i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notification requirement set forth in this section.
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notification requirement set forth in this section.
(ii) Nothing in paragraph (b) of this section shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.
[[90 FR 48311, Oct. 16, 2025]]

§ 1010.670   Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

(a) Definitions. The definitions in § 1010.605 apply to this section.
Definitions.
The definitions in § 1010.605 apply to this section.
(b) Issuance to foreign banks. The Secretary or the Attorney General may issue a summons or subpoena to any foreign bank that maintains a correspondent account in the United States and may request records related to such correspondent account, including records maintained outside of the United States relating to the deposit of funds into the foreign bank. The summons or subpoena may be served on the foreign bank in the United States if the foreign bank has a representative in the United States, or in a foreign country pursuant to any mutual legal assistance treaty, multilateral agreement, or other request for international law enforcement assistance.
Issuance to foreign banks.
The Secretary or the Attorney General may issue a summons or subpoena to any foreign bank that maintains a correspondent account in the United States and may request records related to such correspondent account, including records maintained outside of the United States relating to the deposit of funds into the foreign bank. The summons or subpoena may be served on the foreign bank in the United States if the foreign bank has a representative in the United States, or in a foreign country pursuant to any mutual legal assistance treaty, multilateral agreement, or other request for international law enforcement assistance.
(c) Issuance to covered financial institutions. Upon receipt of a written request from a Federal law enforcement officer for information required to be maintained by a covered financial institution under paragraph (a)(2) of § 1010.630, the covered financial institution shall provide the information to the requesting officer not later than 7 days after receipt of the request.
Issuance to covered financial institutions.
Upon receipt of a written request from a Federal law enforcement officer for information required to be maintained by a covered financial institution under paragraph (a)(2) of § 1010.630, the covered financial institution shall provide the information to the requesting officer not later than 7 days after receipt of the request.
(d) Termination upon receipt of notice. A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent relationship with a foreign bank not later than 10 business days after receipt of written notice from the Secretary or the Attorney General (in each case, after consultation with the other) that the foreign bank has failed:
Termination upon receipt of notice.
A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent relationship with a foreign bank not later than 10 business days after receipt of written notice from the Secretary or the Attorney General (in each case, after consultation with the other) that the foreign bank has failed:
(1) To comply with a summons or subpoena issued under paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) To initiate proceedings in a United States court contesting such summons or subpoena.
(e) Limitation on liability. A covered financial institution shall not be liable to any person in any court or arbitration proceeding for terminating a correspondent relationship in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
Limitation on liability.
A covered financial institution shall not be liable to any person in any court or arbitration proceeding for terminating a correspondent relationship in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(f) Failure to terminate relationship. Failure to terminate a correspondent relationship in accordance with this section shall render the covered financial institution liable for a civil penalty of up to $10,000 per day until the correspondent relationship is so terminated.
Failure to terminate relationship.
Failure to terminate a correspondent relationship in accordance with this section shall render the covered financial institution liable for a civil penalty of up to $10,000 per day until the correspondent relationship is so terminated.

Subpart G—Administrative Rulings


§ 1010.710   Scope.

This subpart provides that the Director, FinCEN, or his designee, either unilaterally or upon request, may issue administrative rulings interpreting the application of this chapter.

§ 1010.711   Submitting requests.

(a) Each request for an administrative ruling must be in writing and contain the following information:
(1) A complete description of the situation for which the ruling is requested,
(2) A complete statement of all material facts related to the subject transaction,
(3) A concise and unambiguous question to be answered,
(4) A statement certifying, to the best of the requestor's knowledge and belief, that the question to be answered is not applicable to any ongoing state or Federal investigation, litigation, grand jury proceeding, or proceeding before any other governmental body involving either the requestor, any other party to the subject transaction, or any other party with whom the requestor has an agency relationship,
(5) A statement identifying any information in the request that the requestor considers to be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the reason therefor,
(6) If the subject situation is hypothetical, a statement justifying why the particular situation described warrants the issuance of a ruling,
(7) The signature of the person making the request, or
(8) If an agent makes the request, the signature of the agent and a statement certifying the authority under which the request is made.
(b) A request filed by a corporation shall be signed by a corporate officer and a request filed by a partnership shall be signed by a partner.
(c) A request may advocate a particular proposed interpretation and may set forth the legal and factual basis for that interpretation.
(d) Requests shall be addressed to: Director, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, P.O. Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
(e) The requester shall advise the Director, FinCEN, immediately in writing of any subsequent change in any material fact or statement submitted with a ruling request in conformity with paragraph (a) of this section.

§ 1010.712   Nonconforming requests.

The Director, FinCEN, or his designee shall notify the requester if the ruling request does not conform with the requirements of § 1010.711. The notice shall be in writing and shall describe the requirements that have not been met. A request that is not brought into conformity with such requirements within 30 days from the date of such notice, unless extended for good cause by FinCEN, shall be treated as though it were withdrawn.

§ 1010.713   Oral communications.

(a) The Director of FinCEN or his designee will not issue administrative rulings in response to oral requests. Oral opinions or advice by Treasury, Customs and Border Protection, the Internal Revenue Service, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or any other bank supervisory agency personnel, regarding the interpretation and application of this chapter, do not bind FinCEN and carry no precedential value.
(b) A person who has made a ruling request in conformity with § 1010.711 may request an opportunity for oral discussion of the issues presented in the request. The request should be made to the Director, FinCEN, and any decision to grant such a conference is wholly within the discretion of the Director. Personal conferences or telephone conferences may be scheduled only for the purpose of affording the requester an opportunity to discuss freely and openly the matters set forth in the administrative ruling request. Accordingly, the conferees will not be bound by any argument or position advocated or agreed to, expressly or impliedly, during the conference. Any new arguments or facts put forth by the requester at the meeting must be reduced to writing by the requester and submitted in conformity with § 1010.711 before they may be considered in connection with the request.

§ 1010.714   Withdrawing requests.

A person may withdraw a request for an administrative ruling at any time before the ruling has been issued.

§ 1010.715   Issuing rulings.

The Director, FinCEN, or his designee may issue a written ruling interpreting the relationship between this chapter and each situation for which such a ruling has been requested in conformity with § 1010.711. A ruling issued under this section shall bind FinCEN only in the event that the request describes a specifically identified actual situation. A ruling issued under this section shall have precedential value, and hence may be relied upon by others similarly situated, only if FinCEN makes it available to the public through publication on the FinCEN Web site under the heading “Administrative rulings” or other appropriate forum. All rulings with precedential value will be available by mail to any person upon written request specifically identifying the ruling sought. FinCEN will make every effort to respond to each requestor within 90 days of receiving a request.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1506-0050)
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]]

§ 1010.716   Modifying or rescinding rulings.

(a) The Director, FinCEN, or his designee may modify or rescind any ruling made pursuant to § 1010.715:
(1) When, in light of changes in the statute or regulations, the ruling no longer sets forth the interpretation of the Director, FinCEN with respect to the described situation,
(2) When any fact or statement submitted in the original ruling request is found to be materially inaccurate or incomplete, or
(3) For other good cause.
(b) Any person may submit to the Director, FinCEN a written request that an administrative ruling be modified or rescinded. The request should conform to the requirements of § 1010.711, explain why rescission or modification is warranted, and refer to any reasons in paragraph (a) of this section that are relevant. The request may advocate an alternative interpretation and may set forth the legal and factual basis for that interpretation.
(c) FinCEN shall modify an existing administrative ruling by issuing a new ruling that rescinds the relevant prior ruling. Once rescinded, an administrative ruling shall no longer have any precedential value.
(d) An administrative ruling may be modified or rescinded retroactively with respect to one or more parties to the original ruling request if the Director, FinCEN, determines that:
(1) A fact or statement in the original ruling request was materially inaccurate or incomplete,
(2) The requestor failed to notify in writing FinCEN of a material change to any fact or statement in the original request, or
(3) A party to the original request acted in bad faith when relying upon the ruling.

§ 1010.717   Disclosing information.

(a) Any part of any administrative ruling, including names, addresses, or information related to the business transactions of private parties, may be disclosed pursuant to a request under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. If the request for an administrative ruling contains information which the requestor wishes to be considered for exemption from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, the requestor should clearly identify such portions of the request and the reasons why such information should be exempt from disclosure.
(b) A requestor claiming an exemption from disclosure will be notified, at least 10 days before the administrative ruling is issued, of a decision not to exempt any of such information from disclosure so that the underlying request for an administrative ruling can be withdrawn if the requestor so chooses.

Subpart H—Enforcement; Penalties; and Forfeiture


§ 1010.810   Enforcement.

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72275, Sept. 4, 2024.
(a) Overall authority for enforcement and compliance, including coordination and direction of procedures and activities of all other agencies exercising delegated authority under this chapter, is delegated to the Director, FinCEN.
(b) Authority to examine institutions to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter is delegated as follows:
(1) To the Comptroller of the Currency with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by national bank examiners;
(2) To the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by Federal Reserve bank examiners;
(3) To the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by FDIC bank examiners;
(4) To the Federal Home Loan Bank Board with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by FHLBB bank examiners;
(5) To the Chairman of the Board of the National Credit Union Administration with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by NCUA examiners.
(6) To the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to brokers and dealers in securities and investment companies as that term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80-1 et seq.);
et seq.
);
(7) To the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection with respect to §§ 1010.340 and 1010.830;
(8) To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue with respect to all financial institutions, except brokers or dealers in securities, mutual funds, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers in commodities, and commodity trading advisors, not currently examined by Federal bank supervisory agencies for soundness and safety; and
(9) To the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to futures commission merchants, introducing brokers in commodities, and commodity trading advisors.
(10) To the Federal Housing Finance Agency with respect to the housing government sponsored enterprises, as defined in § 1010.100(mmm) of this part.
(c) Authority for investigating criminal violations of this chapter is delegated as follows:
(1) To the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection with respect to § 1010.340;
(2) To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue except with respect to § 1010.340.
(d) Authority for the imposition of civil penalties for violations of this chapter lies with the Director of FinCEN.
(e) Periodic reports shall be made to the Director, FinCEN by each agency to which compliance authority has been delegated under paragraph (b) of this section. These reports shall be in such a form and submitted at such intervals as the Director, FinCEN may direct. Evidence of specific violations of any of the requirements of this chapter may be submitted to the Director, FinCEN at any time.
(f) The Director, FinCEN or his delegate, and any agency to which compliance has been delegated under paragraph (b) of this section, may examine any books, papers, records, or other data of domestic financial institutions relevant to the recordkeeping or reporting requirements of this chapter.
(g) The authority to enforce the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 5314 and §§ 1010.350 and 1010.420 of this chapter has been redelegated from FinCEN to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue by means of a Memorandum of Agreement between FinCEN and IRS. Such authority includes, with respect to 31 U.S.C. 5314 and 1010.350 and 1010.420 of this chapter, the authority to: assess and collect civil penalties under 31 U.S.C. 5321 and 31 CFR 1010.820; investigate possible civil violations of these provisions (in addition to the authority already provided at paragraph (c)(2)) of this section); employ the summons power of subpart I of this part 1010; issue administrative rulings under subpart G of this part 1010; and take any other action reasonably necessary for the enforcement of these and related provisions, including pursuit of injunctions.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 103755, Feb. 25, 2014]]

§ 1010.820   [Reserved]


§ 1010.821   Penalty adjustment and table.

(a) Inflation adjustments. In accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, (“FCPIA Act”), as further amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, FinCEN has set forth in paragraph (b) of this section adjusted maximum penalty amounts for each civil monetary penalty provided by law within its jurisdiction that is subject to the FCPIA Act. The adjusted civil monetary penalty amounts replace the amounts published in the statutes authorizing the assessment of penalties.
Inflation adjustments.
In accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, (“FCPIA Act”), as further amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, FinCEN has set forth in paragraph (b) of this section adjusted maximum penalty amounts for each civil monetary penalty provided by law within its jurisdiction that is subject to the FCPIA Act. The adjusted civil monetary penalty amounts replace the amounts published in the statutes authorizing the assessment of penalties.
(b) Maximum civil monetary penalties. The statutory penalty provisions and their adjusted maximum amounts or range of minimum and maximum amounts are set out in Table 1. The last column in the table provides the newly effective maximum penalty amounts or range of minimum and maximum amounts. These maximum penalty amounts do not, however, limit the total amount of a penalty in the case of a penalty that may be imposed for each day a violation continues.
Maximum civil monetary penalties.
The statutory penalty provisions and their adjusted maximum amounts or range of minimum and maximum amounts are set out in Table 1. The last column in the table provides the newly effective maximum penalty amounts or range of minimum and maximum amounts. These maximum penalty amounts do not, however, limit the total amount of a penalty in the case of a penalty that may be imposed for each day a violation continues.
Table 1 to § 1010.821—Penalty Adjustment Table
U.S. Code citation
Civil monetary penalty description
Penalties as last
amended by statute
Maximum penalty
amounts or range of
minimum and maximum
penalty amounts for
penalties assessed on or
after January 17, 2025
12 U.S.C. 1829b(j)
Relating to Recordkeeping Violations for Funds Transfers
$10,000
$26,262
12 U.S.C. 1955
Willful or Grossly Negligent Recordkeeping Violations
10,000
26,262
31 U.S.C. 5318(k)(3)(C)
Failure to Terminate Correspondent Relationship with Foreign Bank
10,000
17,765
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(1)
General Civil Penalty Provision for Willful Violations of Bank Secrecy Act Requirements
25,000
−100,000
71,545
−286,184
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(5)(B)(i)
Foreign Financial Agency Transaction—Non-Willful Violation of Transaction
10,000
16,536
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(5)(C)(i)(I)
Foreign Financial Agency Transaction—Willful Violation of Transaction
100,000
165,353
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(6)(A)
Negligent Violation by Financial Institution or Non-Financial Trade or Business
500
1,430
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(6)(B)
Pattern of Negligent Activity by Financial Institution or Non-Financial Trade or Business
50,000
111,308
31 U.S.C. 5321(a)(7)
Violation of Certain Due Diligence Requirements, Prohibition on Correspondent Accounts for Shell Banks, and Special Measures
1,000,000
1,776,364
31 U.S.C. 5330(e)
Civil Penalty for Failure to Register as Money Transmitting Business
5,000
10,556
31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(A)(i)
Civil Penalty for Beneficial Ownership Information Reporting Violation
500
606
31 U.S.C. 5336(h)(3)(B)(i)
Civil Penalty for Unauthorized Disclosure or Use of Beneficial Ownership Information
500
606
[[81 FR 42505, June 30, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 10439, Feb. 10, 2017; 83 FR 11881, Mar. 19, 2018; 85 FR 9371, Feb. 19, 2020; 86 FR 7349, Jan. 28, 2020; 86 FR 7810, Feb. 2, 2021; 87 FR 3434, Jan. 24, 2022; 88 FR 3312, Jan. 19, 2023; 88 FR 7357, Feb. 3, 2023; 89 FR 4821, Jan. 25, 2024; 90 FR 5630, Jan. 17, 2025]]

§ 1010.830   Forfeiture of currency or monetary instruments.

Any currency or other monetary instruments which are in the process of any transportation with respect to which a report is required under § 1010.340 are subject to seizure and forfeiture to the United States if such report has not been filed as required in § 1010.360, or contains material omissions or misstatements. The Secretary may, in his sole discretion, remit or mitigate any such forfeiture in whole or in part upon such terms and conditions as he deems reasonable.

§ 1010.840   Criminal penalty.

(a) Any person who willfully violates any provision of Title I of Public Law 91-508, or of this chapter authorized thereby may, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $1,000 or be imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both. Such person may in addition, if the violation is of any provision authorized by Title I of Public Law 91-508 and if the violation is committed in furtherance of the commission of any violation of Federal law punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year, be fined not more than $10,000 or be imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(b) Any person who willfully violates any provision of Title II of Public Law 91-508, or of this chapter authorized thereby, may, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $250,000 or be imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(c) Any person who willfully violates any provision of Title II of Public Law 91-508, or of this chapter authorized thereby, where the violation is either
(1) Committed while violating another law of the United States, or
(2) Committed as part of a pattern of any illegal activity involving more than $100,000 in any 12-month period, may, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500,000 or be imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.
(d) Any person who knowingly makes any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation in any report required by this chapter may, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $10,000 or be imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.

§ 1010.850   Enforcement authority with respect to transportation of currency or monetary instruments.

(a) If a customs officer has reasonable cause to believe that there is a monetary instrument being transported without the filing of the report required by §§ 1010.340 and 1010.360 of this chapter, he may stop and search, without a search warrant, a vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or other conveyance, envelope or other container, or person entering or departing from the United States with respect to which or whom the officer reasonably believes is transporting such instrument.
(b) If the Secretary has reason to believe that currency or monetary instruments are in the process of transportation and with respect to which a report required under § 1010.340 has not been filed or contains material omissions or misstatements, he may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a search warrant. Upon a showing of probable cause, the court may issue a warrant authorizing the search of any or all of the following:
(1) One or more designated persons.
(2) One or more designated or described places or premises.
(3) One or more designated or described letters, parcels, packages, or other physical objects.
(4) One or more designated or described vehicles. Any application for a search warrant pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by allegations of fact supporting the application.
(c) This section is not in derogation of the authority of the Secretary under any other law or regulation.

Subpart I—Summons


§ 1010.911   General.

For any investigation for the purpose of civil enforcement of violations of the Bank Secrecy Act, or any regulation issued pursuant to the Bank Secrecy Act, the Secretary or delegate of the Secretary may summon a financial institution or an officer or employee of a financial institution (including a former officer or employee), or any person having possession, custody, or care of any of the records and reports required under the Bank Secrecy Act or this chapter to appear before the Secretary or his delegate, at a time and place named in the summons, and to give testimony, under oath, and be examined, and to produce such books, papers, records, or other data as may be relevant or material to such investigation.

§ 1010.912   Persons who may issue summons.

For purposes of this chapter, the following officials are hereby designated as delegates of the Secretary who are authorized to issue a summons under § 1010.911, solely for the purposes of civil enforcement of this chapter:
(a) FinCEN. The Director, FinCEN.
FinCEN.
The Director, FinCEN.
(b) Internal Revenue Service. Except with respect to § 1010.340 of this chapter, the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, or a delegate of either official, and, for the purposes of perfecting seizures and forfeitures related to civil enforcement of this chapter, the Chief (Criminal Investigation) or a delegate.
Internal Revenue Service.
Except with respect to § 1010.340 of this chapter, the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, or a delegate of either official, and, for the purposes of perfecting seizures and forfeitures related to civil enforcement of this chapter, the Chief (Criminal Investigation) or a delegate.
(c) Customs and Border Protection. With respect to § 1010.340 of this chapter, the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, the Assistant Commissioner (Enforcement), Regional Commissioners, Assistant Regional Commissioners (Enforcement), and Special Agents in Charge.
Customs and Border Protection.
With respect to § 1010.340 of this chapter, the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, the Assistant Commissioner (Enforcement), Regional Commissioners, Assistant Regional Commissioners (Enforcement), and Special Agents in Charge.

§ 1010.913   Contents of summons.

(a) Summons for testimony. Any summons issued under § 1010.911 of this chapter to compel the appearance and testimony of a person shall state:
Summons for testimony.
Any summons issued under § 1010.911 of this chapter to compel the appearance and testimony of a person shall state:
(1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person before whom the appearance shall take place (who may be a person other than the persons who are authorized to issue such a summons under § 1010.912 of this chapter);
(2) The address to which the person summoned shall report for the appearance;
(3) The date and time of the appearance; and
(4) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who has issued the summons.
(b) Summons of books, papers, records, or data. Any summons issued under § 1010.911 of this chapter to require the production of books, papers, records, or other data shall describe the materials to be produced with reasonable specificity, and shall state:
Summons of books, papers, records, or data.
Any summons issued under § 1010.911 of this chapter to require the production of books, papers, records, or other data shall describe the materials to be produced with reasonable specificity, and shall state:
(1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person to whom the materials shall be produced (who may be a person other than the persons who are authorized to issue such a summons under § 1010.912 of this chapter);
(2) The address at which the person summoned shall produce the materials, not to exceed 500 miles from any place where the financial institution operates or conducts business in the United States;
(3) The specific manner of production, whether by personal delivery, by mail, or by messenger service;
(4) The date and time for production; and
(5) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who has issued the summons.

§ 1010.914   Service of summons.

(a) Who may serve. Any delegate of the Secretary authorized under § 1010.912 of this chapter to issue a summons, or any other person authorized by law to serve summonses or other process, is hereby authorized to serve a summons issued under this chapter.
Who may serve.
Any delegate of the Secretary authorized under § 1010.912 of this chapter to issue a summons, or any other person authorized by law to serve summonses or other process, is hereby authorized to serve a summons issued under this chapter.
(b) Manner of service. Service of a summons may be made—
Manner of service.
Service of a summons may be made—
(1) Upon any person, by registered mail, return receipt requested, directed to the person summoned;
(2) Upon a natural person by personal delivery; or
(3) Upon any other person by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or any other agent authorized to receive service of process.
(c) Certificate of service. The summons shall contain a certificate of service to be signed by the server of the summons. On the hearing of an application for enforcement of the summons, the certificate of service signed by the person serving the summons shall be evidence of the facts it states.
Certificate of service.
The summons shall contain a certificate of service to be signed by the server of the summons. On the hearing of an application for enforcement of the summons, the certificate of service signed by the person serving the summons shall be evidence of the facts it states.

§ 1010.915   Examination of witnesses and records.

(a) General. Any delegate of the Secretary authorized under § 1010.912 of this chapter to issue a summons, or any officer or employee of the Treasury Department or any component thereof who is designated by that person (whether in the summons or otherwise), is hereby authorized to receive evidence and to examine witnesses pursuant to the summons. Any person authorized by law may administer any oaths and affirmations that may be required under this subpart.
General.
Any delegate of the Secretary authorized under § 1010.912 of this chapter to issue a summons, or any officer or employee of the Treasury Department or any component thereof who is designated by that person (whether in the summons or otherwise), is hereby authorized to receive evidence and to examine witnesses pursuant to the summons. Any person authorized by law may administer any oaths and affirmations that may be required under this subpart.
(b) Testimony taken under oath. Testimony of any person under this chapter may be taken under oath, and shall be taken down in writing by the person examining the person summoned or shall be otherwise transcribed. After the testimony of a witness has been transcribed, a copy of that transcript shall be made available to the witness upon request, unless for good cause the person issuing the summons determines, under 5 U.S.C. 555, that a copy should not be provided. If such a determination has been made, the witness shall be limited to inspection of the official transcript of the testimony.
Testimony taken under oath.
Testimony of any person under this chapter may be taken under oath, and shall be taken down in writing by the person examining the person summoned or shall be otherwise transcribed. After the testimony of a witness has been transcribed, a copy of that transcript shall be made available to the witness upon request, unless for good cause the person issuing the summons determines, under 5 U.S.C. 555, that a copy should not be provided. If such a determination has been made, the witness shall be limited to inspection of the official transcript of the testimony.
(c) Disclosure of summons, testimony, or records. Unless the Secretary or a delegate of the Secretary listed under § 1010.912(a) of this chapter so authorizes in writing, or it is otherwise required by law, no delegate of the Secretary listed under § 1010.912 (b) or (c) of this chapter or other officer or employee of the Treasury Department or any component thereof shall—
Disclosure of summons, testimony, or records.
Unless the Secretary or a delegate of the Secretary listed under § 1010.912(a) of this chapter so authorizes in writing, or it is otherwise required by law, no delegate of the Secretary listed under § 1010.912 (b) or (c) of this chapter or other officer or employee of the Treasury Department or any component thereof shall—
(1) Make public the name of any person to whom a summons has been issued under this chapter, or release any information to the public concerning that person or the issuance of a summons to that person prior to the time and date set for that person's appearance or production of records; or
(2) Disclose any testimony taken (including the name of the witness) or material presented pursuant to the summons, to any person other than an officer or employee of the Treasury Department or of any component thereof. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall preclude a delegate of the Secretary, or other officer or employee of the Treasury Department or any component thereof, from disclosing testimony taken, or material presented pursuant to a summons issued under this chapter, to any person in order to obtain necessary information for investigative purposes relating to the performance of official duties, or to any officer or employee of the Department of Justice in connection with a possible violation of Federal law.

§ 1010.916   Enforcement of summons.

In the case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a summons issued to, any person under this chapter, the Secretary or any delegate of the Secretary listed under § 1010.912 of this chapter shall refer the matter to the Attorney General or delegate of the Attorney General (including any United States Attorney or Assistant United States Attorney, as appropriate), who may bring an action to compel compliance with the summons in any court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which the investigation which gave rise to the summons being or has been carried on, the jurisdiction in which the person summoned is a resident, or the jurisdiction in which the person summoned carries on business or may be found. When a referral is made by a delegate of the Secretary other than a delegate named in § 1010.912(a) of this chapter, prompt notification of the referral must be made to the Director, FinCEN. The court may issue an order requiring the person summoned to appear before the Secretary or delegate of the Secretary to produce books, papers, records, or other data, to give testimony as may be necessary in order to explain how such material was compiled and maintained, and to pay the costs of the proceeding. Any failure to obey the order of the court may be punished by the court as a contempt thereof. All process in any case under this section may be served in any judicial district in which such person may be found.

§ 1010.917   Payment of expenses.

Persons summoned under this chapter shall be paid the same fees and mileage for travel in the United States that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States. The United States shall not be liable for any other expense incurred in connection with the production of books, papers, records, or other data under this chapter.

Subpart J—Miscellaneous


§ 1010.920   Access to records.

Except as provided in §§ 1020.410(b)(1), 1021.410(a), and 1023.410(a)(1), and except for the purpose of assuring compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this chapter, this chapter does not authorize the Secretary or any other person to inspect or review the records required to be maintained by this chapter. Other inspection, review or access to such records is governed by other applicable law.

§ 1010.930   Rewards for informants.

(a) If an individual provides original information which leads to a recovery of a criminal fine, civil penalty, or forfeiture, which exceeds $50,000, for a violation of the provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act or of this chapter, the Secretary may pay a reward to that individual.
(b) The Secretary shall determine the amount of the reward to be paid under this section; however, any reward paid may not be more than 25 percent of the net amount of the fine, penalty or forfeiture collected, or $150,000, whichever is less.
(c) An officer or employee of the United States, a State, or a local government who provides original information described in paragraph (a) in the performance of official duties is not eligible for a reward under this section.

§ 1010.940   Photographic or other reproductions of Government obligations.

Nothing herein contained shall require or authorize the reproduction of:
(a) Currency or other obligation or security of the United States as defined in 18 U.S.C. 8, or
(b) Any obligation or other security of any foreign government, the reproduction of which is prohibited by law.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]]

§ 1010.950   Availability of information—general.

(a) The Secretary has the discretion to disclose information reported under this chapter, other than information reported pursuant to § 1010.380, for any reason consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act, including those set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. FinCEN may disclose information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 only as set forth in § 1010.955, and paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall not apply to the disclosure of such information.
(b) The Secretary may make any information set forth in any report received pursuant to this chapter available to another agency of the United States, to an agency of a state or local government or to an agency of a foreign government, upon the request of the head of such department or agency made in writing and stating the particular information desired, the criminal, tax or regulatory purpose for which the information is sought, and the official need for the information.
(c) The Secretary may make any information set forth in any report received pursuant to this chapter available to the Congress, or any committee or subcommittee thereof, upon a written request stating the particular information desired, the criminal, tax or regulatory purpose for which the information is sought, and the official need for the information.
(d) The Secretary may make any information set forth in any report received pursuant to this chapter available to any other department or agency of the United States that is a member of the Intelligence Community, as defined by Executive Order 12333 or any succeeding executive order, upon the request of the head of such department or agency made in writing and stating the particular information desired, the national security matter with which the information is sought and the official need therefor.
(e) Any information made available under this section to other department or agencies of the United States, any state or local government, or any foreign government shall be received by them in confidence, and shall not be disclosed to any person except for official purposes relating to the investigation, proceeding or matter in connection with which the information is sought.
(f) The Secretary may require that a State or local government department or agency requesting information under paragraph (b) of this section pay fees to reimburse the Department of the Treasury for costs incidental to such disclosure. The amount of such fees will be set in accordance with the statute on fees for government services, 31 U.S.C. 9701.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 88808, Dec. 22, 2023]]

§ 1010.955   Availability of beneficial ownership information reported under this part.

(a) Prohibition on disclosure. Except as authorized in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, information reported to FinCEN pursuant to § 1010.380 is confidential and shall not be disclosed by any individual who receives such information as—
Prohibition on disclosure.
Except as authorized in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, information reported to FinCEN pursuant to § 1010.380 is confidential and shall not be disclosed by any individual who receives such information as—
(1) An officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the United States;
(2) An officer, employee, contractor, or agent of any State, local, or Tribal agency; or
(3) A director, officer, employee, contractor, or agent of any financial institution.
(b) Disclosure of information by FinCEN—(1) Disclosure to Federal agencies for use in furtherance of national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity. Upon receipt of a request from a Federal agency engaged in national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in furtherance of such activity, FinCEN may disclose such information to such agency. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)—
Disclosure of information by FinCEN
—(1)
Disclosure to Federal agencies for use in furtherance of national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity.
Upon receipt of a request from a Federal agency engaged in national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in furtherance of such activity, FinCEN may disclose such information to such agency. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)—
(i) National security activity means activity pertaining to the national defense or foreign relations of the United States, as well as activity to protect against threats to the safety and security of the United States;
(ii) Intelligence activity means all activities conducted by elements of the United States Intelligence Community that are authorized pursuant to Executive Order 12333, as amended, or any succeeding executive order; and
(iii) Law enforcement activity means investigative and enforcement activities relating to civil or criminal violations of law. Such activity does not include the routine supervision or examination of a financial institution by a Federal regulatory agency with authority described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section.
(2) Disclosure to State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies for use in criminal or civil investigations. Upon receipt of a request from a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in a criminal or civil investigation, FinCEN may disclose such information to such agency if a court of competent jurisdiction has authorized the agency to seek the information in a criminal or civil investigation. For purposes of this section—
Disclosure to State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies for use in criminal or civil investigations.
Upon receipt of a request from a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in a criminal or civil investigation, FinCEN may disclose such information to such agency if a court of competent jurisdiction has authorized the agency to seek the information in a criminal or civil investigation. For purposes of this section—
(i) A court of competent jurisdiction is any court with jurisdiction over the investigation for which a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency requests information under this paragraph.
(ii) A State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency is an agency of a State, local, or Tribal government that is authorized by law to engage in the investigation or enforcement of civil or criminal violations of law.
(3) Disclosure for use in furtherance of foreign national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity. Upon receipt of a request for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 from a Federal agency on behalf of a law enforcement agency, prosecutor, or judge of another country, or on behalf of a foreign central authority or foreign competent authority (or like designation) under an applicable international treaty, agreement, or convention, FinCEN may disclose such information to such Federal agency for transmission to the foreign law enforcement agency, prosecutor, judge, foreign central authority, or foreign competent authority who initiated the request, provided that:
Disclosure for use in furtherance of foreign national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity.
Upon receipt of a request for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 from a Federal agency on behalf of a law enforcement agency, prosecutor, or judge of another country, or on behalf of a foreign central authority or foreign competent authority (or like designation) under an applicable international treaty, agreement, or convention, FinCEN may disclose such information to such Federal agency for transmission to the foreign law enforcement agency, prosecutor, judge, foreign central authority, or foreign competent authority who initiated the request, provided that:
(i) The request is for assistance in a law enforcement investigation or prosecution, or for a national security or intelligence activity, that is authorized under the laws of the foreign country; and
(ii) The request is:
(A) Made under an international treaty, agreement, or convention; or
(B) Made, when no such treaty, agreement, or convention is available, as an official request by a law enforcement, judicial, or prosecutorial authority of a foreign country determined by FinCEN, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and in consultation with the Attorney General or other agencies as necessary and appropriate, to be a trusted foreign country.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), a national security activity authorized under the laws of a foreign country is an activity pertaining to the national defense or foreign relations of a country other than the United States, as well as activity to protect against threats to the safety and security of that country.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), an intelligence activity authorized under the laws of a foreign country is an activity conducted by a foreign government agency that is authorized under a foreign legal authority comparable to Executive Order 12333 that is applicable to the agency.
(4) Disclosure to facilitate compliance with customer due diligence requirements—(i) Financial institutions. Upon receipt of a request from a financial institution subject to customer due diligence requirements under applicable law for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in facilitating compliance with such requirements, FinCEN may disclose the information to the financial institution for that use, provided that the reporting company that reported the information to FinCEN consents to such disclosure. For purposes of this paragraph, customer due diligence requirements under applicable law mean any legal requirement or prohibition designed to counter money laundering or the financing of terrorism, or to safeguard the national security of the United States, to comply with which it is reasonably necessary for a financial institution to obtain or verify beneficial ownership information of a legal entity customer.
Disclosure to facilitate compliance with customer due diligence requirements
—(i)
Financial institutions.
Upon receipt of a request from a financial institution subject to customer due diligence requirements under applicable law for information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 to be used in facilitating compliance with such requirements, FinCEN may disclose the information to the financial institution for that use, provided that the reporting company that reported the information to FinCEN consents to such disclosure. For purposes of this paragraph, customer due diligence requirements under applicable law mean any legal requirement or prohibition designed to counter money laundering or the financing of terrorism, or to safeguard the national security of the United States, to comply with which it is reasonably necessary for a financial institution to obtain or verify beneficial ownership information of a legal entity customer.
(ii) Regulatory agencies. Upon receipt of a request by a Federal functional regulator or other appropriate regulatory agency, FinCEN shall disclose to such agency any information disclosed to a financial institution pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section if the agency—
Regulatory agencies.
Upon receipt of a request by a Federal functional regulator or other appropriate regulatory agency, FinCEN shall disclose to such agency any information disclosed to a financial institution pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section if the agency—
(A) Is authorized by law to assess, supervise, enforce, or otherwise determine the compliance of such financial institution with customer due diligence requirements under applicable law;
(B) Will use the information solely for the purpose of conducting the assessment, supervision, or authorized investigation or activity described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section; and
(C) Has entered into an agreement with FinCEN providing for appropriate protocols governing the safekeeping of the information.
(5) Disclosure to officers or employees of the Department of the Treasury. Consistent with procedures and safeguards established by the Secretary—
Disclosure to officers or employees of the Department of the Treasury.
Consistent with procedures and safeguards established by the Secretary—
(i) Information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 shall be accessible for inspection or disclosure to officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury whose official duties the Secretary determines require such inspection or disclosure.
(ii) Officers and employees of the Department of the Treasury may obtain information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 for tax administration as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6103(b)(4).
(c) Use of information—(1) Use of information by authorized recipients. Except as permitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, any person who receives information disclosed by FinCEN under paragraph (b) of this section shall not further disclose such information to any other person, and shall use such information only for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was disclosed. A Federal agency that receives information pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall only use it to facilitate a response to a request for assistance pursuant to that paragraph.
Use of information
—(1)
Use of information by authorized recipients.
Except as permitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, any person who receives information disclosed by FinCEN under paragraph (b) of this section shall not further disclose such information to any other person, and shall use such information only for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was disclosed. A Federal agency that receives information pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall only use it to facilitate a response to a request for assistance pursuant to that paragraph.
(2) Disclosure of information by authorized recipients. (i) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a requesting agency who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section may disclose such information to another officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the same requesting agency for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was requested, consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i)(F) of this section, as applicable. Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the U.S. Department of the Treasury who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(5) of this section may disclose such information to another Treasury officer, employee, contractor, or agent for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was requested consistent with internal Treasury policies, procedures, orders or directives.
Disclosure of information by authorized recipients.
(i) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a requesting agency who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section may disclose such information to another officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the same requesting agency for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was requested, consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i)(F) of this section, as applicable. Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the U.S. Department of the Treasury who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(5) of this section may disclose such information to another Treasury officer, employee, contractor, or agent for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was requested consistent with internal Treasury policies, procedures, orders or directives.
(ii) Any director, officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a financial institution who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section may disclose such information to another director, officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the same financial institution for the particular purpose or activity for which such information was requested, consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(iii) Any director, officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a financial institution that receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section may disclose such information to the financial institution's Federal functional regulator, a self-regulatory organization that is registered with or designated by a Federal functional regulator pursuant to Federal statute, or other appropriate regulatory agency, provided that the Federal functional regulator, self-regulatory organization, or other appropriate regulatory agency meets the requirements identified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. A financial institution may rely on a Federal functional regulator, self-regulatory organization, or other appropriate regulatory agency's representation that it meets the requirements.
(iv) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a Federal functional regulator that receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section may disclose such information to a self-regulatory organization that is registered with or designated by the Federal functional regulator, provided that the self-regulatory organization meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(v) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a Federal agency that receives information from FinCEN pursuant to a request made under paragraph (b)(3) of this section may disclose such information to the foreign person on whose behalf the Federal agency made the request.
(vi) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a Federal agency engaged in a national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity, or any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency, may disclose information reported pursuant to § 1010.380 that it has obtained directly from FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section to a court of competent jurisdiction or parties to a civil or criminal proceeding.
(vii) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a requesting agency who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(1), (b)(4)(ii), or (b)(5) of this section may disclose such information to any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the United States Department of Justice for purposes of making a referral to the Department of Justice or for use in litigation related to the activity for which the requesting agency requested the information.
(viii) Any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of a State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agency who receives information disclosed by FinCEN pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(2) of this section may disclose such information to any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of another State, local, or Tribal agency for purposes of making a referral for possible prosecution by that agency, or for use in litigation related to the activity for which the requesting agency requested the information.
(ix) A law enforcement agency, prosecutor, judge, foreign central authority, or foreign competent authority of another country that receives information from a Federal agency pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section may disclose and use such information consistent with the international treaty, agreement, or convention under which the request was made.
(x) FinCEN may by prior written authorization, or by protocols or guidance that FinCEN may issue, authorize persons to disclose information obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section in furtherance of a purpose or activity described in that paragraph.
(d) Security and confidentiality requirements—(1) Security and confidentiality requirements for domestic agencies—(i) General requirements. To receive information under paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section, a Federal, State, local, or Tribal agency shall satisfy the following requirements:
Security and confidentiality requirements
—(1)
Security and confidentiality requirements for domestic agencies
—(i)
General requirements.
To receive information under paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section, a Federal, State, local, or Tribal agency shall satisfy the following requirements:
(A) Agreement. The agency shall enter into an agreement with FinCEN specifying the standards, procedures, and systems to be maintained by the agency, and any other requirements FinCEN may specify, to protect the security and confidentiality of such information. Agreements shall include, at a minimum, descriptions of the information to which an agency will have access, specific limitations on electronic access to that information, discretionary conditions of access, requirements and limitations related to re-disclosure, audit and inspection requirements, and security plans outlining requirements and standards for personnel security, physical security, and computer security.
Agreement.
The agency shall enter into an agreement with FinCEN specifying the standards, procedures, and systems to be maintained by the agency, and any other requirements FinCEN may specify, to protect the security and confidentiality of such information. Agreements shall include, at a minimum, descriptions of the information to which an agency will have access, specific limitations on electronic access to that information, discretionary conditions of access, requirements and limitations related to re-disclosure, audit and inspection requirements, and security plans outlining requirements and standards for personnel security, physical security, and computer security.
(B) Standards and procedures. The agency shall establish standards and procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of such information, including procedures for training agency personnel on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of such information. The head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, shall approve these standards and procedures.
Standards and procedures.
The agency shall establish standards and procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of such information, including procedures for training agency personnel on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of such information. The head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, shall approve these standards and procedures.
(C) Initial report and certification. The agency shall provide FinCEN a report that describes the standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section and that includes a certification by the head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, that the standards and procedures implement the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1).
Initial report and certification.
The agency shall provide FinCEN a report that describes the standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section and that includes a certification by the head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, that the standards and procedures implement the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1).
(D) Secure system for beneficial ownership information storage. The agency shall, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, establish and maintain a secure system in which such information shall be stored.
Secure system for beneficial ownership information storage.
The agency shall, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, establish and maintain a secure system in which such information shall be stored.
(E) Auditability. The agency shall establish and maintain a permanent, auditable system of standardized records for requests pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, including, for each request, the date of the request, the name of the individual who makes the request, the reason for the request, any disclosure of such information made by or to the requesting agency, and information or references to such information sufficient to reconstruct the reasons for the request.
Auditability.
The agency shall establish and maintain a permanent, auditable system of standardized records for requests pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, including, for each request, the date of the request, the name of the individual who makes the request, the reason for the request, any disclosure of such information made by or to the requesting agency, and information or references to such information sufficient to reconstruct the reasons for the request.
(F) Restrictions on personnel access to information. The agency shall restrict access to information obtained from FinCEN pursuant to this section to personnel—
Restrictions on personnel access to information.
The agency shall restrict access to information obtained from FinCEN pursuant to this section to personnel—
(1) Who are directly engaged in the activity for which the information was requested;
1
) Who are directly engaged in the activity for which the information was requested;
(2) Whose duties or responsibilities require such access;
2
) Whose duties or responsibilities require such access;
(3) Who have received training pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section or have obtained the information requested directly from persons who both received such training and received the information directly from FinCEN;
3
) Who have received training pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section or have obtained the information requested directly from persons who both received such training and received the information directly from FinCEN;
(4) Who use appropriate identity verification mechanisms to obtain access to the information; and
4
) Who use appropriate identity verification mechanisms to obtain access to the information; and
(5) Who are authorized by agreement between the agency and FinCEN to access the information.
5
) Who are authorized by agreement between the agency and FinCEN to access the information.
(G) Audit requirements. The agency shall:
Audit requirements.
The agency shall:
(1) Conduct an annual audit to verify that information obtained from FinCEN pursuant to this section has been accessed and used appropriately and in accordance with the standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section;
1
) Conduct an annual audit to verify that information obtained from FinCEN pursuant to this section has been accessed and used appropriately and in accordance with the standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section;
(2) Provide the results of that audit to FinCEN upon request; and
2
) Provide the results of that audit to FinCEN upon request; and
(3) Cooperate with FinCEN's annual audit of the adherence of agencies to the requirements established under this paragraph to ensure that agencies are requesting and using the information obtained under this section appropriately, including by promptly providing any information FinCEN requests in support of its annual audit.
3
) Cooperate with FinCEN's annual audit of the adherence of agencies to the requirements established under this paragraph to ensure that agencies are requesting and using the information obtained under this section appropriately, including by promptly providing any information FinCEN requests in support of its annual audit.
(H) Semi-annual certification. The head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, shall certify to FinCEN semi-annually that the agency's standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section are in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1). One of the semi-annual certifications may be included in the annual report required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(I) of this section.
Semi-annual certification.
The head of the agency, on a non-delegable basis, shall certify to FinCEN semi-annually that the agency's standards and procedures established pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section are in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1). One of the semi-annual certifications may be included in the annual report required under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(I) of this section.
(I) Annual report on procedures. The agency shall provide FinCEN a report annually that describes the standards and procedures that the agency uses to ensure the security and confidentiality of any information received pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
Annual report on procedures.
The agency shall provide FinCEN a report annually that describes the standards and procedures that the agency uses to ensure the security and confidentiality of any information received pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) Requirements for requests for disclosure. A Federal, State, local, or Tribal agency that makes a request under paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall satisfy the following requirements in connection with each request that it makes and in connection with all such information it receives.
Requirements for requests for disclosure.
A Federal, State, local, or Tribal agency that makes a request under paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall satisfy the following requirements in connection with each request that it makes and in connection with all such information it receives.
(A) Minimization. The requesting agency shall limit, to the greatest extent practicable, the scope of such information it seeks, consistent with the agency's purposes for seeking such information.
Minimization.
The requesting agency shall limit, to the greatest extent practicable, the scope of such information it seeks, consistent with the agency's purposes for seeking such information.
(B) Certifications and other requirements. (1) The head of a Federal agency that makes a request under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or their designee shall make a written certification to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
Certifications and other requirements.
(
1
) The head of a Federal agency that makes a request under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or their designee shall make a written certification to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
(i) The agency is engaged in a national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity; and
i
) The agency is engaged in a national security, intelligence, or law enforcement activity; and
(ii) The information requested is for use in furtherance of such activity, setting forth specific reasons why the requested information is relevant to the activity.
ii
) The information requested is for use in furtherance of such activity, setting forth specific reasons why the requested information is relevant to the activity.
(2) The head of a State, local, or Tribal agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall submit to FinCEN a written certification, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
2
) The head of a State, local, or Tribal agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall submit to FinCEN a written certification, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
(i) A court of competent jurisdiction has authorized the agency to seek the information in a criminal or civil investigation; and
i
) A court of competent jurisdiction has authorized the agency to seek the information in a criminal or civil investigation; and
(ii) The requested information is relevant to the criminal or civil investigation, setting forth a description of the information the court has authorized the agency to seek.
ii
) The requested information is relevant to the criminal or civil investigation, setting forth a description of the information the court has authorized the agency to seek.
(3) The head of a Federal agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section shall:
3
) The head of a Federal agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section shall:
(i) Retain for the agency's records the request for information under the applicable international treaty, agreement, or convention;
i
) Retain for the agency's records the request for information under the applicable international treaty, agreement, or convention;
(ii) Submit to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe: the name, title, agency, and country of the foreign person on whose behalf the Federal agency is making the request; the title of the international treaty, agreement, or convention under which the request is being made; and a certification that the requested information is for use in furtherance of a law enforcement investigation or prosecution, or for a national security or intelligence activity, that is authorized under the laws of the relevant foreign country.
ii
) Submit to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe: the name, title, agency, and country of the foreign person on whose behalf the Federal agency is making the request; the title of the international treaty, agreement, or convention under which the request is being made; and a certification that the requested information is for use in furtherance of a law enforcement investigation or prosecution, or for a national security or intelligence activity, that is authorized under the laws of the relevant foreign country.
(4) The head of a Federal agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall submit to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe:
4
) The head of a Federal agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall submit to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe:
(i) A written explanation of the specific purpose for which the foreign person is seeking information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, along with an accompanying certification that the information is for use in furtherance of a law enforcement investigation or prosecution, or for a national security or intelligence activity, that is authorized under the laws of the relevant foreign country and that the foreign person seeking information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) has been informed that the information may only be used only for the particular purpose or activity for which it is requested and must be handled consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
i
) A written explanation of the specific purpose for which the foreign person is seeking information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, along with an accompanying certification that the information is for use in furtherance of a law enforcement investigation or prosecution, or for a national security or intelligence activity, that is authorized under the laws of the relevant foreign country and that the foreign person seeking information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) has been informed that the information may only be used only for the particular purpose or activity for which it is requested and must be handled consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(ii) The name, title, agency, and country of the foreign person on whose behalf the Federal agency is making the request; and
ii
) The name, title, agency, and country of the foreign person on whose behalf the Federal agency is making the request; and
(iii) Any other information that FinCEN requests in order to evaluate the request.
iii
) Any other information that FinCEN requests in order to evaluate the request.
(5) The head of a Federal functional regulator or other appropriate regulatory agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall make a written certification to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
5
) The head of a Federal functional regulator or other appropriate regulatory agency, or their designee, who makes a request under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall make a written certification to FinCEN, in the form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe, that:
(i) The agency is authorized by law to assess, supervise, enforce, or otherwise determine the compliance of a relevant financial institution with customer due diligence requirements under applicable law; and
i
) The agency is authorized by law to assess, supervise, enforce, or otherwise determine the compliance of a relevant financial institution with customer due diligence requirements under applicable law; and
(ii) The agency will use the information solely for the purpose of conducting the assessment, supervision, or authorized investigation or activity described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section.
ii
) The agency will use the information solely for the purpose of conducting the assessment, supervision, or authorized investigation or activity described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section.
(2) Security and confidentiality requirements for financial institutions. To receive information under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, a financial institution shall satisfy the following requirements:
Security and confidentiality requirements for financial institutions.
To receive information under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, a financial institution shall satisfy the following requirements:
(i) Geographic restrictions on information. The financial institution shall not make information obtained from FinCEN under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section available to persons physically located in, and shall not store such information in, any of the following jurisdictions:
Geographic restrictions on information.
The financial institution shall not make information obtained from FinCEN under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section available to persons physically located in, and shall not store such information in, any of the following jurisdictions:
(A) The People's Republic of China;
(B) The Russian Federation; or
(C) A jurisdiction:
(1) That is a state sponsor of terrorism, as determined by the U.S. Department of State;
1
) That is a state sponsor of terrorism, as determined by the U.S. Department of State;
(2) That is the subject of comprehensive financial and economic sanctions imposed by the Federal Government, i.e., is a jurisdiction with a government whose property and interests in property within U.S. jurisdiction are blocked pursuant to U.S. sanctions authorities, or a jurisdiction subject to broad-based prohibitions on transactions by U.S. persons involving that jurisdiction, such as prohibitions on importing or exporting goods, services, or technology to the jurisdiction or dealing in goods or services originating from the jurisdiction, pursuant to U.S. sanctions authorities; or
2
) That is the subject of comprehensive financial and economic sanctions imposed by the Federal Government,
i.e.,
is a jurisdiction with a government whose property and interests in property within U.S. jurisdiction are blocked pursuant to U.S. sanctions authorities, or a jurisdiction subject to broad-based prohibitions on transactions by U.S. persons involving that jurisdiction, such as prohibitions on importing or exporting goods, services, or technology to the jurisdiction or dealing in goods or services originating from the jurisdiction, pursuant to U.S. sanctions authorities; or
(3) To which the Secretary has determined that allowing information obtained from FinCEN under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section to be made available would undermine the enforcement of the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section or the national security of the United States.
3
) To which the Secretary has determined that allowing information obtained from FinCEN under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section to be made available would undermine the enforcement of the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section or the national security of the United States.
(ii) Safeguards. The financial institution shall develop and implement administrative, technical, and physical safeguards reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of such information. These shall include:
Safeguards.
The financial institution shall develop and implement administrative, technical, and physical safeguards reasonably designed to protect the security, confidentiality, and integrity of such information. These shall include:
(A) Information procedures. The financial institution shall:
Information procedures.
The financial institution shall:
(1) Apply such information procedures as the institution has established to satisfy the requirements of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801 et seq.), and applicable regulations issued thereunder, with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information, modified as needed to account for any unique requirements imposed under this section; or
1
) Apply such information procedures as the institution has established to satisfy the requirements of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801
et seq.
), and applicable regulations issued thereunder, with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information, modified as needed to account for any unique requirements imposed under this section; or
(2) If the institution is not subject to section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, apply such information procedures with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information as are required, recommended, or authorized under applicable law and are at least as protective of the security and confidentiality of customer information as procedures that satisfy the standards of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
2
) If the institution is not subject to section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, apply such information procedures with regard to the protection of its customers' nonpublic personal information as are required, recommended, or authorized under applicable law and are at least as protective of the security and confidentiality of customer information as procedures that satisfy the standards of section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
(B) Notification of information demand. The financial institution shall notify FinCEN within three business days of receipt of any foreign government subpoena or legal demand under which the financial institution would have to disclose any information the financial institution has received pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
Notification of information demand.
The financial institution shall notify FinCEN within three business days of receipt of any foreign government subpoena or legal demand under which the financial institution would have to disclose any information the financial institution has received pursuant to a request under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(iii) Consent to obtain information. Before making a request for information regarding a reporting company under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the financial institution shall obtain and document the consent of the reporting company to request such information. The documentation of the reporting company's consent shall be maintained for 5 years after it is last relied upon in connection with a request for information under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
Consent to obtain information.
Before making a request for information regarding a reporting company under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the financial institution shall obtain and document the consent of the reporting company to request such information. The documentation of the reporting company's consent shall be maintained for 5 years after it is last relied upon in connection with a request for information under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(iv) Certification. For each request for information regarding a reporting company under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the financial institution shall make a certification to FinCEN in such form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe that the financial institution:
Certification.
For each request for information regarding a reporting company under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the financial institution shall make a certification to FinCEN in such form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe that the financial institution:
(A) Is requesting the information to facilitate its compliance with customer due diligence requirements under applicable law;
(B) Has obtained and documented the consent of the reporting company to request the information from FinCEN; and
(C) Has fulfilled all other requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(3) Security and confidentiality requirements for foreign recipients of information. (i) To receive information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, a foreign person on whose behalf a Federal agency made the request under that paragraph shall comply with all applicable handling, disclosure, and use requirements of the international treaty, agreement, or convention under which the request was made.
Security and confidentiality requirements for foreign recipients of information.
(i) To receive information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, a foreign person on whose behalf a Federal agency made the request under that paragraph shall comply with all applicable handling, disclosure, and use requirements of the international treaty, agreement, or convention under which the request was made.
(ii) To receive information under paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, a foreign person on whose behalf a Federal agency made the request under that paragraph shall ensure that the following requirements are satisfied:
(A) Standards and procedures. A foreign person who receives information pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall establish standards and procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of such information, including procedures for training personnel who will have access to it on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of such information.
Standards and procedures.
A foreign person who receives information pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall establish standards and procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of such information, including procedures for training personnel who will have access to it on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of such information.
(B) Secure system for beneficial ownership information storage. Such information shall be maintained in a secure system that complies with the security standards the foreign person applies to the most sensitive unclassified information it handles.
Secure system for beneficial ownership information storage.
Such information shall be maintained in a secure system that complies with the security standards the foreign person applies to the most sensitive unclassified information it handles.
(C) Minimization. To the greatest extent practicable, the scope of information sought shall be limited, consistent with the purposes for seeking such information.
Minimization.
To the greatest extent practicable, the scope of information sought shall be limited, consistent with the purposes for seeking such information.
(D) Restrictions on personnel access to information. Access to such information shall be limited to persons—
Restrictions on personnel access to information.
Access to such information shall be limited to persons—
(1) Who are directly engaged in the activity described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section for which the information was requested;
1
) Who are directly engaged in the activity described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section for which the information was requested;
(2) Whose duties or responsibilities require such access; and
2
) Whose duties or responsibilities require such access; and
(3) Who have undergone training on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of information obtained pursuant to this section.
3
) Who have undergone training on the appropriate handling and safeguarding of information obtained pursuant to this section.
(e) Administration of requests—(1) Form and manner of requests. Requests for information under paragraph (b) of this section shall be submitted to FinCEN in such form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe.
Administration of requests
—(1)
Form and manner of requests.
Requests for information under paragraph (b) of this section shall be submitted to FinCEN in such form and manner as FinCEN shall prescribe.
(2) Rejection of requests. (i) FinCEN will reject a request under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and may reject any other request made pursuant to this section, if such request is not submitted in the form and manner prescribed by FinCEN.
Rejection of requests.
(i) FinCEN will reject a request under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and may reject any other request made pursuant to this section, if such request is not submitted in the form and manner prescribed by FinCEN.
(ii) FinCEN may reject any request, or otherwise decline to disclose any information in response to a request made under this section, if FinCEN, in its sole discretion, finds that, with respect to the request:
(A) The requester has failed to meet any requirement of this section;
(B) The information is being requested for an unlawful purpose; or
(C) Other good cause exists to deny the request.
(3) Suspension of access. (i) FinCEN may permanently debar or temporarily suspend, for any period of time, any individual requester or requesting entity from receiving or accessing information under paragraph (b) of this section if FinCEN, in its sole discretion, finds that:
Suspension of access.
(i) FinCEN may permanently debar or temporarily suspend, for any period of time, any individual requester or requesting entity from receiving or accessing information under paragraph (b) of this section if FinCEN, in its sole discretion, finds that:
(A) The individual requester or requesting entity has failed to meet any requirement of this section;
(B) The individual requester or requesting entity has requested information for an unlawful purpose; or
(C) Other good cause exists for such debarment or suspension.
(ii) FinCEN may reinstate the access of any individual requester or requesting entity that has been suspended or debarred under this paragraph (e)(3) upon satisfaction of any terms or conditions that FinCEN deems appropriate.
(f) Violations—(1) Unauthorized disclosure or use. Except as authorized by this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly disclose, or knowingly use, the beneficial ownership information obtained by the person, directly or indirectly, through:
Violations
—(1)
Unauthorized disclosure or use.
Except as authorized by this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly disclose, or knowingly use, the beneficial ownership information obtained by the person, directly or indirectly, through:
(i) A report submitted to FinCEN under § 1010.380; or
(ii) A disclosure made by FinCEN pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, unauthorized use shall include accessing information without authorization, and shall include any violation of the requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section in connection with any access.
[[88 FR 88808, Dec. 22, 2023]]

§ 1010.960   Disclosure.

All reports required under this chapter and all records of such reports are specifically exempted from disclosure under section 552 of Title 5, United States Code.

§ 1010.970   Exceptions, exemptions, and reports.

(a) The Secretary, in his sole discretion, may by written order or authorization make exceptions to or grant exemptions from the requirements of this chapter. Such exceptions or exemptions may be conditional or unconditional, may apply to particular persons or to classes of persons, and may apply to particular transactions or classes of transactions. They shall, however, be applicable only as expressly Stated in the order of authorization, and they shall be revocable in the sole discretion of the Secretary.
(b) The Secretary shall have authority to further define all terms used herein.
(c)(1) The Secretary may, as an alternative to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements for casinos in §§ 1010.306(a), 1021.311, and 1021.410, grant exemptions to the casinos in any State whose regulatory system substantially meets the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this chapter.
(2) In order for a State regulatory system to qualify for an exemption on behalf of its casinos, the State must provide:
(i) That the Treasury Department be allowed to evaluate the effectiveness of the State's regulatory system by periodic oversight review of that system;
(ii) That the reports required under the State's regulatory system be submitted to the Treasury Department within 15 days of receipt by the State;
(iii) That any records required to be maintained by the casinos relevant to any matter under this chapter and to which the State has access or maintains under its regulatory system be made available to the Treasury Department within 30 days of request;
(iv) That the Treasury Department be provided with periodic status reports on the State's compliance efforts and findings;
(v) That all but minor violations of the State requirements be reported to Treasury within 15 days of discovery; and
(vi) That the State will initiate compliance examinations of specific institutions at the request of Treasury within a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days where appropriate, and will provide reports of these examinations to Treasury within 15 days of completion or periodically during the course of the examination upon the request of the Secretary. If for any reason the State were not able to conduct an investigation within a reasonable time, the State will permit Treasury to conduct the investigation.
(3) Revocation of any exemption under this subsection shall be in the sole discretion of the Secretary.

§ 1010.980   Dollars as including foreign currency.

Wherever in this chapter an amount is Stated in dollars, it shall be deemed to mean also the equivalent amount in any foreign currency.

PARTS 1011-1019 [RESERVED]


PART 1020—RULES FOR BANKS

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1020.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this Chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this Section is what applies to part 1020. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a) Account. For purposes of § 1020.220:
Account.
For purposes of § 1020.220:
(1) Account means a formal banking relationship established to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions including a deposit account, a transaction or asset account, a credit account, or other extension of credit. Account also includes a relationship established to provide a safety deposit box or other safekeeping services, or cash management, custodian, and trust services.
Account
means a formal banking relationship established to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions including a deposit account, a transaction or asset account, a credit account, or other extension of credit.
Account
also includes a relationship established to provide a safety deposit box or other safekeeping services, or cash management, custodian, and trust services.
(2) Account does not include:
Account
does not include:
(i) A product or service where a formal banking relationship is not established with a person, such as check-cashing, wire transfer, or sale of a check or money order;
(ii) An account that the bank acquires through an acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or
(iii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
(b) Customer. For the purposes of § 1020.220:
Customer.
For the purposes of § 1020.220:
(1) Customer means:
Customer
means:
(i) A person that opens a new account; and
(ii) An individual who opens a new account for:
(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity, such as a minor; or
(B) An entity that is not a legal person, such as a civic club.
(2) Customer does not include:
Customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a State bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (b)(4); or
(iii) A person that has an existing account with the bank, provided that the bank has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 57137, Sept. 16, 2020]

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1020.200   General.

Banks are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to banks.

§ 1020.210   Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks.

(a) Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks regulated by a Federal functional regulator, including banks, savings associations, and credit unions. A bank regulated by a Federal functional regulator shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if it implements and maintains an anti-money laundering program that:
Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks regulated by a Federal functional regulator, including banks, savings associations, and credit unions.
A bank regulated by a Federal functional regulator shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if it implements and maintains an anti-money laundering program that:
(1) Complies with the requirements of §§ 1010.610 and 1010.620 of this chapter;
(2) Includes, at a minimum:
(i) A system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance;
(ii) Independent testing for compliance to be conducted by bank personnel or by an outside party;
(iii) Designation of an individual or individuals responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance;
(iv) Training for appropriate personnel; and
(v) Appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(A) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(B) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph, customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230 of this chapter); and
(3) Complies with the regulation of its Federal functional regulator governing such programs.
(b) Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks lacking a Federal functional regulator including, but not limited to, private banks, non-federally insured credit unions, and certain trust companies. A bank lacking a Federal functional regulator shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if the bank establishes and maintains a written anti-money laundering program that:
Anti-money laundering program requirements for banks lacking a Federal functional regulator including, but not limited to, private banks, non-federally insured credit unions, and certain trust companies.
A bank lacking a Federal functional regulator shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if the bank establishes and maintains a written anti-money laundering program that:
(1) Complies with the requirements of §§ 1010.610 and 1010.620 of this chapter; and
(2) Includes, at a minimum:
(i) A system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and the regulations set forth in 31 CFR Chapter X;
(ii) Independent testing for compliance to be conducted by bank personnel or by an outside party;
(iii) Designation of an individual or individuals responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance;
(iv) Training for appropriate personnel; and
(v) Appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(A) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(B) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph, customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230); and
(3) Is approved by the board of directors or, if the bank does not have a board of directors, an equivalent governing body within the bank. The bank shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its designee upon request.
[[85 FR 57137, Sept. 15, 2020]]

§ 1020.220   Customer identification program requirements for banks.

(a) Customer Identification Program: minimum requirements—(1) In general. A bank required to have an anti-money laundering compliance program under the regulations implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), 12 U.S.C. 1818(s), or 12 U.S.C. 1786(q)(1) must implement a written Customer Identification Program (CIP) appropriate for the bank's size and type of business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the anti-money laundering compliance program.
Customer Identification Program: minimum requirements
—(1)
In general.
A bank required to have an anti-money laundering compliance program under the regulations implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), 12 U.S.C. 1818(s), or 12 U.S.C. 1786(q)(1) must implement a written Customer Identification Program (CIP) appropriate for the bank's size and type of business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the anti-money laundering compliance program.
(2) Identity verification procedures. The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the bank to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. These procedures must be based on the bank's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained by the bank, the various methods of opening accounts provided by the bank, the various types of identifying information available, and the bank's size, location, and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
Identity verification procedures.
The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the bank to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. These procedures must be based on the bank's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained by the bank, the various methods of opening accounts provided by the bank, the various types of identifying information available, and the bank's size, location, and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
(i) Customer information required—(A) In general. The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify the identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, the bank must obtain, at a minimum, the following information from the customer prior to opening an account:
Customer information required
—(A)
In general.
The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify the identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, the bank must obtain, at a minimum, the following information from the customer prior to opening an account:
(1) Name;
1
) Name;
(2) Date of birth, for an individual;
2
) Date of birth, for an individual;
(3) Address, which shall be:
3
) Address, which shall be:
(i) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
i
) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
(ii) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of next of kin or of another contact individual; or
ii
) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of next of kin or of another contact individual; or
(iii) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), a principal place of business, local office, or other physical location; and
iii
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), a principal place of business, local office, or other physical location; and
(4) Identification number, which shall be:
4
) Identification number, which shall be:
(i) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
i
) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
(ii) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number; passport number and country of issuance; alien identification card number; or number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
ii
) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number; passport number and country of issuance; alien identification card number; or number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(2)(
i
)(A)(
4
)(
ii
):
When opening an account for a foreign business or enterprise that does not have an identification number, the bank must request alternative government-issued documentation certifying the existence of the business or enterprise.
(B) Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number. Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening the account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number.
Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening the account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
(C) Credit card accounts. In connection with a customer who opens a credit card account, a bank may obtain the identifying information about a customer required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) by acquiring it from a third-party source prior to extending credit to the customer.
Credit card accounts.
In connection with a customer who opens a credit card account, a bank may obtain the identifying information about a customer required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) by acquiring it from a third-party source prior to extending credit to the customer.
(ii) Customer verification. The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of the customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time after the account is opened. The procedures must describe when the bank will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
Customer verification.
The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of the customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time after the account is opened. The procedures must describe when the bank will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
(A) Verification through documents. For a bank relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents that the bank will use. These documents may include:
Verification through documents.
For a bank relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents that the bank will use. These documents may include:
(1) For an individual, unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
1
) For an individual, unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
(2) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or trust instrument.
2
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or trust instrument.
(B) Verification through non-documentary methods. For a bank relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that describe the non-documentary methods the bank will use.
Verification through non-documentary methods.
For a bank relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that describe the non-documentary methods the bank will use.
(1) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; and obtaining a financial statement.
1
) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; and obtaining a financial statement.
(2) The bank's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the bank is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the bank; and where the bank is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the bank will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
2
) The bank's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the bank is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the bank; and where the bank is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the bank will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
(C) Additional verification for certain customers. The CIP must address situations where, based on the bank's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the bank will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account, including signatories, in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the bank cannot verify the customer's true identity using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
Additional verification for certain customers.
The CIP must address situations where, based on the bank's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the bank will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account, including signatories, in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the bank cannot verify the customer's true identity using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(iii) Lack of verification. The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the bank cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
Lack of verification.
The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the bank cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
(A) When the bank should not open an account;
(B) The terms under which a customer may use an account while the bank attempts to verify the customer's identity;
(C) When the bank should close an account, after attempts to verify a customer's identity have failed; and
(D) When the bank should file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
(3) Recordkeeping. The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under the procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
Recordkeeping.
The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under the procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) Required records. At a minimum, the record must include:
Required records.
At a minimum, the record must include:
(A) All identifying information about a customer obtained under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) A description of any document that was relied on under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section noting the type of document, any identification number contained in the document, the place of issuance and, if any, the date of issuance and expiration date;
(C) A description of the methods and the results of any measures undertaken to verify the identity of the customer under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section; and
(D) A description of the resolution of any substantive discrepancy discovered when verifying the identifying information obtained.
(ii) Retention of records. The bank must retain the information in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed or, in the case of credit card accounts, five years after the account is closed or becomes dormant. The bank must retain the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made.
Retention of records.
The bank must retain the information in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed or, in the case of credit card accounts, five years after the account is closed or becomes dormant. The bank must retain the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made.
(4) Comparison with government lists. The CIP must include procedures for determining whether the customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the bank to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier, if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures must also require the bank to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
Comparison with government lists.
The CIP must include procedures for determining whether the customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the bank to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier, if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures must also require the bank to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
(5)(i) Customer notice. The CIP must include procedures for providing bank customers with adequate notice that the bank is requesting information to verify their identities.
Customer notice.
The CIP must include procedures for providing bank customers with adequate notice that the bank is requesting information to verify their identities.
(ii) Adequate notice. Notice is adequate if the bank generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides the notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a bank may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications, or use any other form of written or oral notice.
Adequate notice.
Notice is adequate if the bank generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides the notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a bank may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications, or use any other form of written or oral notice.
(iii) Sample notice. If appropriate, a bank may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:
Sample notice.
If appropriate, a bank may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:
Important Information About Procedures for Opening a New Account
To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person who opens an account.
What this means for you: When you open an account, we will ask for your name, address, date of birth, and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver's license or other identifying documents.
(6) Reliance on another financial institution. The CIP may include procedures specifying when a bank will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the bank's CIP, with respect to any customer of the bank that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar formal banking or business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
Reliance on another financial institution.
The CIP may include procedures specifying when a bank will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the bank's CIP, with respect to any customer of the bank that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar formal banking or business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(i) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(ii) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and is regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(iii) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the bank that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it will perform (or its agent will perform) the specified requirements of the bank's CIP.
(b) Exemptions. The appropriate Federal functional regulator, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may, by order or regulation, exempt any bank or type of account from the requirements of this section. The Federal functional regulator and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act and with safe and sound banking, and may consider other appropriate factors. The Secretary will make these determinations for any bank or type of account that is not subject to the authority of a Federal functional regulator.
Exemptions.
The appropriate Federal functional regulator, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may, by order or regulation, exempt any bank or type of account from the requirements of this section. The Federal functional regulator and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act and with safe and sound banking, and may consider other appropriate factors. The Secretary will make these determinations for any bank or type of account that is not subject to the authority of a Federal functional regulator.
(c) Other requirements unaffected. Nothing in this section relieves a bank of its obligation to comply with any other provision in this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.
Other requirements unaffected.
Nothing in this section relieves a bank of its obligation to comply with any other provision in this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 57138, Sept. 16, 2020]]

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Banks


§ 1020.300   General.

Banks are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to Subpart C of Part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to banks.

§ 1020.310   Reports of transactions in currency.

The reports of transactions in currency requirements for banks are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.

§ 1020.311   Filing obligations.

Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for banks.

§ 1020.312   Identification required.

Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by banks.

§ 1020.313   Aggregation.

Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for banks.

§ 1020.314   Structured transactions.

Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for banks.

§ 1020.315   Transactions of exempt persons.

(a) General. No bank is required to file a report otherwise required by § 1010.311 with respect to any transaction in currency between an exempt person and such bank, or, to the extent provided in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, between such exempt person and other banks affiliated with such bank. (A limitation on the exemption described in this paragraph (a) is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.)
General.
No bank is required to file a report otherwise required by § 1010.311 with respect to any transaction in currency between an exempt person and such bank, or, to the extent provided in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, between such exempt person and other banks affiliated with such bank. (A limitation on the exemption described in this paragraph (a) is set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.)
(b) Exempt person. For purposes of this section, an exempt person is:
Exempt person.
For purposes of this section, an exempt person is:
(1) A bank, to the extent of such bank's domestic operations;
(2) A department or agency of the United States, of any State, or of any political subdivision of any State;
(3) Any entity established under the laws of the United States, of any State, or of any political subdivision of any State, or under an interstate compact between two or more States, that exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States or any such State or political subdivision;
(4) Any entity, other than a bank, whose common stock or analogous equity interests are listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange or whose common stock or analogous equity interests have been designated as a NASDAQ National Market Security listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market (except stock or interests listed under the separate “NASDAQ Capital Markets Companies” heading), provided that, for purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), a person that is a financial institution, other than a bank, is an exempt person only to the extent of its domestic operations;
(5) Any subsidiary, other than a bank, of any entity described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section (a “listed entity”) that is organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and at least 51 percent of whose common stock or analogous equity interest is owned by the listed entity, provided that, for purposes of this paragraph (b)(5), a person that is a financial institution, other than a bank, is an exempt person only to the extent of its domestic operations;
(6) To the extent of its domestic operations and only with respect to transactions conducted through its exemptible accounts, any other commercial enterprise (for purposes of this section, a “non-listed business”), other than an enterprise specified in paragraph (e)(8) of this section, that:
(i) Maintains a transaction account, as defined in paragraph (e)(9) of this section, at the bank for at least two months, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Frequently engages in transactions in currency with the bank in excess of $10,000; and
(iii) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or a State, or is registered as and eligible to do business within the United States or a State; or
(7) With respect solely to withdrawals for payroll purposes from existing exemptible accounts, any other person (for purposes of this section, a “payroll customer”) that:
(i) Maintains a transaction account, as defined in paragraph (e)(9) of this section, at the bank for at least two months, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii) Operates a firm that frequently withdraws more than $10,000 in order to pay its United States employees in currency; and
(iii) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or a State, or is registered as and eligible to do business within the United States or a State.
(c) Designation of certain exempt persons—(1) General. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a bank must designate an exempt person by filing FinCEN Form 110. Such designation must occur by the close of the 30-calendar day period beginning after the day of the first reportable transaction in currency with that person sought to be exempted from reporting under the terms of this section. The designation must be made separately by each bank that treats the customer as an exempt person, except as provided in paragraph (e)(6) of this section.
Designation of certain exempt persons
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a bank must designate an exempt person by filing FinCEN Form 110. Such designation must occur by the close of the 30-calendar day period beginning after the day of the first reportable transaction in currency with that person sought to be exempted from reporting under the terms of this section. The designation must be made separately by each bank that treats the customer as an exempt person, except as provided in paragraph (e)(6) of this section.
(2) Special rules. (i) A bank is not required to file a FinCEN Form 110 with respect to the transfer of currency to or from:
Special rules.
(i) A bank is not required to file a FinCEN Form 110 with respect to the transfer of currency to or from:
(A) Any of the twelve Federal Reserve Banks; or
(B) Any exempt person as described in paragraphs (b)(1) to (3) of this section.
(ii) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (b)(6)(i) and (b)(7)(i) of this section, and if the requirements under this section are otherwise satisfied, a bank may designate a non-listed business or a payroll customer, as described in paragraphs (b)(6) and (7) of this section, as an exempt person before the customer has maintained a transaction account at the bank for at least two months if the bank conducts and documents a risk-based assessment of the customer and forms a reasonable belief that the customer has a legitimate business purpose for conducting frequent transactions in currency.
(d) Annual review. At least once each year, a bank must review the eligibility of an exempt person described in paragraphs (b)(4) to (7) of this section to determine whether such person remains eligible for an exemption. As part of its annual review, a bank must review the application of the monitoring system required to be maintained by paragraph (h)(2) of this section to each existing account of an exempt person described in paragraphs (b)(6) or (b)(7) of this section.
Annual review.
At least once each year, a bank must review the eligibility of an exempt person described in paragraphs (b)(4) to (7) of this section to determine whether such person remains eligible for an exemption. As part of its annual review, a bank must review the application of the monitoring system required to be maintained by paragraph (h)(2) of this section to each existing account of an exempt person described in paragraphs (b)(6) or (b)(7) of this section.
(e) Operating rules—(1) General rule. Subject to the specific rules of this section, a bank must take such steps to assure itself that a person is an exempt person (within the meaning of the applicable provision of paragraph (b) of this section), to document the basis for its conclusions, and document its compliance, with the terms of this section, that a reasonable and prudent bank would take and document to protect itself from loan or other fraud or loss based on misidentification of a person's status, and in the case of the monitoring system requirement set forth in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, such steps that a reasonable and prudent bank would take and document to identify suspicious transactions as required by paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
Operating rules
—(1)
General rule.
Subject to the specific rules of this section, a bank must take such steps to assure itself that a person is an exempt person (within the meaning of the applicable provision of paragraph (b) of this section), to document the basis for its conclusions, and document its compliance, with the terms of this section, that a reasonable and prudent bank would take and document to protect itself from loan or other fraud or loss based on misidentification of a person's status, and in the case of the monitoring system requirement set forth in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, such steps that a reasonable and prudent bank would take and document to identify suspicious transactions as required by paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2) Governmental departments and agencies. A bank may treat a person as a governmental department, agency, or entity if the name of such person reasonably indicates that it is described in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, or if such person is known generally in the community to be a State, the District of Columbia, a tribal government, a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or a political subdivision or a wholly-owned agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing. An entity generally exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision, for purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, only if its authorities include one or more of the powers to tax, to exercise the authority of eminent domain, or to exercise police powers with respect to matters within its jurisdiction. Examples of entities that exercise governmental authority include, but are not limited to, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Governmental departments and agencies.
A bank may treat a person as a governmental department, agency, or entity if the name of such person reasonably indicates that it is described in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, or if such person is known generally in the community to be a State, the District of Columbia, a tribal government, a Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, or a political subdivision or a wholly-owned agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing. An entity generally exercises governmental authority on behalf of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision, for purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, only if its authorities include one or more of the powers to tax, to exercise the authority of eminent domain, or to exercise police powers with respect to matters within its jurisdiction. Examples of entities that exercise governmental authority include, but are not limited to, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
(3) Stock exchange listings. In determining whether a person is described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a bank may rely on any New York, American, or NASDAQ Stock Market listing published in a newspaper of general circulation, on any commonly accepted or published stock symbol guide, on any information contained in the Securities and Exchange Commission “EDGAR” System, or on any information contained on an Internet site or sites maintained by the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, or the NASDAQ.
Stock exchange listings.
In determining whether a person is described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a bank may rely on any New York, American, or NASDAQ Stock Market listing published in a newspaper of general circulation, on any commonly accepted or published stock symbol guide, on any information contained in the Securities and Exchange Commission “EDGAR” System, or on any information contained on an Internet site or sites maintained by the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, or the NASDAQ.
(4) Listed company subsidiaries. In determining whether a person is described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, a bank may rely upon:
Listed company subsidiaries.
In determining whether a person is described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, a bank may rely upon:
(i) Any reasonably authenticated corporate officer's certificate;
(ii) Any reasonably authenticated photocopy of Internal Revenue Service Form 851 (Affiliation Schedule) or the equivalent thereof for the appropriate tax year; or
(iii) A person's Annual Report or Form 10-K, as filed in each case with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(5) Aggregated accounts. In determining the qualification of a customer as a non-listed business or a payroll customer, a bank may treat all exemptible accounts of the customer as a single account. If a bank elects to treat all exemptible accounts of a customer as a single account, the bank must continue to treat such accounts consistently as a single account for purposes of determining the qualification of the customer as a non-listed business or payroll customer.
Aggregated accounts.
In determining the qualification of a customer as a non-listed business or a payroll customer, a bank may treat all exemptible accounts of the customer as a single account. If a bank elects to treat all exemptible accounts of a customer as a single account, the bank must continue to treat such accounts consistently as a single account for purposes of determining the qualification of the customer as a non-listed business or payroll customer.
(6) Affiliated banks. The designation required by paragraph (c) of this section may be made by a parent bank holding company or one of its bank subsidiaries on behalf of all bank subsidiaries of the holding company, so long as the designation lists each bank subsidiary to which the designation shall apply.
Affiliated banks.
The designation required by paragraph (c) of this section may be made by a parent bank holding company or one of its bank subsidiaries on behalf of all bank subsidiaries of the holding company, so long as the designation lists each bank subsidiary to which the designation shall apply.
(7) Sole proprietorships. A sole proprietorship may be treated as a non-listed business if it otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section, as applicable. In addition, a sole proprietorship may be treated as a payroll customer if it otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(7) of this section, as applicable.
Sole proprietorships.
A sole proprietorship may be treated as a non-listed business if it otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section, as applicable. In addition, a sole proprietorship may be treated as a payroll customer if it otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(7) of this section, as applicable.
(8) Ineligible businesses. A business engaged primarily in one or more of the following activities may not be treated as a non-listed business for purposes of this section: Serving as financial institutions or agents of financial institutions of any type; purchase or sale to customers of motor vehicles of any kind, vessels, aircraft, farm equipment or mobile homes; the practice of law, accountancy, or medicine; auctioning of goods; chartering or operation of ships, buses, or aircraft; gaming of any kind (other than licensed parimutuel betting at race tracks); investment advisory services or investment banking services; real estate brokerage; pawn brokerage; title insurance and real estate closing; trade union activities; and any other activities that may be specified by FinCEN. A business that engages in multiple business activities may be treated as a non-listed business so long as no more than 50% of its gross revenues are derived from one or more of the ineligible business activities listed in this paragraph (e)(8).
Ineligible businesses.
A business engaged primarily in one or more of the following activities may not be treated as a non-listed business for purposes of this section: Serving as financial institutions or agents of financial institutions of any type; purchase or sale to customers of motor vehicles of any kind, vessels, aircraft, farm equipment or mobile homes; the practice of law, accountancy, or medicine; auctioning of goods; chartering or operation of ships, buses, or aircraft; gaming of any kind (other than licensed parimutuel betting at race tracks); investment advisory services or investment banking services; real estate brokerage; pawn brokerage; title insurance and real estate closing; trade union activities; and any other activities that may be specified by FinCEN. A business that engages in multiple business activities may be treated as a non-listed business so long as no more than 50% of its gross revenues are derived from one or more of the ineligible business activities listed in this paragraph (e)(8).
(9) Exemptible accounts of a non-listed business or payroll customer. The exemptible accounts of a non-listed business or payroll customer include transaction accounts and money market deposit accounts. However, money market deposit accounts maintained other than in connection with a commercial enterprise are not exemptible accounts. A transaction account, for purposes of this section, is any account described in section 19(b)(1)(C) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C), and its implementing regulations (12 CFR part 204). A money market deposit account, for purposes of this section, is any interest-bearing account that is described as a money market deposit account in 12 CFR 204.2(d)(2).
Exemptible accounts of a non-listed business or payroll customer.
The exemptible accounts of a non-listed business or payroll customer include transaction accounts and money market deposit accounts. However, money market deposit accounts maintained other than in connection with a commercial enterprise are not exemptible accounts. A transaction account, for purposes of this section, is any account described in section 19(b)(1)(C) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C), and its implementing regulations (12 CFR part 204). A money market deposit account, for purposes of this section, is any interest-bearing account that is described as a money market deposit account in 12 CFR 204.2(d)(2).
(10) Documentation. The records maintained by a bank to document its compliance with and administration of the rules of this section shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of § 1010.430.
Documentation.
The records maintained by a bank to document its compliance with and administration of the rules of this section shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of § 1010.430.
(f) Limitation on exemption. A transaction carried out by an exempt person as an agent for another person who is the beneficial owner of the funds that are the subject of a transaction in currency is not subject to the exemption from reporting contained in paragraph (a) of this section.
Limitation on exemption.
A transaction carried out by an exempt person as an agent for another person who is the beneficial owner of the funds that are the subject of a transaction in currency is not subject to the exemption from reporting contained in paragraph (a) of this section.
(g) Limitation on liability. (1) No bank shall be subject to penalty under this chapter for failure to file a report required by § 1010.311 with respect to a transaction in currency by an exempt person with respect to which the requirements of this section have been satisfied, unless the bank:
Limitation on liability.
(1) No bank shall be subject to penalty under this chapter for failure to file a report required by § 1010.311 with respect to a transaction in currency by an exempt person with respect to which the requirements of this section have been satisfied, unless the bank:
(i) Knowingly files false or incomplete information with respect to the transaction or the customer engaging in the transaction; or
(ii) Has reason to believe that the customer does not meet the criteria established by this section for treatment of the transactor as an exempt person or that the transaction is not a transaction of the exempt person.
(2) Subject to the specific terms of this section, and absent any specific knowledge of information indicating that a customer no longer meets the requirements of an exempt person, a bank satisfies the requirements of this section to the extent it continues to treat that customer as an exempt person until the completion of that customer's next required periodic review, which as required by paragraph (d) of this section for an exempt person described in paragraph (b)(4) to (7) of this section, shall occur no less than once each year.
(3) A bank that files a report with respect to a currency transaction by an exempt person rather than treating such person as exempt shall remain subject, with respect to each such report, to the rules for filing reports, and the penalties for filing false or incomplete reports that are applicable to reporting of transactions in currency by persons other than exempt persons.
(h) Obligations to file suspicious activity reports and maintain system for monitoring transactions in currency. (1) Nothing in this section relieves a bank of the obligation, or reduces in any way such bank's obligation, to file a report required by § 1020.320 with respect to any transaction, including any transaction in currency that a bank knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect is a transaction or attempted transaction that is described in § 1020.320(a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii), or relieves a bank of any reporting or recordkeeping obligation imposed by this chapter (except the obligation to report transactions in currency pursuant to this chapter to the extent provided in this section). Thus, for example, a sharp increase from one year to the next in the gross total of currency transactions made by an exempt customer, or similarly anomalous transactions trends or patterns, may trigger the obligation of a bank under § 1020.320.
Obligations to file suspicious activity reports and maintain system for monitoring transactions in currency.
(1) Nothing in this section relieves a bank of the obligation, or reduces in any way such bank's obligation, to file a report required by § 1020.320 with respect to any transaction, including any transaction in currency that a bank knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect is a transaction or attempted transaction that is described in § 1020.320(a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii), or relieves a bank of any reporting or recordkeeping obligation imposed by this chapter (except the obligation to report transactions in currency pursuant to this chapter to the extent provided in this section). Thus, for example, a sharp increase from one year to the next in the gross total of currency transactions made by an exempt customer, or similarly anomalous transactions trends or patterns, may trigger the obligation of a bank under § 1020.320.
(2) Consistent with its annual review obligations under paragraph (d) of this section, a bank shall establish and maintain a monitoring system that is reasonably designed to detect, for each account of a non-listed business or payroll customer, those transactions in currency involving such account that would require a bank to file a suspicious transaction report. The statement in the preceding sentence with respect to accounts of non-listed business and payroll customers does not limit the obligation of banks generally to take the steps necessary to satisfy the terms of paragraph (h)(1) of this section and § 1020.320 with respect to all exempt persons.
(i) Revocation. Without any action on the part of the Department of the Treasury and subject to the limitation on liability contained in paragraph (g)(2) of this section:
Revocation.
Without any action on the part of the Department of the Treasury and subject to the limitation on liability contained in paragraph (g)(2) of this section:
(1) The status of an entity as an exempt person under paragraph (b)(4) of this section ceases once such entity ceases to be listed on the applicable stock exchange; and
(2) The status of a subsidiary as an exempt person under paragraph (b)(5) of this section ceases once such subsidiary ceases to have at least 51 per cent of its common stock or analogous equity interest owned by a listed entity.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1506-0012)
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 33640, June 7, 2012]]

§ 1020.320   Reports by banks of suspicious transactions.

(a) General. (1) Every bank shall file with the Treasury Department, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A bank may also file with the Treasury Department by using the Suspicious Activity Report specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
General.
(1) Every bank shall file with the Treasury Department, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A bank may also file with the Treasury Department by using the Suspicious Activity Report specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through the bank, it involves or aggregates at least $5,000 in funds or other assets, and the bank knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that:
(i) The transaction involves funds derived from illegal activities or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activities (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) The transaction is designed to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(iii) The transaction has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the bank knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction.
(b) Filing procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Where to file. The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3) When to file. A bank is required to file a SAR no later than 30 calendar days after the date of initial detection by the bank of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR. If no suspect was identified on the date of the detection of the incident requiring the filing, a bank may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect. In no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of initial detection of a reportable transaction. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as, for example, ongoing money laundering schemes, the bank shall immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
When to file.
A bank is required to file a SAR no later than 30 calendar days after the date of initial detection by the bank of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR. If no suspect was identified on the date of the detection of the incident requiring the filing, a bank may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect. In no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of initial detection of a reportable transaction. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as, for example, ongoing money laundering schemes, the bank shall immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(c) Exceptions. A bank is not required to file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities, or for lost, missing, counterfeit, or stolen securities with respect to which the bank files a report pursuant to the reporting requirements of 17 CFR 240.17f-1.
Exceptions.
A bank is not required to file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities, or for lost, missing, counterfeit, or stolen securities with respect to which the bank files a report pursuant to the reporting requirements of 17 CFR 240.17f-1.
(d) Retention of records. A bank shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified, and maintained by the bank as such, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A bank shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the bank for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the bank to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
Retention of records.
A bank shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified, and maintained by the bank as such, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A bank shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the bank for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the bank to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(e) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by banks—(i) General rule. No bank, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any bank, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by banks
—(i)
General rule.
No bank, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any bank, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of Construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a bank, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a bank, of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the bank for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the bank to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the bank complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the bank for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the bank to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the bank complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
(i) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
i
) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(ii) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by a bank, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the bank, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the bank's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(f) Limitation on liability. A bank, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
A bank, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any bank, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g) Compliance. Banks shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter. Such failure may also violate provisions of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Compliance.
Banks shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter. Such failure may also violate provisions of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10517, Feb. 25, 2011]]

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Banks


§ 1020.400   General.

Banks are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to banks.

§ 1020.410   Records to be made and retained by banks.

(a) Each agent, agency, branch, or office located within the United States of a bank is subject to the requirements of this paragraph (a) with respect to a funds transfer in the amount of $3,000 or more, and is required to retain either the original or a copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) Recordkeeping requirements. (i) For each payment order that it accepts as an originator's bank, a bank shall obtain and retain either the original or a copy, or electronic record of the following information relating to the payment order:
Recordkeeping requirements.
(i) For each payment order that it accepts as an originator's bank, a bank shall obtain and retain either the original or a copy, or electronic record of the following information relating to the payment order:
(A) The name and address of the originator;
(B) The amount of the payment order;
(C) The execution date of the payment order;
(D) Any payment instructions received from the originator with the payment order;
(E) The identity of the beneficiary's bank; and
(F) As many of the following items as are received with the payment order: 
1
1
1 For funds transfers effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system, only one of the items is required to be retained, if received with the payment order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
1
For funds transfers effected through the Federal Reserve's Fedwire funds transfer system, only one of the items is required to be retained, if received with the payment order, until such time as the bank that sends the order to the Federal Reserve Bank completes its conversion to the expanded Fedwire message format.
(1) The name and address of the beneficiary;
1
) The name and address of the beneficiary;
(2) The account number of the beneficiary; and
2
) The account number of the beneficiary; and
(3) Any other specific identifier of the beneficiary.
3
) Any other specific identifier of the beneficiary.
(ii) For each payment order that it accepts as an intermediary bank, a bank shall retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the payment order.
(iii) For each payment order that it accepts as a beneficiary's bank, a bank shall retain either the original or a microfilm, other copy, or electronic record of the payment order.
(2) Originators other than established customers. In the case of a payment order from an originator that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section:
Originators other than established customers.
In the case of a payment order from an originator that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section:
(i) If the payment order is made in person, prior to acceptance the originator's bank shall verify the identity of the person placing the payment order. If it accepts the payment order, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address, the type of identification reviewed, the number of the identification document (e.g., driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the originator's bank has knowledge that the person placing the payment order is not the originator, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the originator's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
e.g.,
driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the originator's bank has knowledge that the person placing the payment order is not the originator, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the originator's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(ii) If the payment order accepted by the originator's bank is not made in person, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of name and address of the person placing the payment order, as well as the person's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof, and a copy or record of the method of payment (e.g., check or credit card transaction) for the funds transfer. If the originator's bank has knowledge that the person placing the payment order is not the originator, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the originator's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof, and a copy or record of the method of payment (
e.g.,
check or credit card transaction) for the funds transfer. If the originator's bank has knowledge that the person placing the payment order is not the originator, the originator's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the originator's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person placing the order, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(3) Beneficiaries other than established customers. For each payment order that it accepts as a beneficiary's bank for a beneficiary that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section:
Beneficiaries other than established customers.
For each payment order that it accepts as a beneficiary's bank for a beneficiary that is not an established customer, in addition to obtaining and retaining the information required in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section:
(i) If the proceeds are delivered in person to the beneficiary or its representative or agent, the beneficiary's bank shall verify the identity of the person receiving the proceeds and shall obtain and retain a record of the name and address, the type of identification reviewed, and the number of the identification document (e.g., driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the beneficiary's bank has knowledge that the person receiving the proceeds is not the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the beneficiary's name and address, as well as the beneficiary's taxpayer identification number (e.g., social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person receiving the proceeds, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
e.g.,
driver's license), as well as a record of the person's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof. If the beneficiary's bank has knowledge that the person receiving the proceeds is not the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank shall obtain and retain a record of the beneficiary's name and address, as well as the beneficiary's taxpayer identification number (
e.g.,
social security or employer identification number) or, if none, alien identification number or passport number and country of issuance, if known by the person receiving the proceeds, or a notation in the record of the lack thereof.
(ii) If the proceeds are delivered other than in person, the beneficiary's bank shall retain a copy of the check or other instrument used to effect payment, or the information contained thereon, as well as the name and address of the person to which it was sent.
(4) Retrievability. The information that an originator's bank must retain under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(2) of this section shall be retrievable by the originator's bank by reference to the name of the originator. If the originator is an established customer of the originator's bank and has an account used for funds transfers, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. The information that a beneficiary's bank must retain under paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (a)(3) of this section shall be retrievable by the beneficiary's bank by reference to the name of the beneficiary. If the beneficiary is an established customer of the beneficiary's bank and has an account used for funds transfers, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. This information need not be retained in any particular manner, so long as the bank is able to retrieve the information required by this paragraph, either by accessing funds transfer records directly or through reference to some other record maintained by the bank.
Retrievability.
The information that an originator's bank must retain under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(2) of this section shall be retrievable by the originator's bank by reference to the name of the originator. If the originator is an established customer of the originator's bank and has an account used for funds transfers, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. The information that a beneficiary's bank must retain under paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (a)(3) of this section shall be retrievable by the beneficiary's bank by reference to the name of the beneficiary. If the beneficiary is an established customer of the beneficiary's bank and has an account used for funds transfers, then the information also shall be retrievable by account number. This information need not be retained in any particular manner, so long as the bank is able to retrieve the information required by this paragraph, either by accessing funds transfer records directly or through reference to some other record maintained by the bank.
(5) Verification. Where verification is required under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, a bank shall verify a person's identity by examination of a document (other than a bank signature card), preferably one that contains the person's name, address, and photograph, that is normally acceptable by financial institutions as a means of identification when cashing checks for persons other than established customers. Verification of the identity of an individual who indicates that he or she is an alien or is not a resident of the United States may be made by passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence (e.g., a foreign driver's license with indication of home address).
Verification.
Where verification is required under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, a bank shall verify a person's identity by examination of a document (other than a bank signature card), preferably one that contains the person's name, address, and photograph, that is normally acceptable by financial institutions as a means of identification when cashing checks for persons other than established customers. Verification of the identity of an individual who indicates that he or she is an alien or is not a resident of the United States may be made by passport, alien identification card, or other official document evidencing nationality or residence (
e.g.,
a foreign driver's license with indication of home address).
(6) Exceptions. The following funds transfers are not subject to the requirements of this section:
Exceptions.
The following funds transfers are not subject to the requirements of this section:
(i) Funds transfers where the originator and beneficiary are any of the following:
(A) A bank;
(B) A wholly owned domestic subsidiary of a bank chartered in the United States;
(C) A broker or dealer in securities;
(D) A wholly owned domestic subsidiary of a broker or dealer in securities;
(E) A futures commission merchant or an introducing broker in commodities;
(F) A wholly owned domestic subsidiary of a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker in commodities;
(G) The United States;
(H) A state or local government;
(I) A Federal, State or local government agency or instrumentality; or
(J) A mutual fund; and
(ii) Funds transfers where both the originator and the beneficiary are the same person and the originator's bank and the beneficiary's bank are the same bank.
(b)(1) With respect to each certificate of deposit sold or redeemed after May 31, 1978, and before October 1, 2003, or each deposit or share account opened with a bank after June 30, 1972, and before October 1, 2003, a bank shall, within 30 days from the date such a transaction occurs or an account is opened, secure and maintain a record of the taxpayer identification number of the customer involved; or where the account or certificate is in the names of two or more persons, the bank shall secure the taxpayer identification number of a person having a financial interest in the certificate or account. In the event that a bank has been unable to secure, within the 30-day period specified, the required identification, it shall nevertheless not be deemed to be in violation of this section if it has made a reasonable effort to secure such identification, and it maintains a list containing the names, addresses, and account numbers of those persons from whom it has been unable to secure such identification, and makes the names, addresses, and account numbers of those persons available to the Secretary as directed by him. A bank acting as an agent for another person in the purchase or redemption of a certificate of deposit issued by another bank is responsible for obtaining and recording the required taxpayer identification, as well as for maintaining the records referred to in paragraphs (c)(11) and (12) of this section. The issuing bank can satisfy the recordkeeping requirement by recording the name and address of the agent together with a description of the instrument and the date of the transaction. Where a person is a non-resident alien, the bank shall also record the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity.
(2) The 30-day period provided for in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be extended where the person opening the account has applied for a taxpayer identification or social security number on Form SS-4 or SS-5, until such time as the person maintaining the account has had a reasonable opportunity to secure such number and furnish it to the bank.
(3) A taxpayer identification number required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section need not be secured for accounts or transactions with the following:
(i) Agencies and instrumentalities of Federal, State, local or foreign governments;
(ii) Judges, public officials, or clerks of courts of record as custodians of funds in controversy or under the control of the court;
(iii) Aliens who are ambassadors, ministers, career diplomatic or consular officers, or naval, military or other attachés of foreign embassies and legations, and for the members of their immediate families;
(iv) Aliens who are accredited representatives of international organizations which are entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions and immunities as an international organization under the International Organization Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288), and the members of their immediate families;
(v) Aliens temporarily residing in the United States for a period not to exceed 180 days;
(vi) Aliens not engaged in a trade or business in the United States who are attending a recognized college or university or any training program, supervised or conducted by any agency of the Federal Government;
(vii) Unincorporated subordinate units of a tax exempt central organization which are covered by a group exemption letter,
(viii) A person under 18 years of age with respect to an account opened as a part of a school thrift savings program, provided the annual interest is less than $10;
(ix) A person opening a Christmas club, vacation club and similar installment savings programs, provided the annual interest is less than $10; and
(x) Non-resident aliens who are not engaged in a trade or business in the United States.
(4) In instances described in paragraphs (b)(3)(viii) and (ix) of this section, the bank shall, within 15 days following the end of any calendar year in which the interest accrued in that year is $10 or more use its best effort to secure and maintain the appropriate taxpayer identification number or application form therefor.
(5) The rules and regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 shall determine what constitutes a taxpayer identification number and whose number shall be obtained in the case of an account maintained by one or more persons.
(c) Each bank shall, in addition, retain either the original or a copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) Each document granting signature authority over each deposit or share account, including any notations, if such are normally made, of specific identifying information verifying the identity of the signer (such as a driver's license number or credit card number);
(2) Each statement, ledger card or other record on each deposit or share account, showing each transaction in, or with respect to, that account;
(3) Each check, clean draft, or money order drawn on the bank or issued and payable by it, except those drawn for $100 or less or those drawn on accounts which can be expected to have drawn on them an average of at least 100 checks per month over the calendar year or on each occasion on which such checks are issued, and which are:
(i) Dividend checks,
(ii) Payroll checks,
(iii) Employee benefit checks,
(iv) Insurance claim checks,
(v) Medical benefit checks,
(vi) Checks drawn on government agency accounts,
(vii) Checks drawn by brokers or dealers in securities,
(viii) Checks drawn on fiduciary accounts,
(ix) Checks drawn on other financial institutions, or
(x) Pension or annuity checks;
(4) Each item in excess of $100 (other than bank charges or periodic charges made pursuant to agreement with the customer), comprising a debit to a customer's deposit or share account, not required to be kept, and not specifically exempted, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section;
(5) Each item, including checks, drafts, or transfers of credit, of more than $10,000 remitted or transferred to a person, account or place outside the United States;
(6) A record of each remittance or transfer of funds, or of currency, other monetary instruments, checks, investment securities, or credit, of more than $10,000 to a person, account or place outside the United States;
(7) Each check or draft in an amount in excess of $10,000 drawn on or issued by a foreign bank which the domestic bank has paid or presented to a nonbank drawee for payment;
(8) Each item, including checks, drafts or transfers of credit, of more than $10,000 received directly and not through a domestic financial institution, by letter, cable or any other means, from a bank, broker or dealer in foreign exchange outside the United States;
(9) A record of each receipt of currency, other monetary instruments, investment securities or checks, and of each transfer of funds or credit, of more than $10,000 received on any one occasion directly and not through a domestic financial institution, from a bank, broker or dealer in foreign exchange outside the United States; and
(10) Records prepared or received by a bank in the ordinary course of business, which would be needed to reconstruct a transaction account and to trace a check in excess of $100 deposited in such account through its domestic processing system or to supply a description of a deposited check in excess of $100. This subparagraph shall be applicable only with respect to demand deposits.
(11) A record containing the name, address, and taxpayer identification number as determined under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, if available, of the purchaser of each certificate of deposit, as well as a description of the instrument, a notation of the method of payment, and the date of the transaction.
(12) A record containing the name, address and taxpayer identification number as determined under section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, if available, of any person presenting a certificate of deposit for payment, as well as a description of the instrument and the date of the transaction.
(13) Each deposit slip or credit ticket reflecting a transaction in excess of $100 or the equivalent record for direct deposit or other wire transfer deposit transactions. The slip or ticket shall record the amount of any currency involved.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]]

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1020.500   General.

Banks are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to banks.

§ 1020.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for banks.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1020.530   [Reserved]


§ 1020.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures


§ 1020.600   General.

Banks are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Banks should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to banks.

§ 1020.610   Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1020.620   Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.

(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1020.630   Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.

(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1020.640   [Reserved]


§ 1020.670   Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

(a) Refer to § 1010.670 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

PART 1021—RULES FOR CASINOS AND CARD CLUBS

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1021.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1021. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a) Business year means the annual accounting period, such as a calendar or fiscal year, by which a casino maintains its books and records for purposes of subtitle A of title 26 of the United States Code.
Business year
means the annual accounting period, such as a calendar or fiscal year, by which a casino maintains its books and records for purposes of subtitle A of title 26 of the United States Code.
(b) Casino account number means any and all numbers by which a casino identifies a customer.
Casino account number
means any and all numbers by which a casino identifies a customer.
(c) Customer includes every person which is involved in a transaction to which this chapter applies with a casino, whether or not that person participates, or intends to participate, in the gaming activities offered by that casino.
Customer
includes every person which is involved in a transaction to which this chapter applies with a casino, whether or not that person participates, or intends to participate, in the gaming activities offered by that casino.
(d) Gaming day means the normal business day of a casino. For a casino that offers 24 hour gaming, the term means that 24 hour period by which the casino keeps its books and records for business, accounting, and tax purposes. For purposes of the regulations contained in this chapter, each casino may have only one gaming day, common to all of its divisions.
Gaming day
means the normal business day of a casino. For a casino that offers 24 hour gaming, the term means that 24 hour period by which the casino keeps its books and records for business, accounting, and tax purposes. For purposes of the regulations contained in this chapter, each casino may have only one gaming day, common to all of its divisions.
(e) Machine-readable means capable of being read by an automated data processing system.
Machine-readable
means capable of being read by an automated data processing system.

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1021.200   General.

Casinos and card clubs are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.

§ 1021.210   Anti-money laundering program requirements for casinos.

(a) Requirements for casinos. A casino shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if it implements and maintains a compliance program described in paragraph (b) of this section.
Requirements for casinos.
A casino shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if it implements and maintains a compliance program described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Compliance programs. (1) Each casino shall develop and implement a written program reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the requirements set forth in 31 U.S.C. chapter 53, subchapter II and the regulations contained in this chapter.
Compliance programs.
(1) Each casino shall develop and implement a written program reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the requirements set forth in 31 U.S.C. chapter 53, subchapter II and the regulations contained in this chapter.
(2) At a minimum, each compliance program shall provide for:
(i) A system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance;
(ii) Internal and/or external independent testing for compliance. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the money laundering and terrorist financing risks posed by the products and services provided by the casino;
(iii) Training of casino personnel, including training in the identification of unusual or suspicious transactions, to the extent that the reporting of such transactions is required by this chapter, by other applicable law or regulation, or by the casino's own administrative and compliance policies;
(iv) An individual or individuals to assure day-to-day compliance;
(v) Procedures for using all available information to determine:
(A) When required by this chapter, the name, address, social security number, and other information, and verification of the same, of a person;
(B) The occurrence of any transactions or patterns of transactions required to be reported pursuant to § 1021.320;
(C) Whether any record as described in subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter or subpart D of this part 1021 must be made and retained; and
(vi) For casinos that have automated data processing systems, the use of automated programs to aid in assuring compliance.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Casinos and Card Clubs


§ 1021.300   General.

Casinos and card clubs are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.

§ 1021.310   Reports of transactions in currency.

The reports of transactions in currency requirements for casinos are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.

§ 1021.311   Filing obligations.

Each casino shall file a report of each transaction in currency, involving either cash in or cash out, of more than $10,000.
(a) Transactions in currency involving cash in include, but are not limited to:
(1) Purchases of chips, tokens, and other gaming instruments;
(2) Front money deposits;
(3) Safekeeping deposits;
(4) Payments on any form of credit, including markers and counter checks;
(5) Bets of currency, including money plays;
(6) Currency received by a casino for transmittal of funds through wire transfer for a customer;
(7) Purchases of a casino's check;
(8) Exchanges of currency for currency, including foreign currency; and
(9) Bills inserted into electronic gaming devices.
(b) Transactions in currency involving cash out include, but are not limited to:
(1) Redemptions of chips, tokens, tickets, and other gaming instruments;
(2) Front money withdrawals;
(3) Safekeeping withdrawals;
(4) Advances on any form of credit, including markers and counter checks;
(5) Payments on bets;
(6) Payments by a casino to a customer based on receipt of funds through wire transfers;
(7) Cashing of checks or other negotiable instruments;
(8) Exchanges of currency for currency, including foreign currency;
(9) Travel and complimentary expenses and gaming incentives; and
(10) Payment for tournament, contests, and other promotions.
(c) Other provisions of this chapter notwithstanding, casinos are exempted from the reporting obligations found in this section and § 1021.313 for the following transactions in currency or currency transactions:
(1) Transactions between a casino and a dealer in foreign exchange, or between a casino and a check casher, as those terms are defined in § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter, so long as such transactions are conducted pursuant to a contractual or other arrangement with a casino covering the financial services in paragraphs (a)(8), (b)(7), and (b)(8) of this section;
(2) Cash out transactions to the extent the currency is won in a money play and is the same currency the customer wagered in the money play, or cash in transactions to the extent the currency is the same currency the customer previously wagered in a money play on the same table game without leaving the table;
(3) Bills inserted into electronic gaming devices in multiple transactions (unless a casino has knowledge pursuant to § 1021.313 in which case this exemption would not apply); and
(4) Jackpots from slot machines or video lottery terminals.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43597, July 21, 2011]]

§ 1021.312   Identification required.

Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transaction in currency filed by casinos and card clubs.

§ 1021.313   Aggregation.

In the case of a casino, multiple currency transactions shall be treated as a single transaction if the casino has knowledge that they are by or on behalf of any person and result in either cash in or cash out totaling more than $10,000 during any gaming day. For purposes of this section, a casino shall be deemed to have the knowledge described in the preceding sentence, if: Any sole proprietor, partner, officer, director, or employee of the casino, acting within the scope of his or her employment, has knowledge that such multiple currency transactions have occurred, including knowledge from examining the books, records, logs, information retained on magnetic disk, tape or other machine-readable media, or in any manual system, and similar documents and information, which the casino maintains pursuant to any law or regulation or within the ordinary course of its business, and which contain information that such multiple currency transactions have occurred.

§ 1021.314   Structured transactions.

Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for casinos.

§ 1021.315   Exemptions.

Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for casinos.

§ 1021.320   Reports by casinos of suspicious transactions.

(a) General. (1) Every casino shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A casino may also file with FinCEN, by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
General.
(1) Every casino shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A casino may also file with FinCEN, by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a casino, and involves or aggregates at least $5,000 in funds or other assets, and the casino knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the casino knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the casino to facilitate criminal activity.
(b) Filing procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Where to file. The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3) When to file. A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the casino of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a casino may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as ongoing money laundering schemes, the casino shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Casinos wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the casino of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a casino may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as ongoing money laundering schemes, the casino shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Casinos wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c) Exceptions. A casino is not required to file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities.
Exceptions.
A casino is not required to file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities.
(d) Retention of records. A casino shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the casino, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A casino shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the casino for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any tribal regulatory authority administering a tribal law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the tribal regulatory authority to ensure that the casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
Retention of records.
A casino shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the casino, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A casino shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the casino for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any tribal regulatory authority administering a tribal law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the tribal regulatory authority to ensure that the casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(e) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by casinos—(i) General rule. No casino, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any casino, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by casinos
—(i)
General rule.
No casino, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any casino, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of Construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a casino, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a casino, of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the casino for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any tribal regulatory authority administering a tribal law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the tribal regulatory authority to ensure that casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the casino for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any tribal regulatory authority administering a tribal law that requires the casino to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the tribal regulatory authority to ensure that casino complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
(B) The sharing by a casino, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the casino, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the casino's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA). For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA). For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(f) Limitation on liability. A casino, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
A casino, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any casino, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g) Compliance. Casinos shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
Casinos shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(h) Applicability date. This section applies to transactions occurring after March 25, 2003.
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after March 25, 2003.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10517, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]]

§ 1021.330   Exceptions to the reporting requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5331.

(a) Receipt of currency by certain casinos having gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1,000,000—In general. If a casino receives currency in excess of $10,000 and is required to report the receipt of such currency directly to the Treasury Department under § 1010.306, § 1021.311, or § 1021.313 and is subject to the recordkeeping requirements of § 1021.410, then the casino is not required to make a report with respect to the receipt of such currency under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
Receipt of currency by certain casinos having gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1,000,000
—
In general.
If a casino receives currency in excess of $10,000 and is required to report the receipt of such currency directly to the Treasury Department under § 1010.306, § 1021.311, or § 1021.313 and is subject to the recordkeeping requirements of § 1021.410, then the casino is not required to make a report with respect to the receipt of such currency under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
(b) Casinos exempt under § 1010.970(c). Pursuant to § 1010.970, the Secretary may exempt from the reporting and recordkeeping requirements under § 1010.306, § 1021.311, § 1021.313 or § 1021.410 casinos in any state whose regulatory system substantially meets the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this chapter. Such casinos shall not be required to report receipt of currency under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
Casinos exempt under § 1010.970(c).
Pursuant to § 1010.970, the Secretary may exempt from the reporting and recordkeeping requirements under § 1010.306, § 1021.311, § 1021.313 or § 1021.410 casinos in any state whose regulatory system substantially meets the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this chapter. Such casinos shall not be required to report receipt of currency under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section.
(c) Reporting of currency received in a non-gaming business. Non-gaming businesses (such as shops, restaurants, entertainment, and hotels) at casino hotels and resorts are separate trades or businesses in which the receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 is reportable under section 5331 and these regulations. Thus, a casino exempt under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must report with respect to currency in excess of $10,000 received in its non-gaming businesses.
Reporting of currency received in a non-gaming business.
Non-gaming businesses (such as shops, restaurants, entertainment, and hotels) at casino hotels and resorts are separate trades or businesses in which the receipt of currency in excess of $10,000 is reportable under section 5331 and these regulations. Thus, a casino exempt under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must report with respect to currency in excess of $10,000 received in its non-gaming businesses.
(d) Example. The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section:
Example.
The following example illustrates the application of the rules in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section:
Example.
A and B are casinos having gross annual gaming revenue in excess of $1,000,000. C is a casino with gross annual gaming revenue of less than $1,000,000. Casino A receives $15,000 in currency from a customer with respect to a gaming transaction which the casino reports to the Treasury Department under §§ 1010.306, 1021.311, and 1021.313. Casino B receives $15,000 in currency from a customer in payment for accommodations provided to that customer at Casino B's hotel. Casino C receives $15,000 in currency from a customer with respect to a gaming transaction. Casino A is not required to report the transaction under 31 U.S.C. 5331 or this section because the exception for certain casinos provided in paragraph (a) of this section (“the casino exception”) applies. Casino B is required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section because the casino exception does not apply to the receipt of currency from a nongaming activity. Casino C is required to report under 31 U.S.C. 5331 and this section because the casino exception does not apply to casinos having gross annual gaming revenue of $1,000,000 or less which do not have to report to the Treasury Department under §§ 1010.306, 1021.311, and 1021.313.

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Casinos and Card Clubs


§ 1021.400   General.

Casinos and card clubs are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.

§ 1021.410   Additional records to be made and retained by casinos.

(a) With respect to each deposit of funds, account opened or line of credit extended after the effective date of these regulations, a casino shall, at the time the funds are deposited, the account is opened or credit is extended, secure and maintain a record of the name, permanent address, and social security number of the person involved. Where the deposit, account or credit is in the names of two or more persons, the casino shall secure the name, permanent address, and social security number of each person having a financial interest in the deposit, account or line of credit. The name and address of such person shall be verified by the casino at the time the deposit is made, account opened, or credit extended. The verification shall be made by examination of a document of the type described in § 1010.312 of this chapter, and the specific identifying information shall be recorded in the manner described in § 1010.312 of this chapter. In the event that a casino has been unable to secure the required social security number, it shall not be deemed to be in violation of this section if it has made a reasonable effort to secure such number and it maintains a list containing the names and permanent addresses of those persons from who it has been unable to obtain social security numbers and makes the names and addresses of those persons available to the Secretary upon request. Where a person is a nonresident alien, the casino shall also record the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity.
(b) In addition, each casino shall retain either the original or a copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) A record of each receipt (including but not limited to funds for safekeeping or front money) of funds by the casino for the account (credit or deposit) of any person. The record shall include the name, permanent address and social security number of the person from whom the funds were received, as well as the date and amount of the funds received. If the person from whom the funds were received is a non-resident alien, the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify the person's identity shall be obtained and recorded;
(2) A record of each bookkeeping entry comprising a debit or credit to a customer's deposit account or credit account with the casino;
(3) Each statement, ledger card or other record of each deposit account or credit account with the casino, showing each transaction (including deposits, receipts, withdrawals, disbursements or transfers) in or with respect to, a customer's deposit account or credit account with the casino;
(4) A record of each extension of credit in excess of $2,500, the terms and conditions of such extension of credit, and repayments. The record shall include the customer's name, permanent address, social security number, and the date and amount of the transaction (including repayments). If the customer or person for whom the credit extended is a non-resident alien, his passport number or description of some other government document used to verify his identity shall be obtained and recorded;
(5) A record of each advice, request or instruction received or given by the casino for itself or another person with respect to a transaction involving a person, account or place outside the United States (including but not limited to communications by wire, letter, or telephone). If the transfer outside the United States is on behalf of a third party, the record shall include the third party's name, permanent address, social security number, signature, and the date and amount of the transaction. If the transfer is received from outside the United States on behalf of a third party, the record shall include the third party's name, permanent address, social security number, signature, and the date and amount of the transaction. If the person for whom the transaction is being made is a non-resident alien the record shall also include the person's name, his passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity;
(6) Records prepared or received by the casino in the ordinary course of business which would be needed to reconstruct a person's deposit account or credit account with the casino or to trace a check deposited with the casino through the casino's records to the bank of deposit;
(7) All records, documents or manuals required to be maintained by a casino under state and local laws or regulations, regulations of any governing Indian tribe or tribal government, or terms of (or any regulations issued under) any Tribal-State compacts entered into pursuant to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, with respect to the casino in question.
(8) All records which are prepared or used by a casino to monitor a customer's gaming activity.
(9)(i) A separate record containing a list of each transaction between the casino and its customers involving the following types of instruments having a face value of $3,000 or more:
(A) Personal checks (excluding instruments which evidence credit granted by a casino strictly for gaming, such as markers);
(B) Business checks (including casino checks);
(C) Official bank checks;
(D) Cashier's checks;
(E) Third-party checks;
(F) Promissory notes;
(G) Traveler's checks; and
(H) Money orders.
(ii) The list will contain the time, date, and amount of the transaction; the name and permanent address of the customer; the type of instrument; the name of the drawee or issuer of the instrument; all reference numbers (e.g., casino account number, personal check number, etc.); and the name or casino license number of the casino employee who conducted the transaction. Applicable transactions will be placed on the list in the chronological order in which they occur.
e.g.,
casino account number, personal check number,
etc.
); and the name or casino license number of the casino employee who conducted the transaction. Applicable transactions will be placed on the list in the chronological order in which they occur.
(10) A copy of the compliance program described in § 1021.210(b).
(11) In the case of card clubs only, records of all currency transactions by customers, including without limitation, records in the form of currency transaction logs and multiple currency transaction logs, and records of all activity at cages or similar facilities, including, without limitation, cage control logs.
(c)(1) Casinos which input, store, or retain, in whole or in part, for any period of time, any record required to be maintained by § 1010.410 of this chapter or this section on computer disk, tape, or other machine-readable media shall retain the same on computer disk, tape, or machine-readable media.
(2) All indexes, books, programs, record layouts, manuals, formats, instructions, file descriptions, and similar materials which would enable a person readily to access and review the records that are described in § 1010.410 of this chapter and this section and that are input, stored, or retained on computer disk, tape, or other machine-readable media shall be retained for the period of time such records are required to be retained.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]]

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity for Casinos and Card Clubs


§ 1021.500   General.

Casinos and card clubs are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this Chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.

§ 1021.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for casinos and card clubs.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1021.530   [Reserved]


§ 1021.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this Chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Casinos and Card Clubs


§ 1021.600   General.

Casinos and card clubs are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Casinos and card clubs should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to casinos and card clubs.

§ 1021.610   Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1021.620   Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.

(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1021.630   Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.

(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1021.640   [Reserved]


§ 1021.670   Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

(a) Refer to § 1010.670 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

PART 1022—RULES FOR MONEY SERVICES BUSINESSES

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 

307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 

307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1022.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein.

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1022.200   General.

Money services businesses are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.

§ 1022.210   Anti-money laundering programs for money services businesses.

(a) Each money services business, as defined by § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter, shall develop, implement, and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program. An effective anti-money laundering program is one that is reasonably designed to prevent the money services business from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities.
(b) The program shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the location and size of, and the nature and volume of the financial services provided by, the money services business.
(c) The program shall be in writing, and a money services business shall make copies of the anti-money laundering program available for inspection to the Department of the Treasury upon request.
(d) At a minimum, the program shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to assure compliance with this chapter.
(i) Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented under this section shall include provisions for complying with the requirements of this chapter including, to the extent applicable to the money services business, requirements for:
(A) Verifying customer identification, including as set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section;
(B) Filing Reports;
(C) Creating and retaining records;
(D) Responding to law enforcement requests.
(ii) Money services businesses that have automated data processing systems should integrate their compliance procedures with such systems.
(iii) A person that is a money services business solely because it is an agent for another money services business as set forth in § 1022.380(a)(3), and the money services business for which it serves as agent, may by agreement allocate between them responsibility for development of policies, procedures, and internal controls required by this paragraph (d)(1). Each money services business shall remain solely responsible for implementation of the requirements set forth in this section, and nothing in this paragraph (d)(1) relieves any money services business from its obligation to establish and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program.
(iv) A money services business that is a provider or seller of prepaid access must establish procedures to verify the identity of a person who obtains prepaid access under a prepaid program and obtain identifying information concerning such a person, including name, date of birth, address, and identification number. Sellers of prepaid access must also establish procedures to verify the identity of a person who obtains prepaid access to funds that exceed $10,000 during any one day and obtain identifying information concerning such a person, including name, date of birth, address, and identification number. Providers of prepaid access must retain access to such identifying information for five years after the last use of the prepaid access device or vehicle; such information obtained by sellers of prepaid access must be retained for five years from the date of the sale of the prepaid access device or vehicle.
(2) Designate a person to assure day to day compliance with the program and this chapter. The responsibilities of such person shall include assuring that:
(i) The money services business properly files reports, and creates and retains records, in accordance with applicable requirements of this chapter;
(ii) The compliance program is updated as necessary to reflect current requirements of this chapter, and related guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury; and
(iii) The money services business provides appropriate training and education in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide education and/or training of appropriate personnel concerning their responsibilities under the program, including training in the detection of suspicious transactions to the extent that the money services business is required to report such transactions under this chapter.
(4) Provide for independent review to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the review shall be commensurate with the risk of the financial services provided by the money services business. Such review may be conducted by an officer or employee of the money services business so long as the reviewer is not the person designated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e) Compliance date. A money services business must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before the later of July 24, 2002, and the end of the 90-day period beginning on the day following the date the business is established.
Compliance date.
A money services business must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before the later of July 24, 2002, and the end of the 90-day period beginning on the day following the date the business is established.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43597, July 21, 2011; 76 FR 45419, July 29, 2011]]

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Money Services Businesses


§ 1022.300   General.

Money services businesses are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.

§ 1022.310   Reports of transactions in currency.

The reports of transactions in currency requirements for money services businesses are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.

§ 1022.311   Filing obligations.

Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for money services businesses.

§ 1022.312   Identification required.

Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by money services businesses.

§ 1022.313   Aggregation.

Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for money services businesses.

§ 1022.314   Structured transactions.

Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for money services businesses.

§ 1022.315   Exemptions.

Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for money services businesses.

§ 1022.320   Reports by money services businesses of suspicious transactions.

(a) General. (1) Every money services business described in § 1010.100(ff)(1), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) of this chapter, shall file with the Treasury Department, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. Any money services business may also file with the Treasury Department, by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
General.
(1) Every money services business described in § 1010.100(ff)(1), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) of this chapter, shall file with the Treasury Department, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. Any money services business may also file with the Treasury Department, by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a money services business, involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $2,000 (except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), and the money services business knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(iii) Serves no business or apparent lawful purpose, and the reporting money services business knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction.
(iv) Involves use of the money services business to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) To the extent that the identification of transactions required to be reported is derived from a review of clearance records or other similar records of money orders or traveler's checks that have been sold or processed, an issuer of money orders or traveler's checks shall only be required to report a transaction or pattern of transactions that involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000.
(4) The obligation to identify and properly and timely to report a suspicious transaction rests with each money services business involved in the transaction, provided that no more than one report is required to be filed by the money services businesses involved in a particular transaction (so long as the report filed contains all relevant facts). Whether, in addition to any liability on its own for failure to report, a money services business that issues the instrument or provides the funds transfer service involved in the transaction may be liable for the failure of another money services business involved in the transaction to report that transaction depends upon the nature of the contractual or other relationship between the businesses, and the legal effect of the facts and circumstances of the relationship and transaction involved, under general principles of the law of agency.
(b) Filing procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report(“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report(“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Where to file. The SAR shall be filed in a central location to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed in a central location to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3) When to file. A money services business subject to this section is required to file each SAR no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the money services business of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as ongoing money laundering schemes, the money services business shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing a SAR. Money services businesses wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
When to file.
A money services business subject to this section is required to file each SAR no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the money services business of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as ongoing money laundering schemes, the money services business shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing a SAR. Money services businesses wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c) Retention of records. A money services business shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the money services business, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A money services business shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the money services business for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the money services business to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the money services business complies with the Bank Secrecy Act.
Retention of records.
A money services business shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the money services business, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A money services business shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the money services business for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the money services business to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the money services business complies with the Bank Secrecy Act.
(d) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by money services businesses—(i) General rule. No money services business, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any money services business, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by money services businesses
—(i)
General rule.
No money services business, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any money services business, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of Construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a money services business, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a money services business, of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the money services business for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the money services business to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the money services business complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the money services business for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the money services business to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the money services business complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
(B) The sharing by a money services business, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the money services business, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the money services business's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e) Limitation on liability. A money services business, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
A money services business, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any money services business, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f) Compliance. Money services businesses shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
Money services businesses shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(g) Applicability date. This section applies to transactions occurring after December 31, 2001.
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after December 31, 2001.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 10518, Feb. 25, 2011; 76 FR 45420, July 29, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]]

§ 1022.380   Registration of money services businesses.

(a) Registration requirement—(1) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, relating to agents, and except for sellers of prepaid access as defined in § 1010.100(ff)(7) of this chapter to the extent that they are not already agents, each money services business (whether or not licensed as a money services business by any State) must register with FinCEN. Each provider of prepaid access must identify each prepaid program for which it is the provider of prepaid access. Each money services business must, as part of its registration, maintain a list of its agents as required by 31 U.S.C. 5330 and this section. This section does not apply to the United States Postal Service, to agencies of the United States, of any State, or of any political subdivision of a State.
Registration requirement
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, relating to agents, and except for sellers of prepaid access as defined in § 1010.100(ff)(7) of this chapter to the extent that they are not already agents, each money services business (whether or not licensed as a money services business by any State) must register with FinCEN. Each provider of prepaid access must identify each prepaid program for which it is the provider of prepaid access. Each money services business must, as part of its registration, maintain a list of its agents as required by 31 U.S.C. 5330 and this section. This section does not apply to the United States Postal Service, to agencies of the United States, of any State, or of any political subdivision of a State.
(2) Foreign-located money services business. Each foreign-located person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized or licensed business concern, in the United States as a money services business shall designate the name and address of a person who resides in the United States and is authorized, and has agreed, to be an agent to accept service of legal process with respect to compliance with this chapter, and shall identify the address of the location within the United States for records pertaining to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
Foreign-located money services business.
Each foreign-located person doing business, whether or not on a regular basis or as an organized or licensed business concern, in the United States as a money services business shall designate the name and address of a person who resides in the United States and is authorized, and has agreed, to be an agent to accept service of legal process with respect to compliance with this chapter, and shall identify the address of the location within the United States for records pertaining to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(3) Agents. A person that is a money services business solely because that person serves as an agent of another money services business, see § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter, is not required to register under this section, but a money services business that engages in activities described in § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter both on its own behalf and as an agent for others must register under this section. For example, a supermarket corporation that acts as an agent for an issuer of money orders and performs no other services of a nature and value that would cause the corporation to be a money services business, is not required to register; the answer would be the same if the supermarket corporation served as an agent both of a money order issuer and of a money transmitter. However, registration would be required if the supermarket corporation, in addition to acting as an agent of an issuer of money orders, cashed checks or exchanged currencies (other than as an agent for another business) in an amount greater than $1,000 in currency or monetary or other instruments for any person on any day, in one or more transactions.
Agents.
A person that is a money services business solely because that person serves as an agent of another money services business, see § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter, is not required to register under this section, but a money services business that engages in activities described in § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter both on its own behalf and as an agent for others must register under this section. For example, a supermarket corporation that acts as an agent for an issuer of money orders and performs no other services of a nature and value that would cause the corporation to be a money services business, is not required to register; the answer would be the same if the supermarket corporation served as an agent both of a money order issuer and of a money transmitter. However, registration would be required if the supermarket corporation, in addition to acting as an agent of an issuer of money orders, cashed checks or exchanged currencies (other than as an agent for another business) in an amount greater than $1,000 in currency or monetary or other instruments for any person on any day, in one or more transactions.
(4) Agency status. The determination whether a person is an agent depends on all the facts and circumstances.
Agency status.
The determination whether a person is an agent depends on all the facts and circumstances.
(b) Registration procedures—(1) In general. (i) A money services business must be registered by filing such form as FinCEN may specify with FinCEN (or such other location as the form may specify). The information required by 31 U.S.C. 5330(b) and any other information required by the form must be reported in the manner and to the extent required by the form.
Registration procedures
—(1)
In general.
(i) A money services business must be registered by filing such form as FinCEN may specify with FinCEN (or such other location as the form may specify). The information required by 31 U.S.C. 5330(b) and any other information required by the form must be reported in the manner and to the extent required by the form.
(ii) A branch office of a money services business is not required to file its own registration form. A money services business must, however, report information about its branch locations or offices as provided by the instructions to the registration form.
(iii) A money services business must retain a copy of any registration form filed under this section and any registration number that may be assigned to the business at a location in the United States and for the period specified in § 1010.430(d) of this Chapter.
(2) Registration period. A money services business must be registered for the initial registration period and each renewal period. The initial registration period is the two-calendar-year period beginning with the calendar year in which the money services business is first required to be registered. However, the initial registration period for a money services business required to register by December 31, 2001 (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section) is the two-calendar year period beginning 2002. Each two-calendar-year period following the initial registration period is a renewal period.
Registration period.
A money services business must be registered for the initial registration period and each renewal period. The initial registration period is the two-calendar-year period beginning with the calendar year in which the money services business is first required to be registered. However, the initial registration period for a money services business required to register by December 31, 2001 (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section) is the two-calendar year period beginning 2002. Each two-calendar-year period following the initial registration period is a renewal period.
(3) Due date. The registration form for the initial registration period must be filed on or before the end of the 180-day period beginning on the day following the date the business is established. The registration form for a renewal period must be filed on or before the last day of the calendar year preceding the renewal period.
Due date.
The registration form for the initial registration period must be filed on or before the end of the 180-day period beginning on the day following the date the business is established. The registration form for a renewal period must be filed on or before the last day of the calendar year preceding the renewal period.
(4) Events requiring re-registration. If a money services business registered as such under the laws of any State experiences a change in ownership or control that requires the business to be re-registered under State law, the money services business must also be re-registered under this section. In addition, if there is a transfer of more than 10 percent of the voting power or equity interests of a money services business (other than a money services business that must report such transfer to the Securities and Exchange Commission), the money services business must be re-registered under this section. Finally, if a money services business experiences a more than 50-per cent increase in the number of its agents during any registration period, the money services business must be re-registered under this section. The registration form must be filed not later than 180 days after such change in ownership, transfer of voting power or equity interests, or increase in agents. The calendar year in which the change, transfer, or increase occurs is treated as the first year of a new two-year registration period.
Events requiring re-registration.
If a money services business registered as such under the laws of any State experiences a change in ownership or control that requires the business to be re-registered under State law, the money services business must also be re-registered under this section. In addition, if there is a transfer of more than 10 percent of the voting power or equity interests of a money services business (other than a money services business that must report such transfer to the Securities and Exchange Commission), the money services business must be re-registered under this section. Finally, if a money services business experiences a more than 50-per cent increase in the number of its agents during any registration period, the money services business must be re-registered under this section. The registration form must be filed not later than 180 days after such change in ownership, transfer of voting power or equity interests, or increase in agents. The calendar year in which the change, transfer, or increase occurs is treated as the first year of a new two-year registration period.
(c) Persons required to file the registration form. Under 31 U.S.C. 5330(a), any person who owns or controls a money services business is responsible for registering the business; however, only one registration form is required to be filed for each registration period. A person is treated as owning or controlling a money services business for purposes of filing the registration form only to the extent provided by the form. If more than one person owns or controls a money services business, the owning or controlling persons may enter into an agreement designating one of them to register the business. The failure of the designated person to register the money services business does not, however, relieve any of the other persons who own or control the business of liability for the failure to register the business. See paragraph (e) of this section, relating to consequences of the failure to comply with 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section.
Persons required to file the registration form.
Under 31 U.S.C. 5330(a), any person who owns or controls a money services business is responsible for registering the business; however, only one registration form is required to be filed for each registration period. A person is treated as owning or controlling a money services business for purposes of filing the registration form only to the extent provided by the form. If more than one person owns or controls a money services business, the owning or controlling persons may enter into an agreement designating one of them to register the business. The failure of the designated person to register the money services business does not, however, relieve any of the other persons who own or control the business of liability for the failure to register the business. See paragraph (e) of this section, relating to consequences of the failure to comply with 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section.
(d) List of agents—(1) In general. A money services business must prepare and maintain a list of its agents. The initial list of agents must be prepared by January 1, 2002, and must be revised each January 1, for the immediately preceding 12 month period; for money services businesses established after December 31, 2001, the initial agent list must be prepared by the due date of the initial registration form and must be revised each January 1 for the immediately preceding 12-month period. The list is not filed with the registration form but must be maintained at the location in the United States reported on the registration form under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Upon request, a money services business must make its list of agents available to FinCEN and any other appropriate law enforcement agency (including, without limitation, the examination function of the Internal Revenue Service in its capacity as delegee of Bank Secrecy Act examination authority). Requests for information made pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be coordinated through FinCEN in the manner and to the extent determined by FinCEN. The original list of agents and any revised list must be retained for the period specified in § 1010.430(d) of this chapter.
List of agents
—(1)
In general.
A money services business must prepare and maintain a list of its agents. The initial list of agents must be prepared by January 1, 2002, and must be revised each January 1, for the immediately preceding 12 month period; for money services businesses established after December 31, 2001, the initial agent list must be prepared by the due date of the initial registration form and must be revised each January 1 for the immediately preceding 12-month period. The list is not filed with the registration form but must be maintained at the location in the United States reported on the registration form under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Upon request, a money services business must make its list of agents available to FinCEN and any other appropriate law enforcement agency (including, without limitation, the examination function of the Internal Revenue Service in its capacity as delegee of Bank Secrecy Act examination authority). Requests for information made pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be coordinated through FinCEN in the manner and to the extent determined by FinCEN. The original list of agents and any revised list must be retained for the period specified in § 1010.430(d) of this chapter.
(2) Information included on the list of agents—(i) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, a money services business must include the following information with respect to each agent on the list (including any revised list) of its agents—
Information included on the list of agents
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, a money services business must include the following information with respect to each agent on the list (including any revised list) of its agents—
(A) The name of the agent, including any trade names or doing-business-as names;
(B) The address of the agent, including street address, city, state, and ZIP code;
(C) The telephone number of the agent;
(D) The type of service or services (money orders, traveler's checks, check sales, check cashing, currency exchange, and money transmitting) the agent provides;
(E) A listing of the months in the 12 months immediately preceding the date of the most recent agent list in which the gross transaction amount of the agent with respect to financial products or services issued by the money services business maintaining the agent list exceeded $100,000. For this purpose, the money services gross transaction amount is the agent's gross amount (excluding fees and commissions) received from transactions of one or more businesses described in § 1010.100(ff) of this chapter;
(F) The name and address of any depository institution at which the agent maintains a transaction account (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C)) for all or part of the funds received in or for the financial products or services issued by the money services business maintaining the list, whether in the agent's or the business principal's name;
(G) The year in which the agent first became an agent of the money services business; and
(H) The number of branches or subagents the agent has.
(ii) Special rules. Information about agent volume must be current within 45 days of the due date of the agent list. The information described by paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(G) and (d)(2)(i)(H) of this section is not required to be included in an agent list with respect to any person that is an agent of the money services business maintaining the list before the first day of the month beginning after February 16, 2000 so long as the information described by paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(G) and (d)(2)(i)(H) of this section is made available upon the request of FinCEN and any other appropriate law enforcement agency (including, without limitation, the examination function of the Internal Revenue Service in its capacity as delegee of Bank Secrecy Act examination authority).
Special rules.
Information about agent volume must be current within 45 days of the due date of the agent list. The information described by paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(G) and (d)(2)(i)(H) of this section is not required to be included in an agent list with respect to any person that is an agent of the money services business maintaining the list before the first day of the month beginning after February 16, 2000 so long as the information described by paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(G) and (d)(2)(i)(H) of this section is made available upon the request of FinCEN and any other appropriate law enforcement agency (including, without limitation, the examination function of the Internal Revenue Service in its capacity as delegee of Bank Secrecy Act examination authority).
(e) Consequences of failing to comply with 31 U.S.C. 5330 or the regulations thereunder. It is unlawful to do business without complying with 31 U.S.C. 5330 and this section. A failure to comply with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section includes the filing of false or materially incomplete information in connection with the registration of a money services business. Any person who fails to comply with any requirement of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section shall be liable for a civil penalty of $5,000 for each violation. Each day a violation of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section continues constitutes a separate violation. In addition, under 31 U.S.C. 5320, the Secretary of the Treasury may bring a civil action to enjoin the violation. See 18 U.S.C. 1960 for a criminal penalty for failure to comply with the registration requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section.
Consequences of failing to comply with 31 U.S.C. 5330 or the regulations thereunder.
It is unlawful to do business without complying with 31 U.S.C. 5330 and this section. A failure to comply with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section includes the filing of false or materially incomplete information in connection with the registration of a money services business. Any person who fails to comply with any requirement of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section shall be liable for a civil penalty of $5,000 for each violation. Each day a violation of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section continues constitutes a separate violation. In addition, under 31 U.S.C. 5320, the Secretary of the Treasury may bring a civil action to enjoin the violation. See 18 U.S.C. 1960 for a criminal penalty for failure to comply with the registration requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5330 or this section.
(f) Applicability date. This section is applicable as of September 20, 1999. Registration of money services businesses under this section will not be required prior to December 31, 2001.
Applicability date.
This section is applicable as of September 20, 1999. Registration of money services businesses under this section will not be required prior to December 31, 2001.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43597, July 21, 2011; 76 FR 45420, July 29, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]]

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Money Services Businesses


§ 1022.400   General.

Money services businesses are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart D of Part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.

§ 1022.410   Additional records to be made and retained by dealers in foreign exchange.

(a)(1) After July 7, 1987, each dealer in foreign exchange shall secure and maintain a record of the taxpayer identification number of each person for whom a transaction account is opened or a line of credit is extended within 30 days after such account is opened or credit line extended. Where a person is a non-resident alien, the dealer in foreign exchange shall also record the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity. Where the account or credit line is in the names of two or more persons, the dealer in foreign exchange shall secure the taxpayer identification number of a person having a financial interest in the account or credit line. In the event that a dealer in foreign exchange has been unable to secure the identification required within the 30-day period specified, it shall nevertheless not be deemed to be in violation of this section if:
(i) It has made a reasonable effort to secure such identification, and
(ii) It maintains a list containing the names, addresses, and account or credit line numbers of those persons from whom it has been unable to secure such identification, and makes the names, addresses, and account or credit line numbers of those persons available to the Secretary as directed by him.
(2) The 30-day period provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be extended where the person opening the account or credit line has applied for a taxpayer identification or social security number on Form SS-4 or SS-5, until such time as the person maintaining the account or credit line has had a reasonable opportunity to secure such number and furnish it to the dealer in foreign exchange.
(3) A taxpayer identification number for an account or credit line required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section need not be secured in the following instances:
(i) Accounts for public funds opened by agencies and instrumentalities of Federal, state, local or foreign governments,
(ii) Accounts for aliens who are—
(A) Ambassadors, ministers, career diplomatic or consular officers, or
(B) Naval, military or other attaches of foreign embassies, and legations, and for members of their immediate families,
(iii) Accounts for aliens who are accredited representatives to international organizations which are entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288), and for the members of their immediate families,
(iv) Aliens temporarily residing in the United States for a period not to exceed 180 days,
(v) Aliens not engaged in a trade or business in the United States who are attending a recognized college or any training program, supervised or conducted by any agency of the Federal Government, and
(vi) Unincorporated subordinate units of a tax exempt central organization which are covered by a group exemption letter.
(b) Each dealer in foreign exchange shall retain either the original or a microfilm or other copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) Statements of accounts from banks, including paid checks, charges or other debit entry memoranda, deposit slips and other credit memoranda representing the entries reflected on such statements;
(2) Daily work records, including purchase and sales slips or other memoranda needed to identify and reconstruct currency transactions with customers and foreign banks;
(3) A record of each exchange of currency involving transactions in excess of $1000, including the name and address of the customer (and passport number or taxpayer identification number unless received by mail or common carrier) date and amount of the transaction and currency name, country, and total amount of each foreign currency;
(4) Signature cards or other documents evidencing signature authority over each deposit or security account, containing the name of the depositor, street address, taxpayer identification number (TIN) or employer identification number (EIN) and the signature of the depositor or of a person authorized to sign on the account (if customer accounts are maintained in a code name, a record of the actual owner of the account);
(5) Each item, including checks, drafts, or transfers of credit, of more than $10,000 remitted or transferred to a person, account or place outside the United States;
(6) A record of each receipt of currency, other monetary instruments, investment securities and checks, and of each transfer of funds or credit, or more than $10,000 received on any one occasion directly and not through a domestic financial institution, from any person, account or place outside the United States;
(7) Records prepared or received by a dealer in the ordinary course of business, that would be needed to reconstruct an account and trace a check in excess of $100 deposited in such account through its internal recordkeeping system to its depository institution, or to supply a description of a deposited check in excess of $100;
(8) A record maintaining the name, address and taxpayer identification number, if available, of any person presenting a certificate of deposit for payment, as well as a description of the instrument and date of transaction;
(9) A system of books and records that will enable the dealer in foreign exchange to prepare an accurate balance sheet and income statement.
(c) This section does not apply to banks that offer services in dealing or changing currency to their customers as an adjunct to their regular service.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 43597, July 21, 2011]]

§ 1022.420   Additional records to be maintained by providers and sellers of prepaid access.

With respect to transactions relating to providers and sellers of prepaid access described in § 1010.100(ff)(4) and (7) that are subject to the requirements of this chapter, each provider of prepaid access shall maintain access to transactional records for a period of five years. The provider of prepaid access, as defined in § 1010.100(ff)(4), shall maintain access to transactional records generated in the ordinary course of business that would be needed to reconstruct prepaid access activation, loads, reloads, purchases, withdrawals, transfers, or other prepaid-related transactions.
[[76 FR 45420, July 29, 2011]]

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1022.500   General.

Money services businesses are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.

§ 1022.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for money services businesses.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1022.530   [Reserved]


§ 1022.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Money Services Businesses


§ 1022.600   General.

Money services businesses are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Money services businesses should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to money services businesses.

§§ 1022.610-1022.670   [Reserved]


PART 1023—RULES FOR BROKERS OR DEALERS IN SECURITIES

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 25, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 25, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1023.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1023. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a) Account. For purposes of § 1023.220:
Account.
For purposes of § 1023.220:
(1) Account means a formal relationship with a broker-dealer established to effect transactions in securities, including, but not limited to, the purchase or sale of securities and securities loaned and borrowed activity, and to hold securities or other assets for safekeeping or as collateral.
(2) Account does not include:
Account
does not include:
(i) An account that the broker-dealer acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or
(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
(b) Broker-dealer means a person registered or required to be registered as a broker or dealer with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11).
Broker-dealer
means a person registered or required to be registered as a broker or dealer with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11).
(c) Commission means, for the purposes of § 1023.220, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
means, for the purposes of § 1023.220, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
(d) Customer. For purposes of § 1023.220:
Customer.
For purposes of § 1023.220:
(1) Customer means:
Customer
means:
(i) A person that opens a new account; and
(ii) An individual who opens a new account for:
(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity; or
(B) An entity that is not a legal person.
(2) Customer does not include:
Customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a state bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or
(iii) A person that has an existing account with the broker-dealer, provided the broker-dealer has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.
(e) Financial institution is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).
Financial institution
is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1023.200   General.

Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.210   Anti-money laundering program requirements for brokers or dealers in securities.

A broker or dealer in securities shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if the broker-dealer implements and maintains a written anti-money laundering program approved by senior management that:
(a) Complies with the requirements of §§ 1010.610 and 1010.620 of this chapter and any applicable regulation of its Federal functional regulator governing the establishment and implementation of anti-money laundering programs;
(b) Includes, at a minimum:
(1) The establishment and implementation of policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and the implementing regulations thereunder;
(2) Independent testing for compliance to be conducted by the broker-dealer's personnel or by a qualified outside party;
(3) Designation of an individual or individuals responsible for implementing and monitoring the operations and internal controls of the program;
(4) Ongoing training for appropriate persons; and
(5) Appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii), customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230 of this chapter); and
(c) Complies with the rules, regulations, or requirements of its self-regulatory organization governing such programs; provided that the rules, regulations, or requirements of the self-regulatory organization governing such programs have been made effective under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by the appropriate Federal functional regulator in consultation with FinCEN.
[[81 FR 29457, May 11, 2016]]

§ 1023.220   Customer identification programs for broker-dealers.

(a) Customer identification program: minimum requirements—(1) In general. A broker-dealer must establish, document, and maintain a written Customer Identification Program (“CIP”) appropriate for its size and business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the broker-dealer's anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
Customer identification program: minimum requirements
—(1)
In general.
A broker-dealer must establish, document, and maintain a written Customer Identification Program (“CIP”) appropriate for its size and business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the broker-dealer's anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
(2) Identity verification procedures. The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the broker-dealer to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the broker-dealer's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained by the broker-dealer, the various methods of opening accounts provided by the broker-dealer, the various types of identifying information available and the broker-dealer's size, location and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
Identity verification procedures.
The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the broker-dealer to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the broker-dealer's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained by the broker-dealer, the various methods of opening accounts provided by the broker-dealer, the various types of identifying information available and the broker-dealer's size, location and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
(i)(A) Customer information required. The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the broker-dealer must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
Customer information required.
The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the broker-dealer must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
(1) Name;
1
) Name;
(2) Date of birth, for an individual;
2
) Date of birth, for an individual;
(3) Address, which shall be:
3
) Address, which shall be:
(i) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
i
) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
(ii) for an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of a next of kin or another contact individual; or
ii
) for an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of a next of kin or another contact individual; or
(iii) for a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
iii
) for a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
(4) Identification number, which shall be:
4
) Identification number, which shall be:
(i) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
i
) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
(ii) for a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number, a passport number and country of issuance, an alien identification card number, or the number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
ii
) for a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number, a passport number and country of issuance, an alien identification card number, or the number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(2)(
i
)(A)(
4
)(
ii
):
When opening an account for a foreign business or enterprise that does not have an identification number, the broker-dealer must request alternative government-issued documentation certifying the existence of the business or enterprise.
(B) Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number. Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number.
Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
(ii) Customer verification. The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of each customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time before or after the customer's account is opened. The procedures must describe when the broker-dealer will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods, as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
Customer verification.
The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of each customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time before or after the customer's account is opened. The procedures must describe when the broker-dealer will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods, as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
(A) Verification through documents. For a broker-dealer relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents the broker-dealer will use. These documents may include:
Verification through documents.
For a broker-dealer relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents the broker-dealer will use. These documents may include:
(1) For an individual, an unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
1
) For an individual, an unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
(2) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or a trust instrument.
2
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or a trust instrument.
(B) Verification through non-documentary methods. For a broker-dealer relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the non-documentary methods the broker-dealer will use.
Verification through non-documentary methods.
For a broker-dealer relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the non-documentary methods the broker-dealer will use.
(1) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; or obtaining a financial statement.
1
) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; or obtaining a financial statement.
(2) The broker-dealer's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the broker-dealer is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the broker-dealer; and where the broker-dealer is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the broker-dealer will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
2
) The broker-dealer's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the broker-dealer is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the broker-dealer; and where the broker-dealer is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the broker-dealer will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
(C) Additional verification for certain customers. The CIP must address situations where, based on the broker-dealer's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the broker-dealer will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account. This verification method applies only when the broker-dealer cannot verify the customer's true identity using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
Additional verification for certain customers.
The CIP must address situations where, based on the broker-dealer's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the broker-dealer will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account. This verification method applies only when the broker-dealer cannot verify the customer's true identity using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(iii) Lack of verification. The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the broker-dealer cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
Lack of verification.
The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the broker-dealer cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
(A) When the broker-dealer should not open an account;
(B) The terms under which a customer may conduct transactions while the broker-dealer attempts to verify the customer's identity;
(C) When the broker-dealer should close an account after attempts to verify a customer's identity fail; and
(D) When the broker-dealer should file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
(3) Recordkeeping. The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
Recordkeeping.
The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) Required records. At a minimum, the record must include:
Required records.
At a minimum, the record must include:
(A) All identifying information about a customer obtained under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section,
(B) A description of any document that was relied on under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section noting the type of document, any identification number contained in the document, the place of issuance, and if any, the date of issuance and expiration date;
(C) A description of the methods and the results of any measures undertaken to verify the identity of a customer under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section; and
(D) A description of the resolution of each substantive discrepancy discovered when verifying the identifying information obtained.
(ii) Retention of records. The broker-dealer must retain the records made under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the account is closed and the records made under paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C) and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made. In all other respects, the records must be maintained pursuant to the provisions of 17 CFR 240.17a-4.
Retention of records.
The broker-dealer must retain the records made under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the account is closed and the records made under paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C) and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made. In all other respects, the records must be maintained pursuant to the provisions of 17 CFR 240.17a-4.
(4) Comparison with government lists. The CIP must include procedures for determining whether a customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the broker-dealer to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures also must require the broker-dealer to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
Comparison with government lists.
The CIP must include procedures for determining whether a customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the broker-dealer to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures also must require the broker-dealer to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
(5)(i) Customer notice. The CIP must include procedures for providing customers with adequate notice that the broker-dealer is requesting information to verify their identities.
Customer notice.
The CIP must include procedures for providing customers with adequate notice that the broker-dealer is requesting information to verify their identities.
(ii) Adequate notice. Notice is adequate if the broker-dealer generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides such notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a broker-dealer may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications or use any other form of oral or written notice.
Adequate notice.
Notice is adequate if the broker-dealer generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides such notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a broker-dealer may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications or use any other form of oral or written notice.
(iii) Sample notice. If appropriate, a broker-dealer may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:
Sample notice.
If appropriate, a broker-dealer may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:
Important Information About Procedures for Opening a New Account
To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person who opens an account.
What this means for you: When you open an account, we will ask for your name, address, date of birth and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver's license or other identifying documents.
(6) Reliance on another financial institution. The CIP may include procedures specifying when the broker-dealer will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the broker-dealer's CIP, with respect to any customer of the broker-dealer that is opening an account or has established an account or similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
Reliance on another financial institution.
The CIP may include procedures specifying when the broker-dealer will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the broker-dealer's CIP, with respect to any customer of the broker-dealer that is opening an account or has established an account or similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(i) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(ii) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), and regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(iii) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the broker-dealer that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it will perform (or its agent will perform) specified requirements of the broker-dealer's CIP.
(b) Exemptions. The Commission, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may by order or regulation exempt any broker-dealer that registers with the Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o or 15 U.S.C. 78o-4 or any type of account from the requirements of this section. The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Commission, may exempt any broker-dealer that registers with the Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o-5. In issuing such exemptions, the Commission and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act, and in the public interest, and may consider other necessary and appropriate factors.
Exemptions.
The Commission, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may by order or regulation exempt any broker-dealer that registers with the Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o or 15 U.S.C. 78o-4 or any type of account from the requirements of this section. The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Commission, may exempt any broker-dealer that registers with the Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o-5. In issuing such exemptions, the Commission and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act, and in the public interest, and may consider other necessary and appropriate factors.
(c) Other requirements unaffected. Nothing in this section relieves a broker-dealer of its obligation to comply with any other provision of this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.
Other requirements unaffected.
Nothing in this section relieves a broker-dealer of its obligation to comply with any other provision of this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Brokers or Dealers in Securities


§ 1023.300   General.

Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.310   Reports of transactions in currency.

The reports of transactions in currency requirements for brokers or dealers in securities are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.

§ 1023.311   Filing obligations.

Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.312   Identification required.

Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.313   Aggregation.

Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.314   Structured transactions.

Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.315   Exemptions.

Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.320   Reports by brokers or dealers in securities of suspicious transactions.

(a) General. (1) Every broker or dealer in securities within the United States (for purposes of this section, a “broker-dealer”) shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A broker-dealer may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve a broker-dealer from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission or a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) (as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)).
General.
(1) Every broker or dealer in securities within the United States (for purposes of this section, a “broker-dealer”) shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A broker-dealer may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve a broker-dealer from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission or a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) (as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)).
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a broker-dealer, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the broker-dealer knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the broker-dealer knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the broker-dealer to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) The obligation to identify and properly and timely to report a suspicious transaction rests with each broker-dealer involved in the transaction, provided that no more than one report is required to be filed by the broker-dealers involved in a particular transaction (so long as the report filed contains all relevant facts).
(b) Filing procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Where to file. The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3) When to file. A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting broker-dealer of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a broker-dealer may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the broker-dealer shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Broker-dealers wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section. The broker-dealer may also, but is not required to, contact the Securities and Exchange Commission to report in such situations.
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting broker-dealer of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a broker-dealer may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the broker-dealer shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Broker-dealers wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section. The broker-dealer may also, but is not required to, contact the Securities and Exchange Commission to report in such situations.
(c) Exceptions. (1) A broker-dealer is not required to file a SAR to report:
Exceptions.
(1) A broker-dealer is not required to file a SAR to report:
(i) A robbery or burglary committed or attempted of the broker-dealer that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities, or for lost, missing, counterfeit, or stolen securities with respect to which the broker-dealer files a report pursuant to the reporting requirements of 17 CFR 240.17f-1;
(ii) A violation otherwise required to be reported under this section of any of the Federal securities laws or rules of an SRO by the broker-dealer or any of its officers, directors, employees, or other registered representatives, other than a violation of 17 CFR 240.17a-8 or 17 CFR 405.4, so long as such violation is appropriately reported to the SEC or an SRO.
(2) A broker-dealer may be required to demonstrate that it has relied on an exception in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and must maintain records of its determinations to do so for the period specified in paragraph (d) of this section. To the extent that a Form RE-3, Form U-4, or Form U-5 concerning the transaction is filed consistent with the SRO rules, a copy of that form will be a sufficient record for purposes of this paragraph (c)(2).
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph (c) the term “Federal securities laws” means the “securities laws,” as that term is defined in section 3(a)(47) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(47), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under such laws.
(d) Retention of records. A broker-dealer shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the broker-dealer, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A broker-dealer shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request; or to any SRO that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Retention of records.
A broker-dealer shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the broker-dealer, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A broker-dealer shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request; or to any SRO that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(e) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by brokers or dealers in securities. (i) General rule. No broker-dealer, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any broker-dealer, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by brokers or dealers in securities.
(i)
General rule.
No broker-dealer, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any broker-dealer, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a broker-dealer, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a broker-dealer, of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or to any SRO that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Securities Exchange Commission; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or to any SRO that examines the broker-dealer for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Securities Exchange Commission; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
(i) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
i
) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(ii) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by a broker-dealer, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the broker-dealer, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the broker-dealer's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(3) Prohibition on disclosures by Self-Regulatory Organizations. Any self-regulatory organization registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR except as necessary to fulfill self-regulatory duties with the consent of the Securities Exchange Commission, in a manner consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “self-regulatory duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding.
Prohibition on disclosures by Self-Regulatory Organizations.
Any self-regulatory organization registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR except as necessary to fulfill self-regulatory duties with the consent of the Securities Exchange Commission, in a manner consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “self-regulatory duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding.
(f) Limitation on liability. A broker-dealer, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
A broker-dealer, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any broker-dealer, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g) Compliance. Broker-dealers shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
Broker-dealers shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(h) Applicability date. This section applies to transactions occurring after December 30, 2002.
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after December 30, 2002.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10519, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]]

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Brokers or Dealers in Securities


§ 1023.400   General.

Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.410   Additional records to be made and retained by brokers or dealers in securities.

(a)(1) With respect to each brokerage account opened with a broker or dealer in securities after June 30, 1972, and before October 1, 2003, by a person residing or doing business in the United States or a citizen of the United States, such broker or dealer shall within 30 days from the date such account is opened, secure and maintain a record of the taxpayer identification number of the person maintaining the account; or in the case of an account of one or more individuals, such broker or dealer shall secure and maintain a record of the social security number of an individual having a financial interest in that account. In the event that a broker or dealer has been unable to secure the identification required within the 30-day period specified, it shall nevertheless not be deemed to be in violation of this section if: It has made a reasonable effort to secure such identification, and it maintains a list containing the names, addresses, and account numbers of those persons from whom it has been unable to secure such identification, and makes the names, addresses, and account numbers of those persons available to the Secretary as directed by him. Where a person is a non-resident alien, the broker or dealer in securities shall also record the person's passport number or a description of some other government document used to verify his identity.
(2) The 30-day period provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be extended where the person opening the account has applied for a taxpayer identification or social security number on Form SS-4 or SS-5, until such time as the person maintaining the account has had a reasonable opportunity to secure such number and furnish it to the broker or dealer.
(3) A taxpayer identification number for a deposit or share account required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section need not be secured in the following instances:
(i) Accounts for public funds opened by agencies and instrumentalities of Federal, state, local, or foreign governments,
(ii) Accounts for aliens who are ambassadors, ministers, career diplomatic or consular officers, or naval, military or other attaches of foreign embassies, and legations, and for the members of their immediate families,
(iii) Accounts for aliens who are accredited representatives to international organizations which are entitled to enjoy privileges, exemptions, and immunities as an international organization under the International Organizations Immunities Act of December 29, 1945 (22 U.S.C. 288), and for the members of their immediate families,
(iv) Aliens temporarily residing in the United States for a period not to exceed 180 days,
(v) Aliens not engaged in a trade or business in the United States who are attending a recognized college or university or any training program, supervised or conducted by any agency of the Federal Government, and
(vi) Unincorporated subordinate units of a tax exempt central organization which are covered by a group exemption letter.
(b) Every broker or dealer in securities shall, in addition, retain either the original or a microfilm or other copy or reproduction of each of the following:
(1) Each document granting signature or trading authority over each customer's account;
(2) Each record described in 17 CFR 240.17a-3(a)(1), (2), (3), (5), (6), (7), (8), and (9);
(3) A record of each remittance or transfer of funds, or of currency, checks, other monetary instruments, investment securities, or credit, of more than $10,000 to a person, account, or place, outside the United States;
(4) A record of each receipt of currency, other monetary instruments, checks, or investment securities and of each transfer of funds or credit, of more than $10,000 received on any one occasion directly and not through a domestic financial institution, from any person, account or place outside the United States.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1023.500   General.

Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for brokers or dealers in securities.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1023.530   [Reserved]


§ 1023.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Brokers or Dealers in Securities


§ 1023.600   General.

Brokers or dealers in securities are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Brokers or dealers in securities should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to brokers or dealers in securities.

§ 1023.610   Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1023.620   Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.

(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1023.630   Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.

(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1023.640   [Reserved]


§ 1023.670   Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

(a) Refer to § 1010.670 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

PART 1024—RULES FOR MUTUAL FUNDS

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1024.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1024. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a) Account. For purposes of § 1024.220:
Account.
For purposes of § 1024.220:
(1) Account means any contractual or other business relationship between a person and a mutual fund established to effect transactions in securities issued by the mutual fund, including the purchase or sale of securities.
Account
means any contractual or other business relationship between a person and a mutual fund established to effect transactions in securities issued by the mutual fund, including the purchase or sale of securities.
(2) Account does not include:
Account
does not include:
(i) An account that a mutual fund acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or
(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
(b) Commission means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
(c) Customer. For purposes of § 1024.220:
Customer.
For purposes of § 1024.220:
(1) Customer means:
Customer
means:
(i) A person that opens a new account; and
(ii) An individual who opens a new account for:
(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity, such as a minor; or
(B) An entity that is not a legal person, such as a civic club.
(2) Customer does not include:
Customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a State bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or
(iii) A person that has an existing account with the mutual fund, provided that the mutual fund has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.
(d) Financial institution is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).
Financial institution
is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1024.200   General.

Mutual funds are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.

§ 1024.210   Anti-money laundering program requirements for mutual funds.

(a) Effective July 24, 2002, each mutual fund shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to prevent the mutual fund from being used for money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities and to achieve and monitor compliance with the applicable requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311, et seq.), and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury. Each mutual fund's anti-money laundering program must be approved in writing by its board of directors or trustees. A mutual fund shall make its anti-money laundering program available for inspection by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
et seq.
), and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury. Each mutual fund's anti-money laundering program must be approved in writing by its board of directors or trustees. A mutual fund shall make its anti-money laundering program available for inspection by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(b) The anti-money laundering program shall at a minimum:
(1) Establish and implement policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to prevent the mutual fund from being used for money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities and to achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and implementing regulations thereunder;
(2) Provide for independent testing for compliance to be conducted by the mutual fund's personnel or by a qualified outside party;
(3) Designate a person or persons responsible for implementing and monitoring the operations and internal controls of the program;
(4) Provide ongoing training for appropriate persons; and
(5) Implement appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii), customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230 of this chapter).
[[81 FR 29457, May 11, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 45187, Sept. 28, 2017]]

§ 1024.220   Customer identification programs for mutual funds.

(a) Customer identification program: minimum requirements—(1) In general. A mutual fund must implement a written Customer Identification Program (“CIP”) appropriate for its size and type of business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the mutual fund's anti-money laundering program required under the regulations implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
Customer identification program: minimum requirements
—(1)
In general.
A mutual fund must implement a written Customer Identification Program (“CIP”) appropriate for its size and type of business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of the mutual fund's anti-money laundering program required under the regulations implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
(2) Identity verification procedures. The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the mutual fund to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the mutual fund's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the manner in which accounts are opened, fund shares are distributed, and purchases, sales and exchanges are effected, the various types of accounts maintained by the mutual fund, the various types of identifying information available, and the mutual fund's customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
Identity verification procedures.
The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable the mutual fund to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the mutual fund's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the manner in which accounts are opened, fund shares are distributed, and purchases, sales and exchanges are effected, the various types of accounts maintained by the mutual fund, the various types of identifying information available, and the mutual fund's customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in this paragraph (a)(2).
(i) Customer information required—(A) In general. The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify the identifying information that will be obtained with respect to each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, a mutual fund must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
Customer information required
—(A)
In general.
The CIP must contain procedures for opening an account that specify the identifying information that will be obtained with respect to each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, a mutual fund must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
(1) Name;
1
) Name;
(2) Date of birth, for an individual;
2
) Date of birth, for an individual;
(3) Address, which shall be:
3
) Address, which shall be:
(i) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
i
) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
(ii) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of next of kin or of another contact individual; or
ii
) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of next of kin or of another contact individual; or
(iii) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
iii
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
(4) Identification number, which shall be:
4
) Identification number, which shall be:
(i) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
i
) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
(ii) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: a taxpayer identification number; passport number and country of issuance; alien identification card number; or number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
ii
) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: a taxpayer identification number; passport number and country of issuance; alien identification card number; or number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(2)(
i
)(A)(
4
)(
ii
):
When opening an account for a foreign business or enterprise that does not have an identification number, the mutual fund must request alternative government-issued documentation certifying the existence of the business or enterprise.
(B) Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number. Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a person that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the person opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number.
Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a person that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the person opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
(ii) Customer verification. The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of the customer, using the information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time after the account is opened. The procedures must describe when the mutual fund will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
Customer verification.
The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of the customer, using the information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time after the account is opened. The procedures must describe when the mutual fund will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
(A) Verification through documents. For a mutual fund relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents that the mutual fund will use. These documents may include:
Verification through documents.
For a mutual fund relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents that the mutual fund will use. These documents may include:
(1) For an individual, unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
1
) For an individual, unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
(2) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or trust instrument.
2
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership, or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or trust instrument.
(B) Verification through non-documentary methods. For a mutual fund relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that describe the non-documentary methods the mutual fund will use.
Verification through non-documentary methods.
For a mutual fund relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that describe the non-documentary methods the mutual fund will use.
(1) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; and obtaining a financial statement.
1
) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; and obtaining a financial statement.
(2) The mutual fund's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the mutual fund is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person; and where the mutual fund is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the mutual fund will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
2
) The mutual fund's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the mutual fund is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person; and where the mutual fund is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the mutual fund will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
(C) Additional verification for certain customers. The CIP must address situations where, based on the mutual fund's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the mutual fund will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account, including persons authorized to effect transactions in the shareholder of record's account, in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the mutual fund cannot verify the customer's true identity using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
Additional verification for certain customers.
The CIP must address situations where, based on the mutual fund's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the mutual fund will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account, including persons authorized to effect transactions in the shareholder of record's account, in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the mutual fund cannot verify the customer's true identity using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(iii) Lack of verification. The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the mutual fund cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
Lack of verification.
The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the mutual fund cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
(A) When the mutual fund should not open an account;
(B) The terms under which a customer may use an account while the mutual fund attempts to verify the customer's identity;
(C) When the mutual fund should file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation; and
(D) When the mutual fund should close an account, after attempts to verify a customer's identity have failed.
(3) Recordkeeping. The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under paragraph (a) of this section.
Recordkeeping.
The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) Required records. At a minimum, the record must include:
Required records.
At a minimum, the record must include:
(A) All identifying information about a customer obtained under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) A description of any document that was relied on under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section noting the type of document, any identification number contained in the document, the place of issuance, and if any, the date of issuance and expiration date;
(C) A description of the methods and the results of any measures undertaken to verify the identity of the customer under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section; and
(D) A description of the resolution of any substantive discrepancy discovered when verifying the identifying information obtained.
(ii) Retention of records. The mutual fund must retain the information in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed. The mutual fund must retain the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made.
Retention of records.
The mutual fund must retain the information in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the date the account is closed. The mutual fund must retain the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made.
(4) Comparison with government lists. The CIP must include procedures for determining whether the customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by the Department of the Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the mutual fund to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier, if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures must also require the mutual fund to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
Comparison with government lists.
The CIP must include procedures for determining whether the customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by the Department of the Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the mutual fund to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier, if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures must also require the mutual fund to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
(5)(i) Customer notice. The CIP must include procedures for providing mutual fund customers with adequate notice that the mutual fund is requesting information to verify their identities.
Customer notice.
The CIP must include procedures for providing mutual fund customers with adequate notice that the mutual fund is requesting information to verify their identities.
(ii) Adequate notice. Notice is adequate if the mutual fund generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides the notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending on the manner in which the account is opened, a mutual fund may post a notice on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications, or use any other form of written or oral notice.
Adequate notice.
Notice is adequate if the mutual fund generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides the notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending on the manner in which the account is opened, a mutual fund may post a notice on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications, or use any other form of written or oral notice.
(iii) Sample notice. If appropriate, a mutual fund may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:
Sample notice.
If appropriate, a mutual fund may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:
Important Information About Procedures for Opening a New Account
To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person who opens an account.
What this means for you: When you open an account, we will ask for your name, address, date of birth, and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver's license or other identifying documents.
(6) Reliance on other financial institutions. The CIP may include procedures specifying when a mutual fund will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the mutual fund's CIP, with respect to any customer of the mutual fund that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar formal business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
Reliance on other financial institutions.
The CIP may include procedures specifying when a mutual fund will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of the mutual fund's CIP, with respect to any customer of the mutual fund that is opening, or has opened, an account or has established a similar formal business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(i) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(ii) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h) and is regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(iii) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the mutual fund that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it (or its agent) will perform the specific requirements of the mutual fund's CIP.
(b) Exemptions. The Commission, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may, by order or regulation, exempt any mutual fund or type of account from the requirements of this section. The Commission and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act and is in the public interest, and may consider other appropriate factors.
Exemptions.
The Commission, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may, by order or regulation, exempt any mutual fund or type of account from the requirements of this section. The Commission and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act and is in the public interest, and may consider other appropriate factors.
(c) Other requirements unaffected. Nothing in this section relieves a mutual fund of its obligation to comply with any other provision in this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.
Other requirements unaffected.
Nothing in this section relieves a mutual fund of its obligation to comply with any other provision in this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Mutual Funds


§ 1024.300   General.

Mutual funds are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.

§ 1024.310   Reports of transactions in currency.

The reports of transactions in currency requirements for mutual funds are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart.

§ 1024.311   Filing obligations.

Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for mutual funds.

§ 1024.312   Identification required.

Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by mutual funds.

§ 1024.313   Aggregation.

Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for mutual funds.

§ 1024.314   Structured transactions.

Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for mutual funds.

§ 1024.315   Exemptions.

Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for mutual funds.

§ 1024.320   Reports by mutual funds of suspicious transactions.

(a) General. (1) Every investment company (as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) (“Investment Company Act”) that is an open-end company (as defined in section 5 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) and that is registered, or is required to register, with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to that Act (for purposes of this section, a “mutual fund”), shall file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A mutual fund may also file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve a mutual fund from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
General.
(1) Every investment company (as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) (“Investment Company Act”) that is an open-end company (as defined in section 5 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5)) and that is registered, or is required to register, with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to that Act (for purposes of this section, a “mutual fund”), shall file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A mutual fund may also file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve a mutual fund from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a mutual fund, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the mutual fund knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the mutual fund knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the mutual fund to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) More than one mutual fund may have an obligation to report the same transaction under this section, and other financial institutions may have separate obligations to report suspicious activity with respect to the same transaction pursuant to other provisions of this chapter. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the mutual fund(s) and other financial institution(s) involved in the transaction, provided that the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the name of each financial institution and the words “joint filing” in the narrative section, and each institution maintains a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(b) Filing and notification procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
Filing and notification procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Where to file. Form SAR shall be filed with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network in accordance with the instructions to the Form SAR.
Where to file.
Form SAR shall be filed with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network in accordance with the instructions to the Form SAR.
(3) When to file. A Form SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting mutual fund of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a Form SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a mutual fund may delay filing a Form SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
When to file.
A Form SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting mutual fund of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a Form SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a mutual fund may delay filing a Form SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
(4) Mandatory notification to law enforcement. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a mutual fund shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
Mandatory notification to law enforcement.
In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a mutual fund shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(5) Voluntary notification to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mutual funds wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a Form SAR if required by this section. The mutual fund may also, but is not required to, contact the Securities and Exchange Commission to report in such situations.
Voluntary notification to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Mutual funds wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a Form SAR if required by this section. The mutual fund may also, but is not required to, contact the Securities and Exchange Commission to report in such situations.
(c) Retention of records. A mutual fund shall maintain a copy of any Form SAR filed by the fund or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any Form SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the Form SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the mutual fund, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the Form SAR. The mutual fund shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the mutual fund for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
Retention of records.
A mutual fund shall maintain a copy of any Form SAR filed by the fund or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any Form SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the Form SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the mutual fund, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the Form SAR. The mutual fund shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the mutual fund for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(d) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by mutual funds—(i) General rule. No mutual fund, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any mutual fund, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by mutual funds
—(i)
General rule.
No mutual fund, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any mutual fund, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a mutual fund, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a mutual fund, of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the mutual fund for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the mutual fund for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(B) The sharing by a mutual fund, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the mutual fund, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the mutual fund's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e) Limitation on liability. A mutual fund, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
A mutual fund, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any mutual fund, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f) Compliance. Mutual funds shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
Mutual funds shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(g) Applicability date. This section applies to transactions occurring after October 31, 2006.
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after October 31, 2006.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10519, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]]

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Mutual Funds


§ 1024.400   General.

Mutual funds are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.

§ 1024.410   Recordkeeping.

Refer to § 1010.410 of this chapter.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1024.500   General.

Mutual funds are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.

§ 1024.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for mutual funds.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1024.530   [Reserved]


§ 1024.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Mutual Funds


§ 1024.600   General.

Mutual funds are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Mutual funds should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to mutual funds.

§ 1024.610   Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1024.620   Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.

(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1024.630   Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.

(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§§ 1024.640-1024.670   [Reserved]


PART 1025—RULES FOR INSURANCE COMPANIES

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1025.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1025. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a) Annuity contract means any agreement between the insurer and the contract owner whereby the insurer promises to pay out a fixed or variable income stream for a period of time.
Annuity contract
means any agreement between the insurer and the contract owner whereby the insurer promises to pay out a fixed or variable income stream for a period of time.
(b) Covered product means:
Covered product
means:
(1) A permanent life insurance policy, other than a group life insurance policy;
(2) An annuity contract, other than a group annuity contract; or
(3) Any other insurance product with features of cash value or investment.
(c) Group annuity contract means a master contract providing annuities to a group of persons under a single contract.
Group annuity contract
means a master contract providing annuities to a group of persons under a single contract.
(d) Group life insurance policy means any life insurance policy under which a number of persons and their dependents, if appropriate, are insured under a single policy.
Group life insurance policy
means any life insurance policy under which a number of persons and their dependents, if appropriate, are insured under a single policy.
(e) Insurance agent means a sales and/or service representative of an insurance company. The term “insurance agent” encompasses any person that sells, markets, distributes, or services an insurance company's covered products, including, but not limited to, a person who represents only one insurance company, a person who represents more than one insurance company, and a bank or broker-dealer in securities that sells any covered product of an insurance company.
Insurance agent
means a sales and/or service representative of an insurance company. The term “insurance agent” encompasses any person that sells, markets, distributes, or services an insurance company's covered products, including, but not limited to, a person who represents only one insurance company, a person who represents more than one insurance company, and a bank or broker-dealer in securities that sells any covered product of an insurance company.
(f) Insurance broker means a person who, by acting as the customer's representative, arranges and/or services covered products on behalf of the customer.
Insurance broker
means a person who, by acting as the customer's representative, arranges and/or services covered products on behalf of the customer.
(g) Insurance company or insurer. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the term “insurance company” or “insurer” means any person engaged within the United States as a business in the issuing or underwriting of any covered product.
Insurance company or insurer.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the term “insurance company” or “insurer” means any person engaged within the United States as a business in the issuing or underwriting of any covered product.
(2) The term “insurance company” or “insurer” does not include an insurance agent or insurance broker.
(h) Permanent life insurance policy means an agreement that contains a cash value or investment element and that obligates the insurer to indemnify or to confer a benefit upon the insured or beneficiary to the agreement contingent upon the death of the insured.
Permanent life insurance policy
means an agreement that contains a cash value or investment element and that obligates the insurer to indemnify or to confer a benefit upon the insured or beneficiary to the agreement contingent upon the death of the insured.

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1025.200   General.

Insurance companies are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Insurance companies should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to insurance companies.

§ 1025.210   Anti-money laundering programs for insurance companies.

(a) In general. Not later than May 2, 2006, each insurance company shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program applicable to its covered products that is reasonably designed to prevent the insurance company from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. An insurance company shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Department of the Treasury, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or their designee upon request.
In general.
Not later than May 2, 2006, each insurance company shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program applicable to its covered products that is reasonably designed to prevent the insurance company from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. An insurance company shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Department of the Treasury, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or their designee upon request.
(b) Minimum requirements. At a minimum, the program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall:
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the program required by paragraph (a) of this section shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the insurance company's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its covered products. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by an insurance company under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this chapter, integrating the company's insurance agents and insurance brokers into its anti-money laundering program, and obtaining all relevant customer-related information necessary for an effective anti-money laundering program.
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively, including monitoring compliance by the company's insurance agents and insurance brokers with their obligations under the program;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary; and
(iii) Appropriate persons are educated and trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide for on-going training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program. An insurance company may satisfy this requirement with respect to its employees, insurance agents, and insurance brokers by directly training such persons or verifying that persons have received training by another insurance company or by a competent third party with respect to the covered products offered by the insurance company.
(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program, including testing to determine compliance of the company's insurance agents and insurance brokers with their obligations under the program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the insurance company's covered products. Such testing may be conducted by a third party or by any officer or employee of the insurance company, other than the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Anti-money laundering program requirements for insurance companies registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as broker-dealers in securities. An insurance company that is registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a broker-dealer in securities shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this section for its broker-dealer activities to the extent that the company is required to establish and has established an anti-money laundering program pursuant to § 1023.210 of this chapter and complies with such program.
Anti-money laundering program requirements for insurance companies registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as broker-dealers in securities.
An insurance company that is registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a broker-dealer in securities shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this section for its broker-dealer activities to the extent that the company is required to establish and has established an anti-money laundering program pursuant to § 1023.210 of this chapter and complies with such program.
(d) Compliance. Compliance with this section shall be examined by the Department of the Treasury, through the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its delegees, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
Compliance with this section shall be examined by the Department of the Treasury, through the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its delegees, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made By Insurance Companies


§ 1025.300   General.

Insurance companies are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Insurance companies should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to insurance companies.

§§ 1025.310-1025.315   [Reserved]


§ 1025.320   Reports by insurance companies of suspicious transactions.

(a) General. (1) Each insurance company shall file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction involving a covered product that is relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. An insurance company may also file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but the reporting of which is not required by this section.
General.
(1) Each insurance company shall file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction involving a covered product that is relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. An insurance company may also file with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network by using the form specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or otherwise, a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but the reporting of which is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through an insurance company, and involves or aggregates at least $5,000 in funds or other assets, and the insurance company knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the insurance company knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the insurance company to facilitate criminal activity.
(3)(i) An insurance company is responsible for reporting suspicious transactions conducted through its insurance agents and insurance brokers. Accordingly, an insurance company shall establish and implement policies and procedures reasonably designed to obtain customer-related information necessary to detect suspicious activity from all relevant sources, including from its insurance agents and insurance brokers, and shall report suspicious activity based on such information.
(ii) Certain insurance agents may have a separate obligation to report suspicious activity pursuant to other provisions of this chapter. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the financial institutions involved in the transaction, as long as the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the names of both institutions and the words “joint filing” in the narrative section, and both institutions maintain a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(iii) An insurance company that issues variable insurance products funded by separate accounts that meet the definition of a mutual fund in § 1024.320(a)(1) of this chapter shall file reports of suspicious transactions pursuant to § 1024.320 of this chapter.
(b) Filing procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Where to file. The SAR shall be filed with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3) When to file. A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the insurance company of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, an insurance company may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the insurance company shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Insurance companies wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the insurance company of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, an insurance company may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the insurance company shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. Insurance companies wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c) Exception. An insurance company is not required to file a SAR to report the submission to it of false or fraudulent information to obtain a policy or make a claim, unless the company has reason to believe that the false or fraudulent submission relates to money laundering or terrorist financing.
Exception.
An insurance company is not required to file a SAR to report the submission to it of false or fraudulent information to obtain a policy or make a claim, unless the company has reason to believe that the false or fraudulent submission relates to money laundering or terrorist financing.
(d) Retention of records. An insurance company shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the insurance company and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. When an insurance company has filed or is identified as a filer in a joint Suspicious Activity Report, the insurance company shall maintain a copy of such joint report (together with copies of any supporting documentation) for a period of five years from the date of filing. An insurance company shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the insurance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the insurance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
Retention of records.
An insurance company shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the insurance company and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. When an insurance company has filed or is identified as a filer in a joint Suspicious Activity Report, the insurance company shall maintain a copy of such joint report (together with copies of any supporting documentation) for a period of five years from the date of filing. An insurance company shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the insurance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the insurance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(e) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by insurance companies—(i) General rule. No insurance company, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any insurance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by insurance companies
—(i)
General rule.
No insurance company, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any insurance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of Construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by an insurance company, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of an insurance company, of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the insurance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the insurance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the insurance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the insurance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the institution complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
(B) The sharing by an insurance company, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the insurance company, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the insurance company's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(f) Limitation on liability. An insurance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
An insurance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any insurance company, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g) Compliance. Insurance companies shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
Insurance companies shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(h) Suspicious transaction reporting requirements for insurance companies registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as broker-dealers in securities. An insurance company that is registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a broker-dealer in securities shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this section for its broker-dealer activities to the extent that the company complies with the reporting requirements applicable to such activities pursuant to § 1023.320 of this chapter.
Suspicious transaction reporting requirements for insurance companies registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as broker-dealers in securities.
An insurance company that is registered or required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a broker-dealer in securities shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this section for its broker-dealer activities to the extent that the company complies with the reporting requirements applicable to such activities pursuant to § 1023.320 of this chapter.
(i) Applicability date. This section applies to transactions occurring after May 2, 2006.
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after May 2, 2006.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 10520, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]]

§ 1025.330   Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

Refer to § 1010.330 of this chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by insurance companies.

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Insurance Companies


§ 1025.400   General.

Insurance companies are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Insurance companies should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to insurance companies.

§ 1025.410   Recordkeeping.

Refer to § 1010.410.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1025.500   General.

Insurance companies are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Insurance companies should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to insurance companies.

§ 1025.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for insurance companies.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1025.530   [Reserved]


§ 1025.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Insurance Companies


§§ 1025.600-1025.670   [Reserved]


PART 1026—RULES FOR FUTURES COMMISSION MERCHANTS AND INTRODUCING BROKERS IN COMMODITIES

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1026.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1026. Unless otherwise indicated, for the purposes of this part:
(a) Account. For purposes of § 1026.220:
Account.
For purposes of § 1026.220:
(1) Account means a formal relationship with a futures commission merchant, including, but not limited to, those established to effect transactions in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, options on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or options on a commodity.
Account
means a formal relationship with a futures commission merchant, including, but not limited to, those established to effect transactions in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, options on any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or options on a commodity.
(2) Account does not include:
Account
does not include:
(i) An account that the futures commission merchant acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or
(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
(b) Commodity means any good, article, service, right, or interest described in Section 1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(4)).
Commodity
means any good, article, service, right, or interest described in Section 1a(4) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(4)).
(c) Contract of sale means any sale, agreement of sale or agreement to sell as described in Section 1a(7) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(7)).
Contract of sale
means any sale, agreement of sale or agreement to sell as described in Section 1a(7) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(7)).
(d) Customer. For purposes of § 1026.220:
Customer.
For purposes of § 1026.220:
(1) Customer means:
Customer
means:
(i) A person that opens a new account with a futures commission merchant; and
(ii) An individual who opens a new account with a futures commission merchant for:
(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity; or
(B) An entity that is not a legal person.
(2) Customer does not include:
Customer
does not include:
(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a state bank regulator;
(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or
(iii) A person that has an existing account, provided the futures commission merchant or introducing broker has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.
(3) When an account is introduced to a futures commission merchant by an introducing broker, the person or individual opening the account shall be deemed to be a customer of both the futures commission merchant and the introducing broker for the purposes of this section.
customer
of both the futures commission merchant and the introducing broker for the purposes of this section.
(e) Financial institution is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).
Financial institution
is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).
(f) Futures commission merchant means any person registered or required to be registered as a futures commission merchant with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to Section 4f(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2)).
Futures commission merchant
means any person registered or required to be registered as a futures commission merchant with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to Section 4f(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2)).
(g) Introducing broker means any person registered or required to be registered as an introducing broker with the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to Section 4f(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2)).
Introducing broker
means any person registered or required to be registered as an introducing broker with the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), except persons who register pursuant to Section 4f(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(2)).
(h) Option means an agreement, contract or transaction described in Section 1a(26) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(26)).
Option
means an agreement, contract or transaction described in Section 1a(26) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(26)).

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1026.200   General.

Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.

§ 1026.210   Anti-money laundering program requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.

A futures commission merchant and an introducing broker in commodities shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1) if the futures commission merchant or introducing broker in commodities implements and maintains a written anti-money laundering program approved by senior management that:
(a) Complies with the requirements of §§ 1010.610 and 1010.620 of this chapter and any applicable regulation of its Federal functional regulator governing the establishment and implementation of anti-money laundering programs;
(b) Includes, at a minimum:
(1) The establishment and implementation of policies, procedures, and internal controls reasonably designed to prevent the financial institution from being used for money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities and to achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and the implementing regulations thereunder;
(2) Independent testing for compliance to be conducted by the futures commission merchant or introducing broker in commodities' personnel or by a qualified outside party;
(3) Designation of an individual or individuals responsible for implementing and monitoring the operations and internal controls of the program;
(4) Ongoing training for appropriate persons;
(5) Appropriate risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence, to include, but not be limited to:
(i) Understanding the nature and purpose of customer relationships for the purpose of developing a customer risk profile; and
(ii) Conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and report suspicious transactions and, on a risk basis, to maintain and update customer information. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii), customer information shall include information regarding the beneficial owners of legal entity customers (as defined in § 1010.230 of this chapter); and
(c) Complies with the rules, regulations, or requirements of its self-regulatory organization governing such programs, provided that the rules, regulations, or requirements of the self-regulatory organization governing such programs have been made effective under the Commodity Exchange Act by the appropriate Federal functional regulator in consultation with FinCEN.
[[81 FR 29458, May 11, 2016]]

§ 1026.220   Customer identification programs for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers.

(a) Customer identification program: Minimum requirements—(1) In general. Each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must implement a written Customer Identification Program (CIP) appropriate for its size and business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of each futures commission merchant's and introducing broker's anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
Customer identification program: Minimum requirements
—(1)
In general.
Each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must implement a written Customer Identification Program (CIP) appropriate for its size and business that, at a minimum, includes each of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. The CIP must be a part of each futures commission merchant's and introducing broker's anti-money laundering compliance program required under 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
(2) Identity verification procedures. The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable each futures commission merchant and introducing broker to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained, the various methods of opening accounts, the various types of identifying information available, and the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's size, location and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
Identity verification procedures.
The CIP must include risk-based procedures for verifying the identity of each customer to the extent reasonable and practicable. The procedures must enable each futures commission merchant and introducing broker to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of each customer. The procedures must be based on the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's assessment of the relevant risks, including those presented by the various types of accounts maintained, the various methods of opening accounts, the various types of identifying information available, and the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's size, location and customer base. At a minimum, these procedures must contain the elements described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(i)(A) Customer information required. The CIP must include procedures for opening an account that specify identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
Customer information required.
The CIP must include procedures for opening an account that specify identifying information that will be obtained from each customer. Except as permitted by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must obtain, at a minimum, the following information prior to opening an account:
(1) Name;
1
) Name;
(2) Date of birth, for an individual;
2
) Date of birth, for an individual;
(3) Address, which shall be:
3
) Address, which shall be:
(i) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
i
) For an individual, a residential or business street address;
(ii) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of a next of kin or another contact individual; or
ii
) For an individual who does not have a residential or business street address, an Army Post Office (APO) or Fleet Post Office (FPO) box number, or the residential or business street address of a next of kin or another contact individual; or
(iii) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
iii
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), a principal place of business, local office or other physical location; and
(4) Identification number, which shall be:
4
) Identification number, which shall be:
(i) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
i
) For a U.S. person, a taxpayer identification number; or
(ii) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number, a passport number and country of issuance, an alien identification card number, or the number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
ii
) For a non-U.S. person, one or more of the following: A taxpayer identification number, a passport number and country of issuance, an alien identification card number, or the number and country of issuance of any other government-issued document evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard.
Note to paragraph (
a
)(2)(
i
)(A)(
4
)(
ii
):
When opening an account for a foreign business or enterprise that does not have an identification number, the futures commission merchant or introducing broker must request alternative government-issued documentation certifying the existence of the business or enterprise.
(B) Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number. Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
Exception for persons applying for a taxpayer identification number.
Instead of obtaining a taxpayer identification number from a customer prior to opening an account, the CIP may include procedures for opening an account for a customer that has applied for, but has not received, a taxpayer identification number. In this case, the CIP must include procedures to confirm that the application was filed before the customer opens the account and to obtain the taxpayer identification number within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened.
(ii) Customer verification. The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of each customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time before or after the customer's account is opened. The procedures must describe when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods, as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
Customer verification.
The CIP must contain procedures for verifying the identity of each customer, using information obtained in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, within a reasonable time before or after the customer's account is opened. The procedures must describe when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use documents, non-documentary methods, or a combination of both methods, as described in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii).
(A) Verification through documents. For a futures commission merchant or introducing broker relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use. These documents may include:
Verification through documents.
For a futures commission merchant or introducing broker relying on documents, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the documents the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use. These documents may include:
(1) For an individual, an unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
1
) For an individual, an unexpired government-issued identification evidencing nationality or residence and bearing a photograph or similar safeguard, such as a driver's license or passport; and
(2) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or a trust instrument.
2
) For a person other than an individual (such as a corporation, partnership or trust), documents showing the existence of the entity, such as certified articles of incorporation, a government-issued business license, a partnership agreement, or a trust instrument.
(B) Verification through non-documentary methods. For a futures commission merchant or introducing broker relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the non-documentary methods the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use.
Verification through non-documentary methods.
For a futures commission merchant or introducing broker relying on non-documentary methods, the CIP must contain procedures that set forth the non-documentary methods the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will use.
(1) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; or obtaining a financial statement.
1
) These methods may include contacting a customer; independently verifying the customer's identity through the comparison of information provided by the customer with information obtained from a consumer reporting agency, public database, or other source; checking references with other financial institutions; or obtaining a financial statement.
(2) The futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the futures commission merchant or introducing broker; and where the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
2
) The futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's non-documentary procedures must address situations where an individual is unable to present an unexpired government-issued identification document that bears a photograph or similar safeguard; the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is not familiar with the documents presented; the account is opened without obtaining documents; the customer opens the account without appearing in person at the futures commission merchant or introducing broker; and where the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is otherwise presented with circumstances that increase the risk that the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will be unable to verify the true identity of a customer through documents.
(C) Additional verification for certain customers. The CIP must address situations where, based on the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker cannot verify the customer's true identity after using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
Additional verification for certain customers.
The CIP must address situations where, based on the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's risk assessment of a new account opened by a customer that is not an individual, the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will obtain information about individuals with authority or control over such account in order to verify the customer's identity. This verification method applies only when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker cannot verify the customer's true identity after using the verification methods described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(iii) Lack of verification. The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the futures commission merchant or introducing broker cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
Lack of verification.
The CIP must include procedures for responding to circumstances in which the futures commission merchant or introducing broker cannot form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of a customer. These procedures should describe:
(A) When an account should not be opened;
(B) The terms under which a customer may conduct transactions while the futures commission merchant or introducing broker attempts to verify the customer's identity;
(C) When an account should be closed after attempts to verify a customer's identity have failed; and
(D) When the futures commission merchant or introducing broker should file a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
(3) Recordkeeping. The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
Recordkeeping.
The CIP must include procedures for making and maintaining a record of all information obtained under procedures implementing paragraph (a) of this section.
(i) Required records. At a minimum, the record must include:
Required records.
At a minimum, the record must include:
(A) All identifying information about a customer obtained under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) A description of any document that was relied on under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section noting the type of document, any identification number contained in the document, the place of issuance, and if any, the date of issuance and expiration date;
(C) A description of the methods and the results of any measures undertaken to verify the identity of a customer under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section; and
(D) A description of the resolution of each substantive discrepancy discovered when verifying the identifying information obtained.
(ii) Retention of records. Each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must retain the records made under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the account is closed and the records made under paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made. In all other respects, the records must be maintained pursuant to the provisions of 17 CFR 1.31.
Retention of records.
Each futures commission merchant and introducing broker must retain the records made under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section for five years after the account is closed and the records made under paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(B), (C), and (D) of this section for five years after the record is made. In all other respects, the records must be maintained pursuant to the provisions of 17 CFR 1.31.
(4) Comparison with government lists. The CIP must include procedures for determining whether a customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the futures commission merchant or introducing broker to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures also must require the futures commission merchant or introducing broker to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
Comparison with government lists.
The CIP must include procedures for determining whether a customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations issued by any Federal government agency and designated as such by Treasury in consultation with the Federal functional regulators. The procedures must require the futures commission merchant or introducing broker to make such a determination within a reasonable period of time after the account is opened, or earlier if required by another Federal law or regulation or Federal directive issued in connection with the applicable list. The procedures also must require the futures commission merchant or introducing broker to follow all Federal directives issued in connection with such lists.
(5)(i) Customer notice. The CIP must include procedures for providing customers with adequate notice that the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is requesting information to verify their identities.
Customer notice.
The CIP must include procedures for providing customers with adequate notice that the futures commission merchant or introducing broker is requesting information to verify their identities.
(ii) Adequate notice. Notice is adequate if the futures commission merchant or introducing broker generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides such notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a futures commission merchant or introducing broker may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications or use any other form of written or oral notice.
Adequate notice.
Notice is adequate if the futures commission merchant or introducing broker generally describes the identification requirements of this section and provides such notice in a manner reasonably designed to ensure that a customer is able to view the notice, or is otherwise given notice, before opening an account. For example, depending upon the manner in which the account is opened, a futures commission merchant or introducing broker may post a notice in the lobby or on its Web site, include the notice on its account applications or use any other form of written or oral notice.
(iii) Sample notice. If appropriate, a futures commission merchant or introducing broker may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:
Sample notice.
If appropriate, a futures commission merchant or introducing broker may use the following sample language to provide notice to its customers:
Important Information About Procedures for Opening a New Account
To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person who opens an account.
What this means for you: When you open an account, we will ask for your name, address, date of birth and other information that will allow us to identify you. We may also ask to see your driver's license or other identifying documents.
(6) Reliance on another financial institution. The CIP may include procedures specifying when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of its CIP, with respect to any customer of the futures commission merchant or introducing broker that is opening an account, or has established an account or similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
Reliance on another financial institution.
The CIP may include procedures specifying when the futures commission merchant or introducing broker will rely on the performance by another financial institution (including an affiliate) of any procedures of its CIP, with respect to any customer of the futures commission merchant or introducing broker that is opening an account, or has established an account or similar business relationship with the other financial institution to provide or engage in services, dealings, or other financial transactions, provided that:
(i) Such reliance is reasonable under the circumstances;
(ii) The other financial institution is subject to a rule implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(h), and is regulated by a Federal functional regulator; and
(iii) The other financial institution enters into a contract requiring it to certify annually to the futures commission merchant or introducing broker that it has implemented its anti-money laundering program, and that it will perform (or its agent will perform) specified requirements of the futures commission merchant's or introducing broker's CIP.
(b) Exemptions. The CFTC, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may by order or regulation exempt any futures commission merchant or introducing broker that registers with the CFTC or any type of account from the requirements of this section. In issuing such exemptions, the CFTC and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act, and in the public interest, and may consider other necessary and appropriate factors.
Exemptions.
The CFTC, with the concurrence of the Secretary, may by order or regulation exempt any futures commission merchant or introducing broker that registers with the CFTC or any type of account from the requirements of this section. In issuing such exemptions, the CFTC and the Secretary shall consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act, and in the public interest, and may consider other necessary and appropriate factors.
(c) Other requirements unaffected. Nothing in this section relieves a futures commission merchant or introducing broker of its obligation to comply with any other provision of this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.
Other requirements unaffected.
Nothing in this section relieves a futures commission merchant or introducing broker of its obligation to comply with any other provision of this chapter, including provisions concerning information that must be obtained, verified, or maintained in connection with any account or transaction.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities


§ 1026.300   General.

Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.

§ 1026.310   Reports of transactions in currency.

The reports of transactions in currency requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are located in subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter and this subpart

§ 1026.311   Filing obligations.

Refer to § 1010.311 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency filing obligations for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
[[76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011]]

§ 1026.312   Identification required.

Refer to § 1010.312 of this chapter for identification requirements for reports of transactions in currency filed by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
[[76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011]]

§ 1026.313   Aggregation.

Refer to § 1010.313 of this chapter for reports of transactions in currency aggregation requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
[[76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011]]

§ 1026.314   Structured transactions.

Refer to § 1010.314 of this chapter for rules regarding structured transactions for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.
[[76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011]]

§ 1026.315   Exemptions.

Refer to § 1010.315 of this chapter for exemptions from the obligation to file reports of transactions in currency for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.

§ 1026.320   Reports by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities of suspicious transactions.

(a) General—(1) Every futures commission merchant (“FCM”) and introducing broker in commodities (“IB-C”) within the United States shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. An FCM or IB-C may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve an FCM or IB-C from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the CFTC or any registered futures association or registered entity as those terms are defined in the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”), 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1a(29).
General
—(1) Every futures commission merchant (“FCM”) and introducing broker in commodities (“IB-C”) within the United States shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. An FCM or IB-C may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation but whose reporting is not required by this section. Filing a report of a suspicious transaction does not relieve an FCM or IB-C from the responsibility of complying with any other reporting requirements imposed by the CFTC or any registered futures association or registered entity as those terms are defined in the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”), 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1a(29).
(2) A transaction requires reporting under the terms of this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through an FCM or IB-C, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the FCM or IB-C knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or of any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the FCM or IB-C knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the FCM or IB-C to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) The obligation to identify and properly and timely to report a suspicious transaction rests with each FCM and IB-C involved in the transaction, provided that no more than one report is required to be filed by any of the FCMs or IB-Cs involved in a particular transaction, so long as the report filed contains all relevant facts.
(b) Filing procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Where to file. The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in a central location, to be determined by FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the SAR.
(3) When to file. A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting FCM or IB-C of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, an FCM or IB-C may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the FCM or IB-C shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. FCMs and IB-Cs wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section. The FCM or IB-C may also, but is not required to, contact the CFTC to report in such situations.
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting FCM or IB-C of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, an FCM or IB-C may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, the FCM or IB-C shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR. FCMs and IB-Cs wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section. The FCM or IB-C may also, but is not required to, contact the CFTC to report in such situations.
(c) Exceptions. (1) An FCM or IB-C is not required to file a SAR to report—
Exceptions.
(1) An FCM or IB-C is not required to file a SAR to report—
(i) A robbery or burglary committed or attempted of the FCM or IB-C that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities;
(ii) A violation otherwise required to be reported under the CEA (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), the regulations of the CFTC (17 CFR chapter I), or the rules of any registered futures association or registered entity as those terms are defined in the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1a(29), by the FCM or IB-C or any of its officers, directors, employees, or associated persons, other than a violation of 17 CFR 42.2, as long as such violation is appropriately reported to the CFTC or a registered futures association or registered entity.
et seq.
), the regulations of the CFTC (17 CFR chapter I), or the rules of any registered futures association or registered entity as those terms are defined in the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1a(29), by the FCM or IB-C or any of its officers, directors, employees, or associated persons, other than a violation of 17 CFR 42.2, as long as such violation is appropriately reported to the CFTC or a registered futures association or registered entity.
(2) An FCM or IB-C may be required to demonstrate that it has relied on an exception in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and must maintain records of its determinations to do so for the period specified in paragraph (d) of this section. To the extent that a Form 8-R, 8-T, U-5, or any other similar form concerning the transaction is filed consistent with CFTC, registered futures association, or registered entity rules, a copy of that form will be a sufficient record for the purposes of this paragraph (c)(2).
(d) Retention of records. An FCM or IB-C shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the FCM or IB-C, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. An FCM or IB-C shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the BSA, upon request; or to any registered futures association or registered entity (as defined in the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1(a)(29)) (collectively, a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”)) that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Retention of records.
An FCM or IB-C shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the FCM or IB-C, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. An FCM or IB-C shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the BSA, upon request; or to any registered futures association or registered entity (as defined in the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 21 and 7 U.S.C. 1(a)(29)) (collectively, a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”)) that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(e) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities—(i) General rule. No FCM or IB-C, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any FCM or IB-C, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities
—(i)
General rule.
No FCM or IB-C, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any FCM or IB-C, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of Construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of Construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (e)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by an FCM or IB-C, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of an FCM or IB-C, of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the BSA; or to any SRO that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the BSA; or to any SRO that examines the FCM or IB-C for compliance with the requirements of this section, upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures:
(i) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
i
) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(ii) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by an FCM or IB-C, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the FCM or IB-C, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the FCM's or IB-C's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the BSA as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the BSA. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or Tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the BSA. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(3) Prohibition on disclosures by Self-Regulatory Organizations. Any self-regulatory organization registered with or designated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR except as necessary to fulfill self-regulatory duties upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in a manner consistent with Title II of the BSA. For purposes of this section, “self-regulatory duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding.
Prohibition on disclosures by Self-Regulatory Organizations.
Any self-regulatory organization registered with or designated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR except as necessary to fulfill self-regulatory duties upon the request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in a manner consistent with Title II of the BSA. For purposes of this section, “self-regulatory duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding.
(f) Limitation on liability. An FCM or IB-C, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
An FCM or IB-C, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any FCM or IB-C, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(g) Compliance. FCMs or IB-Cs shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
FCMs or IB-Cs shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegatees for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(h) Applicability date. This section applies to transactions occurring after May 18, 2004.
Applicability date.
This section applies to transactions occurring after May 18, 2004.
[[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 10521, Feb. 25, 2011; 81 FR 76865, Nov. 4, 2016]]

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities


§ 1026.400   General.

Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.

§ 1026.410   Recordkeeping.

Refer to § 1010.410 of this chapter.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1026.500   General.

Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.

§ 1026.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1026.530   [Reserved]


§ 1026.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Futures Commission Merchants and Introducing Brokers in Commodities


§ 1026.600   General.

Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities are subject to the special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities should also refer to subpart F of part 1010 of this chapter for special standards of diligence; prohibitions; and special measures contained in that subpart which apply to futures commission merchants and introducing brokers in commodities.

§ 1026.610   Due diligence programs for correspondent accounts for foreign financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.610 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1026.620   Due diligence programs for private banking accounts.

(a) Refer to § 1010.620 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1026.630   Prohibition on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks; records concerning owners of foreign banks and agents for service of legal process.

(a) Refer to § 1010.630 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1026.640   [Reserved]


§ 1026.670   Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

(a) Refer to § 1010.670 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

PART 1027—RULES FOR DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS, PRECIOUS STONES, OR JEWELS

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1027.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1027. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a) Covered goods means:
Covered goods
means:
(1) Jewels (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section);
(2) Precious metals (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section);
(3) Precious stones (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section); and
(4) Finished goods (including, but not limited to, jewelry, numismatic items, and antiques), that derive 50 percent or more of their value from jewels, precious metals, or precious stones contained in or attached to such finished goods;
(b) Dealer. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the term “dealer” means a person engaged within the United States as a business in the purchase and sale of covered goods and who, during the prior calendar or tax year:
Dealer.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the term “dealer” means a person engaged within the United States as a business in the purchase and sale of covered goods and who, during the prior calendar or tax year:
(i) Purchased more than $50,000 in covered goods; and
(ii) Received more than $50,000 in gross proceeds from the sale of covered goods.
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “dealer” does not include:
(i) A retailer (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section), unless the retailer, during the prior calendar or tax year, purchased more than $50,000 in covered goods from persons other than dealers or other retailers (such as members of the general public or foreign sources of supply); or
(ii) A person licensed or authorized under the laws of any State (or political subdivision thereof) to conduct business as a pawnbroker, but only to the extent such person is engaged in pawn transactions (including the sale of pawn loan collateral).
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the terms “purchase” and “sale” do not include a retail transaction in which a retailer or a dealer accepts from a customer covered goods, the value of which the retailer or dealer credits to the account of the customer, and the retailer or dealer does not provide funds to the customer in exchange for such covered goods.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section and § 1027.210(a), the terms “purchase” and “sale” do not include the purchase of jewels, precious metals, or precious stones that are incorporated into machinery or equipment to be used for industrial purposes, and the purchase and sale of such machinery or equipment.
(5) For purposes of applying the $50,000 thresholds in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2)(i) of this section to finished goods defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, only the value of jewels, precious metals, or precious stones contained in, or attached to, such goods shall be taken into account.
(c) Jewel means an organic substance with gem quality market-recognized beauty, rarity, and value, and includes pearl, amber, and coral.
Jewel
means an organic substance with gem quality market-recognized beauty, rarity, and value, and includes pearl, amber, and coral.
(d) Precious metal means:
Precious metal
means:
(1) Gold, iridium, osmium, palladium, platinum, rhodium, ruthenium, or silver, having a level of purity of 500 or more parts per thousand; and
(2) An alloy containing 500 or more parts per thousand, in the aggregate, of two or more of the metals listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e) Precious stone means a substance with gem quality market-recognized beauty, rarity, and value, and includes diamond, corundum (including rubies and sapphires), beryl (including emeralds and aquamarines), chrysoberyl, spinel, topaz, zircon, tourmaline, garnet, crystalline and cryptocrystalline quartz, olivine peridot, tanzanite, jadeite jade, nephrite jade, spodumene, feldspar, turquoise, lapis lazuli, and opal.
Precious stone
means a substance with gem quality market-recognized beauty, rarity, and value, and includes diamond, corundum (including rubies and sapphires), beryl (including emeralds and aquamarines), chrysoberyl, spinel, topaz, zircon, tourmaline, garnet, crystalline and cryptocrystalline quartz, olivine peridot, tanzanite, jadeite jade, nephrite jade, spodumene, feldspar, turquoise, lapis lazuli, and opal.
(f) Retailer means a person engaged within the United States in the business of sales primarily to the public of covered goods.
Retailer
means a person engaged within the United States in the business of sales primarily to the public of covered goods.

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1027.200   General.

Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

§ 1027.210   Anti-money laundering programs for dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

(a) Anti-money laundering program requirement. (1) Each dealer shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to prevent the dealer from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities through the purchase and sale of covered goods. The program must be approved by senior management. A dealer shall make its anti-money laundering program available to the Department of Treasury through FinCEN or its designee upon request.
Anti-money laundering program requirement.
(1) Each dealer shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to prevent the dealer from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities through the purchase and sale of covered goods. The program must be approved by senior management. A dealer shall make its anti-money laundering program available to the Department of Treasury through FinCEN or its designee upon request.
(2) To the extent that a retailer's purchases from persons other than dealers and other retailers exceeds the $50,000 threshold contained in § 1027.100(b)(2)(i), the anti-money laundering compliance program required of the retailer under this paragraph need only address such purchases.
(b) Minimum requirements. At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the dealer's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its line(s) of business. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by a dealer under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (31 U.S.C. 5311 et seq.), and this chapter.
et seq.
), and this chapter.
(i) For purposes of making the risk assessment required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a dealer shall take into account all relevant factors including, but not limited to:
(A) The type(s) of products the dealer buys and sells, as well as the nature of the dealer's customers, suppliers, distribution channels, and geographic locations;
(B) The extent to which the dealer engages in transactions other than with established customers or sources of supply, or other dealers subject to this rule; and
(C) Whether the dealer engages in transactions for which payment or account reconciliation is routed to or from accounts located in jurisdictions that have been identified by the Department of State as a sponsor of international terrorism under 22 U.S.C. 2371; designated as non-cooperative with international anti-money laundering principles or procedures by an intergovernmental group or organization of which the United States is a member and with which designation the United States representative or organization concurs; or designated by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5318A as warranting special measures due to money laundering concerns.
(ii) A dealer's program shall incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls to assist the dealer in identifying transactions that may involve use of the dealer to facilitate money laundering or terrorist financing, including provisions for making reasonable inquiries to determine whether a transaction involves money laundering or terrorist financing, and for refusing to consummate, withdrawing from, or terminating such transactions. Factors that may indicate a transaction is designed to involve use of the dealer to facilitate money laundering or terrorist financing include, but are not limited to:
(A) Unusual payment methods, such as the use of large amounts of cash, multiple or sequentially numbered money orders, traveler's checks, or cashier's checks, or payment from third parties;
(B) Unwillingness by a customer or supplier to provide complete or accurate contact information, financial references, or business affiliations;
(C) Attempts by a customer or supplier to maintain an unusual degree of secrecy with respect to the transaction, such as a request that normal business records not be kept;
(D) Purchases or sales that are unusual for the particular customer or supplier, or type of customer or supplier; and
(E) Purchases or sales that are not in conformity with standard industry practice.
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary to reflect changes in the risk assessment, requirements of this chapter, and further guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury; and
(iii) Appropriate personnel are trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide for on-going education and training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program.
(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the risk assessment conducted by the dealer in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Such testing may be conducted by an officer or employee of the dealer, so long as the tester is not the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or a person involved in the operation of the program.
(c) Implementation date. A dealer must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before the later of January 1, 2006, or six months after the date a dealer becomes subject to the requirements of this section.
Implementation date.
A dealer must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before the later of January 1, 2006, or six months after the date a dealer becomes subject to the requirements of this section.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels


§ 1027.300   General.

Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this Chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

§§ 1027.310-1027.320   [Reserved]


§ 1027.330   Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

Refer to § 1010.330 of this chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels


§ 1027.400   General.

Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

§ 1027.410   Recordkeeping.

Refer to § 1010.410 of this chapter.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1027.500   General.

Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels should also refer to Ssubpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

§ 1027.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for dealers in precious metals, precious stones, or jewels.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1027.530   [Reserved]


§ 1027.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels


§§ 1027.600-1027.670   [Reserved]


PART 1028—RULES FOR OPERATORS OF CREDIT CARD SYSTEMS

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314, Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.
[Source:75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1028.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1028. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:
(a) Acquiring institution means a person authorized by the operator of a credit card system to contract, directly or indirectly, with merchants or other persons to process transactions, including cash advances, involving the operator's credit card.
Acquiring institution
means a person authorized by the operator of a credit card system to contract, directly or indirectly, with merchants or other persons to process transactions, including cash advances, involving the operator's credit card.
(b) Credit card has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(k). It includes charge cards as defined in 12 CFR 226.2(15).
Credit card
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(k). It includes charge cards as defined in 12 CFR 226.2(15).
(c) Foreign bank means any organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country; engages in the business of banking; is recognized as a bank by the bank supervisory or monetary authority of the country of its organization or the country of its principal banking operations; and receives deposits in the regular course of its business. For purposes of this definition:
Foreign bank
means any organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country; engages in the business of banking; is recognized as a bank by the bank supervisory or monetary authority of the country of its organization or the country of its principal banking operations; and receives deposits in the regular course of its business. For purposes of this definition:
(1) The term foreign bank includes a branch of a foreign bank in a territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(2) The term foreign bank does not include:
(i) A U.S. agency or branch of a foreign bank; and
(ii) An insured bank organized under the laws of a territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(d) Issuing institution means a person authorized by the operator of a credit card system to issue the operator's credit card.
Issuing institution
means a person authorized by the operator of a credit card system to issue the operator's credit card.
(e) Operator of a credit card system means any person doing business in the United States that operates a system for clearing and settling transactions in which the operator's credit card, whether acting as a credit or debit card, is used to purchase goods or services or to obtain a cash advance. To fall within this definition, the operator must also have authorized another person (whether located in the United States or not) to be an issuing or acquiring institution for the operator's credit card.
Operator of a credit card system
means any person doing business in the United States that operates a system for clearing and settling transactions in which the operator's credit card, whether acting as a credit or debit card, is used to purchase goods or services or to obtain a cash advance. To fall within this definition, the operator must also have authorized another person (whether located in the United States or not) to be an issuing or acquiring institution for the operator's credit card.
(f) Operator's credit card means a credit card capable of being used in the United States that:
Operator's credit card
means a credit card capable of being used in the United States that:
(1) Has been issued by an issuing institution; and
(2) Can be used in the operator's credit card system.

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1028.200   General.

Operators of credit card systems are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Operators of credit card systems should also refer to Subpart B of Part 1010 of this Chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to operators of credit card systems.

§ 1028.210   Anti-money laundering programs for operators of credit card systems.

(a) Anti-money laundering program requirement. Effective July 24, 2002, each operator of a credit card system shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to prevent the operator of a credit card system from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. Operators of credit card systems must make their anti-money laundering programs available to the Department of the Treasury or the appropriate Federal regulator for review.
Anti-money laundering program requirement.
Effective July 24, 2002, each operator of a credit card system shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program reasonably designed to prevent the operator of a credit card system from being used to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. Operators of credit card systems must make their anti-money laundering programs available to the Department of the Treasury or the appropriate Federal regulator for review.
(b) Minimum requirements. At a minimum, the program must:
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the program must:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls designed to ensure the following:
(i) That the operator does not authorize, or maintain authorization for, any person to serve as an issuing or acquiring institution without the operator taking appropriate steps, based upon the operator's money laundering or terrorist financing risk assessment, to guard against that person issuing the operator's credit card or acquiring merchants who accept the operator's credit card in circumstances that facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities;
(ii) For purposes of making the risk assessment required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the following persons are presumed to pose a heightened risk of money laundering or terrorist financing when evaluating whether and under what circumstances to authorize, or to maintain authorization for, any such person to serve as an issuing or acquiring institution:
(A) A foreign shell bank that is not a regulated affiliate, as those terms are defined in § 1010.605(g) and (n) of this Chapter;
(B) A person appearing on the Specially Designated Nationals List issued by Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control;
(C) A person located in, or operating under a license issued by, a jurisdiction whose government has been identified by the Department of State as a sponsor of international terrorism under 22 U.S.C. 2371;
(D) A foreign bank operating under an offshore banking license, other than a branch of a foreign bank if such foreign bank has been found by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841, et seq.) or the International Banking Act (12 U.S.C. 3101, et seq.) to be subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by the relevant supervisors in that jurisdiction;
et seq.
) or the International Banking Act (12 U.S.C. 3101,
et seq.
) to be subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by the relevant supervisors in that jurisdiction;
(E) A person located in, or operating under a license issued by, a jurisdiction that has been designated as noncooperative with international anti-money laundering principles or procedures by an intergovernmental group or organization of which the United States is a member, with which designation the United States representative to the group or organization concurs; and
(F) A person located in, or operating under a license issued by, a jurisdiction that has been designated by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5318A as warranting special measures due to money laundering concerns;
(iii) That the operator is in compliance with all applicable provisions of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this chapter;
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for assuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary to reflect changes in risk factors or the risk assessment, current requirements of this chapter, and further guidance issued by the Department of the Treasury; and
(iii) Appropriate personnel are trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(3) Provide for education and training of appropriate personnel concerning their responsibilities under the program; and
(4) Provide for an independent audit to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the audit shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the persons authorized to issue or accept the operator's credit card. Such audit may be conducted by an officer or employee of the operator, so long as the reviewer is not the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or a person involved in the operation of the program.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Operators of Credit Card Systems


§ 1028.300   General.

Operators of credit card systems are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Operators of credit card systems should also refer to Subpart C of Part 1010 of this Chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to operators of credit card systems.

§§ 1028.310-1028.320   [Reserved]


§ 1028.330   Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

Refer to § 1010.330 of this Chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by operators of credit card systems.

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Operators of Credit Card Systems


§ 1028.400   General.

Operators of credit card systems are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Operators of credit card systems should also refer to Subpart D of Part 1010 of this Chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to operators of credit card systems.

§ 1028.410   Recordkeeping.

Refer to § 1010.410 of this Chapter.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1028.500   General.

Operators of credit card systems are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Operators of credit card systems should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to operators of credit card systems.

§ 1028.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for operators of credit card systems.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1028.530   [Reserved]


§ 1028.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions; and Special Measures for Operators of Credit Card Systems


§§ 1028.600-1028.670   [Reserved]


PART 1029—RULES FOR LOAN OR FINANCE COMPANIES

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.
[Source:77 FR 8157, Feb. 14, 2012, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
77 FR 8157, Feb. 14, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1029.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this Chapter for general definitions not noted herein.

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1029.200   General.

Loan or finance companies are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Loan or finance companies should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart which apply to loan or finance companies.

§ 1029.210   Anti-money laundering programs for loan or finance companies.

(a) Anti-money laundering program requirements for loan or finance companies. Each loan or finance company shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program that is reasonably designed to prevent the loan or finance company from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. A loan or finance company shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its designee upon request.
Anti-money laundering program requirements for loan or finance companies.
Each loan or finance company shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program that is reasonably designed to prevent the loan or finance company from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. A loan or finance company shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its designee upon request.
(b) Minimum requirements. At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the loan or finance company's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its products and services. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by a loan or finance company under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this part, integrating the company's agents and brokers into its anti-money laundering program, and obtaining all relevant customer-related information necessary for an effective anti-money laundering program.
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively, including monitoring compliance by the company's agents and brokers with their obligations under the program;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary; and
(iii) Appropriate persons are educated and trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide for on-going training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program. A loan or finance company may satisfy this requirement with respect to its employees, agents, and brokers by directly training such persons or verifying that such persons have received training by a competent third party with respect to the products and services offered by the loan or finance company.
(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program, including testing to determine compliance of the company's agents and brokers with their obligations under the program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the company's products and services. Such testing may be conducted by a third party or by any officer or employee of the loan or finance company, other than the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Compliance. Compliance with this section shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegates, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this part.
Compliance.
Compliance with this section shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegates, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this part.
(d) Compliance date. A loan or finance company must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section by August 13, 2012.
Compliance date.
A loan or finance company must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section by August 13, 2012.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Loan or Finance Companies


§ 1029.300   General.

Loan or finance companies are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Loan or finance companies should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart which apply to loan or finance companies.

§§ 1029.310-1029.315   [Reserved]


§ 1029.320   Reports by loan or finance companies of suspicious transactions.

(a) General. (1) Every loan or finance company shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A loan or finance company may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section.
General.
(1) Every loan or finance company shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A loan or finance company may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a loan or finance company, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the loan or finance company knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this part or any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act, Public Law 91-508, as amended, codified at 12 U.S.C. 1829b, 12 U.S.C. 1951-1959, and 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5332;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the loan or finance company knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the loan or finance company to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) More than one loan or finance company may have an obligation to report the same transaction under this section, and other financial institutions may have separate obligations to report suspicious activity with respect to the same transaction pursuant to other provisions of this part. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the loan or finance company(s) and other financial institution(s) involved in the transaction, provided that the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the name of each financial institution involved in the transaction, the report complies with all instructions applicable to joint filings, and each institution maintains a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(b) Filing and notification procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
Filing and notification procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Where to file. The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in accordance with the instructions to the SAR.
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in accordance with the instructions to the SAR.
(3) When to file. A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting loan or finance company of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a loan or finance company may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting loan or finance company of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a loan or finance company may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
(4) Mandatory notification to law enforcement. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a loan or finance company shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
Mandatory notification to law enforcement.
In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a loan or finance company shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(5) Voluntary notification to FinCEN. Any loan or finance company wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
Voluntary notification to FinCEN.
Any loan or finance company wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call the FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline at 1-866-556-3974 in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c) Retention of records. A loan or finance company shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed by the loan or finance company or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the loan or finance company, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. The loan or finance company shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN, or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the loan or finance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the loan or finance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the loan or finance company complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
Retention of records.
A loan or finance company shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed by the loan or finance company or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the loan or finance company, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. The loan or finance company shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN, or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the loan or finance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the loan or finance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the loan or finance company complies with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(d) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this part.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this part.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by loan or finance companies—(i) General rule. No loan or finance company, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any loan or finance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by loan or finance companies
—(i)
General rule.
No loan or finance company, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any loan or finance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a loan or finance company, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a loan or finance company of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, any Federal regulatory authority that examines the loan or finance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the loan or finance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the loan or finance company complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, any Federal regulatory authority that examines the loan or finance company for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, or any State regulatory authority administering a State law that requires the loan or finance company to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act or otherwise authorizes the State authority to ensure that the loan or finance company complies with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including, but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including, but not limited to, disclosures to another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR.
(B) The sharing by a loan or finance company, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the loan or finance company, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the loan or finance company's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, state, local, territorial, or tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, official duties shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, state, local, territorial, or tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, official duties shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e) Limitation on liability. A loan or finance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
A loan or finance company, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any loan or finance company, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f) Compliance. Loan or finance companies shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegates under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act, for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this part.
Compliance.
Loan or finance companies shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegates under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act, for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this part.
(g) Compliance date. This section applies to transactions initiated after an anti-money laundering program required by section 1029.210 of this part is required to be implemented.
Compliance date.
This section applies to transactions initiated after an anti-money laundering program required by section 1029.210 of this part is required to be implemented.

§ 1029.330   Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

Refer to § 1010.330 of this chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by loan or finance companies.

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained By Loan or Finance Companies


§ 1029.400   General.

Loan or finance companies are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Loan or finance companies should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart which apply to loan or finance companies.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1029.500   General.

Loan or finance companies are subject to the special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Loan or finance companies should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart which apply to loan or finance companies.

§ 1029.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for loan or finance companies.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1029.530   [Reserved]


§ 1029.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Loan or Finance Companies


§§ 1029.600-1029.670   [Reserved]


PART 1030—RULES FOR HOUSING GOVERNMENT SPONSORED ENTERPRISES

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314 and 5316-5332; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307.
[Source:79 FR 10375, Feb. 25, 2014, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
79 FR 10375, Feb. 25, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

Subpart A—Definitions


§ 1030.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein.

Subpart B—Programs


§ 1030.200   General.

Housing government sponsored enterprises are subject to the program requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Housing government sponsored enterprises should also refer to subpart B of part 1010 of this chapter for program requirements contained in that subpart that apply to housing government sponsored enterprises.

§ 1030.210   Anti-money laundering programs for housing government sponsored enterprises.

(a) Anti-money laundering program requirements for housing government sponsored enterprises. Each housing government sponsored enterprise shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program that is reasonably designed to prevent the housing government sponsored enterprise from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. A housing government sponsored enterprise shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its designee upon request.
Anti-money laundering program requirements for housing government sponsored enterprises.
Each housing government sponsored enterprise shall develop and implement a written anti-money laundering program that is reasonably designed to prevent the housing government sponsored enterprise from being used to facilitate money laundering or the financing of terrorist activities. The program must be approved by senior management. A housing government sponsored enterprise shall make a copy of its anti-money laundering program available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network or its designee upon request.
(b) Minimum requirements. At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
Minimum requirements.
At a minimum, the anti-money laundering program shall:
(1) Incorporate policies, procedures, and internal controls based upon the housing government sponsored enterprise's assessment of the money laundering and terrorist financing risks associated with its products and services. Policies, procedures, and internal controls developed and implemented by a housing government sponsored enterprise under this section shall include provisions for complying with the applicable requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and this part, and obtaining all relevant customer-related information necessary for an effective anti-money laundering program.
(2) Designate a compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring that:
(i) The anti-money laundering program is implemented effectively;
(ii) The anti-money laundering program is updated as necessary; and
(iii) Appropriate persons are educated and trained in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) Provide for on-going training of appropriate persons concerning their responsibilities under the program. A housing government sponsored enterprise may satisfy this requirement by training such persons or verifying that such persons have received training by a competent third party with respect to the products and services offered by the housing government sponsored enterprise.
(4) Provide for independent testing to monitor and maintain an adequate program. The scope and frequency of the testing shall be commensurate with the risks posed by the housing government sponsored enterprise's products and services. Such testing may be conducted by a third party or by any officer or employee of the housing government sponsored enterprise, other than the person designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c) Compliance. Compliance with this section shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegate, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
Compliance with this section shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegate, under the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may constitute a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(d) Compliance date. A housing government sponsored enterprise must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before August 25, 2014.
Compliance date.
A housing government sponsored enterprise must develop and implement an anti-money laundering program that complies with the requirements of this section on or before August 25, 2014.

Subpart C—Reports Required To Be Made by Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises


§ 1030.300   General.

Housing government sponsored enterprises are subject to the reporting requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Housing government sponsored enterprises should also refer to subpart C of part 1010 of this chapter for reporting requirements contained in that subpart that apply to housing government sponsored enterprises.

§§ 1030.310-1030.315   [Reserved]


§ 1030.320   Reports by housing government sponsored enterprises of suspicious transactions.

(a) General—(1) Every housing government sponsored enterprise shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A housing government sponsored enterprise may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section.
General
—(1) Every housing government sponsored enterprise shall file with FinCEN, to the extent and in the manner required by this section, a report of any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible violation of law or regulation. A housing government sponsored enterprise may also file with FinCEN a report of any suspicious transaction that it believes is relevant to the possible violation of any law or regulation, but whose reporting is not required by this section.
(2) A transaction requires reporting under this section if it is conducted or attempted by, at, or through a housing government sponsored enterprise, it involves or aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000, and the housing government sponsored enterprise knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that the transaction (or a pattern of transactions of which the transaction is a part):
(i) Involves funds derived from illegal activity or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activity (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any Federal law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law or regulation;
(ii) Is designed, whether through structuring or other means, to evade any requirements of this chapter or any other regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act;
(iii) Has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular housing government sponsored enterprise customer would normally be expected to engage, and the housing government sponsored enterprise knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction; or
(iv) Involves use of the housing government sponsored enterprise to facilitate criminal activity.
(3) More than one housing government sponsored enterprise may have an obligation to report the same transaction under this section, and financial institutions involved in that same transaction may have separate obligations to report suspicious activity with respect to that transaction pursuant to other provisions of this chapter. In those instances, no more than one report is required to be filed by the housing government sponsored enterprise(s) and any financial institution(s) involved in the transaction, provided that the report filed contains all relevant facts, including the name of each housing government sponsored enterprise or financial institution involved in the transaction, the report complies with all instructions applicable to joint filings, and each institution maintains a copy of the report filed, along with any supporting documentation.
(b) Filing and notification procedures—(1) What to file. A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
Filing and notification procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A suspicious transaction shall be reported by completing a Suspicious Activity Report (“SAR”), and collecting and maintaining supporting documentation as required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Where to file. The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in accordance with the instructions to the SAR.
Where to file.
The SAR shall be filed with FinCEN in accordance with the instructions to the SAR.
(3) When to file. A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting housing government sponsored enterprise of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a housing government sponsored enterprise may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
When to file.
A SAR shall be filed no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection by the reporting housing government sponsored enterprise of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR under this section. If no suspect is identified on the date of such initial detection, a housing government sponsored enterprise may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect, but in no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of such initial detection.
(4) Mandatory notification to law enforcement. In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a housing government sponsored enterprise shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
Mandatory notification to law enforcement.
In situations involving violations that require immediate attention, such as suspected terrorist financing or ongoing money laundering schemes, a housing government sponsored enterprise shall immediately notify by telephone an appropriate law enforcement authority in addition to filing timely a SAR.
(5) Voluntary notification to FinCEN. Any housing government sponsored enterprise wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
Voluntary notification to FinCEN.
Any housing government sponsored enterprise wishing voluntarily to report suspicious transactions that may relate to terrorist activity may call FinCEN's Financial Institutions Hotline in addition to filing timely a SAR if required by this section.
(c) Retention of records. A housing government sponsored enterprise shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed by the housing government sponsored enterprise or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the housing government sponsored enterprise, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A housing government sponsored enterprise shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the housing government sponsored enterprise for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
Retention of records.
A housing government sponsored enterprise shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed by the housing government sponsored enterprise or on its behalf (including joint reports), and the original (or business record equivalent) of any supporting documentation concerning any SAR that it files (or is filed on its behalf), for a period of five years from the date of filing the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified as such and maintained by the housing government sponsored enterprise, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A housing government sponsored enterprise shall make all supporting documentation available to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the housing government sponsored enterprise for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, upon request.
(d) Confidentiality of SARs. A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (d). For purposes of this paragraph (d) only, a SAR shall include any suspicious activity report filed with FinCEN pursuant to any regulation in this chapter.
(1) Prohibition on disclosures by housing government sponsored enterprises—(i) General rule. No housing government sponsored enterprise, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any housing government sponsored enterprise, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
Prohibition on disclosures by housing government sponsored enterprises
—(i)
General rule.
No housing government sponsored enterprise, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR. Any housing government sponsored enterprise, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify FinCEN of any such request and the response thereto.
(ii) Rules of construction. Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (d)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a housing government sponsored enterprise, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a housing government sponsored enterprise of:
(1) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the housing government sponsored enterprise for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to FinCEN or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, or any Federal regulatory authority that examines the housing government sponsored enterprise for compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(2) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another housing government sponsored enterprise or a financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a housing government sponsored enterprise or financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including but not limited to, disclosures to another housing government sponsored enterprise or a financial institution, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a housing government sponsored enterprise or financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(B) The sharing by a housing government sponsored enterprise, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of the housing government sponsored enterprise, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the housing government sponsored enterprise's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2) Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities. A Federal, State, local, territorial, or tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
Prohibition on disclosures by government authorities.
A Federal, State, local, territorial, or tribal government authority, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall not disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with Title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, “official duties” shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for disclosure of non-public information or a request for use in a private legal proceeding, including a request pursuant to 31 CFR 1.11.
(e) Limitation on liability. A housing government sponsored enterprise, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
Limitation on liability.
A housing government sponsored enterprise, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any housing government sponsored enterprise, that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another institution, shall be protected from liability for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(f) Compliance. Housing government sponsored enterprises shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegate for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
Compliance.
Housing government sponsored enterprises shall be examined by FinCEN or its delegate for compliance with this section. Failure to satisfy the requirements of this section may be a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act and of this chapter.
(g) Applicability date. This section is effective when an anti-money laundering program required by § 1030.210 of this part is required to be implemented.
Applicability date.
This section is effective when an anti-money laundering program required by § 1030.210 of this part is required to be implemented.

§ 1030.330   Reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received in a trade or business.

Refer to § 1010.330 of this chapter for rules regarding the filing of reports relating to currency in excess of $10,000 received by housing government sponsored enterprises.

Subpart D—Records Required To Be Maintained by Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises


§ 1030.400   General.

Housing government sponsored enterprises are subject to the recordkeeping requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Housing government sponsored enterprises should also refer to subpart D of part 1010 of this chapter for recordkeeping requirements contained in that subpart that apply to housing government sponsored enterprises.

Subpart E—Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity


§ 1030.500   General.

Housing government sponsored enterprises are subject to special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity requirements set forth and cross referenced in this subpart. Housing government sponsored enterprises should also refer to subpart E of part 1010 of this chapter for special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity contained in that subpart that apply to housing government sponsored enterprises.

§ 1030.520   Special information sharing procedures to deter money laundering and terrorist activity for housing government sponsored enterprises.

(a) Refer to § 1010.520 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

§ 1030.530   [Reserved]


§ 1030.540   Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.

(a) Refer to § 1010.540 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]

Subpart F—Special Standards of Diligence; Prohibitions, and Special Measures for Housing Government Sponsored Enterprises


§§ 1030.600-1030.670   [Reserved]


PART 1031—RULES FOR PERSONS INVOLVED IN REAL ESTATE CLOSINGS AND SETTLEMENTS

[Authority:12 U.S.C. 1829b, 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5336; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701 Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599; sec. 6403, Pub. L. 116-283, 134 Stat. 3388.]
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1829b, 1951-1959; 31 U.S.C. 5311-5314, 5316-5336; title III, sec. 314 Pub. L. 107-56, 115 Stat. 307; sec. 701 Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599; sec. 6403, Pub. L. 116-283, 134 Stat. 3388.
[Source:89 FR 70290, Aug. 29, 2024, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
89 FR 70290, Aug. 29, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

Subparts A-B [Reserved]


Subpart C—Reports Required to be Made by Persons Involved in Real Estate Closings and Settlements


§ 1031.320   Reports of residential real property transfers.

(a) General. A reportable transfer as defined in paragraph (b) of this section shall be reported to FinCEN by the reporting person identified in paragraph (c) of this section. The report shall include the information described in paragraphs (d) through (i) of this section. The reporting person may reasonably rely on information collected from others under the conditions described in paragraph (j). The report required by this section shall be filed in the form and manner, and at the time, specified in paragraph (k) of this section. Records shall be retained as specified in paragraph (l) of this section. Reports required under this section and any other information that would reveal that a reportable transfer has been reported are not confidential as specified in paragraph (m) of this section. Terms not defined in this section are defined in 31 CFR 1010.100.
General.
A reportable transfer as defined in paragraph (b) of this section shall be reported to FinCEN by the reporting person identified in paragraph (c) of this section. The report shall include the information described in paragraphs (d) through (i) of this section. The reporting person may reasonably rely on information collected from others under the conditions described in paragraph (j). The report required by this section shall be filed in the form and manner, and at the time, specified in paragraph (k) of this section. Records shall be retained as specified in paragraph (l) of this section. Reports required under this section and any other information that would reveal that a reportable transfer has been reported are not confidential as specified in paragraph (m) of this section. Terms not defined in this section are defined in 31 CFR 1010.100.
(b) Reportable transfer. (1) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a reportable transfer is a non-financed transfer to a transferee entity or transferee trust of an ownership interest in residential real property. For the purposes of this section, residential real property means:
Reportable transfer.
(1) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a reportable transfer is a non-financed transfer to a transferee entity or transferee trust of an ownership interest in residential real property. For the purposes of this section, residential real property means:
(i) Real property located in the United States containing a structure designed principally for occupancy by one to four families;
(ii) Land located in the United States on which the transferee intends to build a structure designed principally for occupancy by one to four families;
(iii) A unit designed principally for occupancy by one to four families within a structure on land located in the United States; or
(iv) Shares in a cooperative housing corporation for which the underlying property is located in the United States.
(2) A reportable transfer does not include a:
(i) Grant, transfer, or revocation of an easement;
(ii) Transfer resulting from the death of an individual, whether pursuant to the terms of a decedent's will or the terms of a trust, the operation of law, or by contractual provision;
(iii) Transfer incident to divorce or dissolution of a marriage or civil union;
(iv) Transfer to a bankruptcy estate;
(v) Transfer supervised by a court in the United States;
(vi) Transfer for no consideration made by an individual, either alone or with the individual's spouse, to a trust of which that individual, that individual's spouse, or both of them, are the settlor(s) or grantor(s);
(vii) Transfer to a qualified intermediary for purposes of 26 CFR 1.1031(k)-1; or
(viii) Transfer for which there is no reporting person.
(c) Determination of reporting person. (1) Except as set forth in paragraphs (c)(2), (3) and (4) of this section, the reporting person for a reportable transfer is the person engaged within the United States as a business in the provision of real estate closing and settlement services that is:
Determination of reporting person.
(1) Except as set forth in paragraphs (c)(2), (3) and (4) of this section, the reporting person for a reportable transfer is the person engaged within the United States as a business in the provision of real estate closing and settlement services that is:
(i) The person listed as the closing or settlement agent on the closing or settlement statement for the transfer;
(ii) If no person described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that prepares the closing or settlement statement for the transfer;
(iii) If no person described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that files with the recordation office the deed or other instrument that transfers ownership of the residential real property;
(iv) If no person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that underwrites an owner's title insurance policy for the transferee with respect to the transferred residential real property, such as a title insurance company;
(v) If no person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that disburses in any form, including from an escrow account, trust account, or lawyers' trust account, the greatest amount of funds in connection with the residential real property transfer;
(vi) If no person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that provides an evaluation of the status of the title; or
(vii) If no person described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section is involved in the transfer, then the person that prepares the deed or, if no deed is involved, any other legal instrument that transfers ownership of the residential real property, including, with respect to shares in a cooperative housing corporation, the person who prepares the stock certificate.
(2) Employees, agents, and partners. If an employee, agent, or partner acting within the scope of such individual's employment, agency, or partnership would be the reporting person as determined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then the individual's employer, principal, or partnership is deemed to be the reporting person.
Employees, agents, and partners.
If an employee, agent, or partner acting within the scope of such individual's employment, agency, or partnership would be the reporting person as determined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then the individual's employer, principal, or partnership is deemed to be the reporting person.
(3) Financial institutions. A financial institution that has an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program under this chapter is not a reporting person for purposes of this section.
Financial institutions.
A financial institution that has an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program under this chapter is not a reporting person for purposes of this section.
(4) Designation agreement. (i) The reporting person described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may enter into an agreement with any other person described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to designate such other person as the reporting person with respect to the reportable transfer. The person designated by such agreement shall be treated as the reporting person with respect to the transfer. If reporting persons decide to use designation agreements, a separate agreement is required for each reportable transfer.
Designation agreement.
(i) The reporting person described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may enter into an agreement with any other person described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to designate such other person as the reporting person with respect to the reportable transfer. The person designated by such agreement shall be treated as the reporting person with respect to the transfer. If reporting persons decide to use designation agreements, a separate agreement is required for each reportable transfer.
(ii) A designation agreement shall be in writing, and shall include:
(A) The date of the agreement;
(B) The name and address of the transferor;
(C) The name and address of the transferee entity or transferee trust;
(D) Information described in in paragraph (g) identifying transferred residential real property;
(E) The name and address of the person designated through the agreement as the reporting person with respect to the transfer; and
(F) The name and address of all other parties to the agreement.
(d) Information concerning the reporting person. The reporting person shall report:
Information concerning the reporting person.
The reporting person shall report:
(1) The full legal name of the reporting person;
(2) The category of reporting person, as determined in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) The street address that is the reporting person's principal place of business in the United States.
(e) Information concerning the transferee—(1) Transferee entities. For each transferee entity involved in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
Information concerning the transferee
—(1)
Transferee entities.
For each transferee entity involved in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
(i) The following information for the transferee entity:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Trade name or “doing business as” name, if any;
(C) Complete current address consisting of:
(1) The street address that is the transferee entity's principal place of business; and
1
) The street address that is the transferee entity's principal place of business; and
(2) If such principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the transferee entity conducts business, if any; and
2
) If such principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the transferee entity conducts business, if any; and
(D) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(1) The Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Identification Number (IRS TIN) of the transferee entity;
1
) The Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Identification Number (IRS TIN) of the transferee entity;
(2) If the transferee entity has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number for the transferee entity that was issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
2
) If the transferee entity has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number for the transferee entity that was issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(3) If the transferee entity has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
3
) If the transferee entity has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
(ii) The following information for each beneficial owner of the transferee entity:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Date of birth;
(C) Complete current residential street address;
(D) Citizenship; and
(E) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(1) An IRS TIN; or
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(2) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(i) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(ii) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
(iii) The following information for each signing individual, if any:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Date of birth;
(C) Complete current residential street address;
(D) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(1) An IRS TIN; or
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(2) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(i) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(ii) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
(E) Description of the capacity in which the individual is authorized to act as the signing individual; and
(F) If the signing individual is acting in that capacity as an employee, agent, or partner, the name of the individual's employer, principal, or partnership.
(2) Transferee trusts. For each transferee trust in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
Transferee trusts.
For each transferee trust in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
(i) The following information for the transferee trust:
(A) Full legal name, such as the full title of the agreement establishing the transferee trust;
(B) Date the trust instrument was executed;
(C) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(1) IRS TIN; or
1
) IRS TIN; or
(2) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; and
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; and
(D) Whether the transferee trust is revocable;
(ii) The following information for each trustee that is a legal entity:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Trade name or “doing business as” name, if any;
(C) Complete current address consisting of:
(1) The street address that is the trustee's principal place of business; and
1
) The street address that is the trustee's principal place of business; and
(2) If such principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the trustee conducts business, if any; and
2
) If such principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the trustee conducts business, if any; and
(D) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(1) The IRS TIN of the trustee;
1
) The IRS TIN of the trustee;
(2) In the case that a trustee has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
2
) In the case that a trustee has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(3) In the case that a trustee has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
3
) In the case that a trustee has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
(E) For purposes of this section, an individual trustee of the transferee trust is considered to be a beneficial owner of the trust. As such, information on individual trustees must be reported in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section;
(iii) The following information for each beneficial owner of the transferee trust:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Date of birth;
(C) Complete current residential street address;
(D) Citizenship;
(E) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(1) An IRS TIN; or
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(2) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(i) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(ii) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
(F) The category of beneficial owner, as determined in paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(iv) The following information for each signing individual, if any:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Date of birth;
(C) Complete current residential street address;
(D) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(1) An IRS TIN; or
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(2) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(i) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(ii) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
(E) Description of the capacity in which the individual is authorized to act as the signing individual; and
(F) If the signing individual is acting in that capacity as an employee, agent, or partner, the name of the individual's employer, principal, or partnership.
(f) Information concerning the transferor. For each transferor involved in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
Information concerning the transferor.
For each transferor involved in a reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
(1) The following information for a transferor who is an individual:
(i) Full legal name;
(ii) Date of birth;
(iii) Complete current residential street address; and
(iv) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(A) An IRS TIN; or
(B) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(1) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
1
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(2) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
2
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government to the individual;
(2) The following information for a transferor that is a legal entity:
(i) Full legal name;
(ii) Trade name or “doing business as” name, if any;
(iii) Complete current address consisting of:
(A) The street address that is the legal entity's principal place of business; and
(B) If the principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the legal entity conducts business, if any; and
(iv) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(A) An IRS TIN;
(B) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(C) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; and
(3) The following information for a transferor that is a trust:
(i) Full legal name, such as the full title of the agreement establishing the trust;
(ii) Date the trust instrument was executed;
(iii) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(A) IRS TIN; or
(B) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction;
(iv) For each individual who is a trustee of the trust:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Current residential street address; and
(C) Unique identifying number consisting of:
(1) An IRS TIN; or
1
) An IRS TIN; or
(2) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
2
) Where an IRS TIN has not been issued:
(i) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
i
) A tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(ii) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
ii
) The unique identifying number and the issuing jurisdiction from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign government; and
(v) For each legal entity that is a trustee of the trust:
(A) Full legal name;
(B) Trade name or “doing business as” name, if any;
(C) Complete current address consisting of:
(1) The street address that is the legal entity's principal place of business; and
1
) The street address that is the legal entity's principal place of business; and
(2) If the principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the legal entity conducts business, if any; and
2
) If the principal place of business is not in the United States, the street address of the primary location in the United States where the legal entity conducts business, if any; and
(D) Unique identifying number, if any, consisting of:
(1) An IRS TIN;
1
) An IRS TIN;
(2) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
2
) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN, a tax identification number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction; or
(3) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction.
3
) In the case that the legal entity has not been issued an IRS TIN or a foreign tax identification number, an entity registration number issued by a foreign jurisdiction and the name of such jurisdiction.
(g) Information concerning the residential real property. For each residential real property that is the subject of the reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
Information concerning the residential real property.
For each residential real property that is the subject of the reportable transfer, the reporting person shall report:
(1) The street address, if any;
(2) The legal description, such as the section, lot, and block; and
(3) The date of closing.
(h) Information concerning payments. (1) The reporting person shall report the following information concerning each payment, other than a payment disbursed from an escrow or trust account held by a transferee entity or transferee trust, that is made by or on behalf of the transferee entity or transferee trust regarding a reportable transfer:
Information concerning payments.
(1) The reporting person shall report the following information concerning each payment, other than a payment disbursed from an escrow or trust account held by a transferee entity or transferee trust, that is made by or on behalf of the transferee entity or transferee trust regarding a reportable transfer:
(i) The amount of the payment;
(ii) The method by which the payment was made;
(iii) If the payment was paid from an account held at a financial institution, the name of the financial institution and the account number; and
(iv) The name of the payor on any wire, check, or other type of payment if the payor is not the transferee entity or transferee trust.
(2) The reporting person shall report the total consideration paid or to be paid by the transferee entity or transferee trust regarding the reportable transfer, as well as the total consideration paid by or to be paid by all transferees regarding the reportable transfer.
(i) Information concerning hard money, private, and other similar loans. The reporting person shall report whether the reportable transfer involved credit extended by a person that is not a financial institution with an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program and an obligation to report suspicious transactions under this chapter.
Information concerning hard money, private, and other similar loans.
The reporting person shall report whether the reportable transfer involved credit extended by a person that is not a financial institution with an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program and an obligation to report suspicious transactions under this chapter.
(j) Reasonable reliance—(1) General. Except as described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the reporting person may rely upon information provided by other persons, absent knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of the information provided to the reporting person.
Reasonable reliance
—(1)
General.
Except as described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the reporting person may rely upon information provided by other persons, absent knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of the information provided to the reporting person.
(2) Certification when reporting beneficial ownership information. For purposes of reporting information described in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) and (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the reporting person may rely upon information provided by the transferee or a person representing the transferee in the reportable transfer, absent knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of the information provided to the reporting person, if the person providing the information certifies the accuracy of the information in writing to the best of the person's knowledge.
Certification when reporting beneficial ownership information.
For purposes of reporting information described in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) and (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the reporting person may rely upon information provided by the transferee or a person representing the transferee in the reportable transfer, absent knowledge of facts that would reasonably call into question the reliability of the information provided to the reporting person, if the person providing the information certifies the accuracy of the information in writing to the best of the person's knowledge.
(k) Filing procedures—(1) What to file. A reportable transfer shall be reported by completing a Real Estate Report.
Filing procedures
—(1)
What to file.
A reportable transfer shall be reported by completing a Real Estate Report.
(2) Where to file. The Real Estate Report shall be filed electronically with FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the report.
Where to file.
The Real Estate Report shall be filed electronically with FinCEN, as indicated in the instructions to the report.
(3) When to file. A reporting person is required to file a Real Estate Report by the later of either:
When to file.
A reporting person is required to file a Real Estate Report by the later of either:
(i) the final day of the month following the month in which the date of closing occurred; or
(ii) 30 calendar days after the date of closing.
(l) Retention of records. A reporting person shall maintain a copy of any certification described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. In addition, all parties to a designation agreement described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall maintain a copy of such designation agreement.
Retention of records.
A reporting person shall maintain a copy of any certification described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. In addition, all parties to a designation agreement described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall maintain a copy of such designation agreement.
(m) Exemptions—(1) Confidentiality. Reporting persons, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of such persons, and Federal, State, local, or Tribal government authorities, are exempt from the confidentiality provision in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2) that prohibits the disclosure to any person involved in a suspicious transaction that the transaction has been reported or any information that otherwise would reveal that the transaction has been reported.
Exemptions
—(1)
Confidentiality.
Reporting persons, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of such persons, and Federal, State, local, or Tribal government authorities, are exempt from the confidentiality provision in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2) that prohibits the disclosure to any person involved in a suspicious transaction that the transaction has been reported or any information that otherwise would reveal that the transaction has been reported.
(2) Anti-money laundering program. A reporting person under this section is exempt from the requirement to establish an anti-money laundering program, in accordance with 31 CFR 1010.205(b)(1)(v).
Anti-money laundering program.
A reporting person under this section is exempt from the requirement to establish an anti-money laundering program, in accordance with 31 CFR 1010.205(b)(1)(v).
(n) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms have the following meanings.
(1) Beneficial owner—(i) Beneficial owners of transferee entities. (A) The beneficial owners of a transferee entity are the individuals who would be the beneficial owners of the transferee entity on the date of closing if the transferee entity were a reporting company under 31 CFR 1010.380(d) on the date of closing.
Beneficial owner
—(i)
Beneficial owners of transferee entities.
(A) The beneficial owners of a transferee entity are the individuals who would be the beneficial owners of the transferee entity on the date of closing if the transferee entity were a reporting company under 31 CFR 1010.380(d) on the date of closing.
(B) The beneficial owners of a transferee entity that is established as a non-profit corporation or similar entity, regardless of jurisdiction of formation, are limited to individuals who exercise substantial control over the entity, as defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(d)(1) on the date of closing.
(ii) Beneficial owners of transferee trusts. The beneficial owners of a transferee trust are the individuals who fall into one or more of the following categories on the date of closing:
Beneficial owners of transferee trusts.
The beneficial owners of a transferee trust are the individuals who fall into one or more of the following categories on the date of closing:
(A) A trustee of the transferee trust.
(B) An individual other than a trustee with the authority to dispose of transferee trust assets.
(C) A beneficiary who is the sole permissible recipient of income and principal from the transferee trust or who has the right to demand a distribution of, or withdraw, substantially all of the assets from the transferee trust.
(D) A grantor or settlor who has the right to revoke the transferee trust or otherwise withdraw the assets of the transferee trust.
(E) A beneficial owner of any legal entity that holds at least one of the positions in the transferee trust described in paragraphs (n)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, except when the legal entity meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (n)(10)(ii)(A) through (P) of this section. Beneficial ownership of any such legal entity is determined under 31 CFR 1010.380(d), utilizing the criteria for beneficial owners of a reporting company.
(F) A beneficial owner of any trust that holds at least one of the positions in the transferee trust described in paragraphs (n)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, except when the trust meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (n)(11)(ii)(A) through (D). Beneficial ownership of any such trust is determined under this paragraph (n)(1)(ii), utilizing the criteria for beneficial owners of a transferee trust.
(2) Closing or settlement agent. The term “closing or settlement agent” means any person, whether or not acting as an agent for a title agent or company, a licensed attorney, real estate broker, or real estate salesperson, who for another and with or without a commission, fee, or other valuable consideration and with or without the intention or expectation of receiving a commission, fee, or other valuable consideration, directly or indirectly, provides closing or settlement services incident to the transfer of residential real property.
Closing or settlement agent.
The term “closing or settlement agent” means any person, whether or not acting as an agent for a title agent or company, a licensed attorney, real estate broker, or real estate salesperson, who for another and with or without a commission, fee, or other valuable consideration and with or without the intention or expectation of receiving a commission, fee, or other valuable consideration, directly or indirectly, provides closing or settlement services incident to the transfer of residential real property.
(3) Closing or settlement statement. The term “closing or settlement statement” means the statement of receipts and disbursements prepared for the transferee for a transfer of residential real property.
Closing or settlement statement.
The term “closing or settlement statement” means the statement of receipts and disbursements prepared for the transferee for a transfer of residential real property.
(4) Date of closing. The term “date of closing” means the date on which the transferee entity or transferee trust receives an ownership interest in residential real property.
Date of closing.
The term “date of closing” means the date on which the transferee entity or transferee trust receives an ownership interest in residential real property.
(5) Non-financed transfer. The term “non-financed transfer” means a transfer that does not involve an extension of credit to all transferees that is:
Non-financed transfer.
The term “non-financed transfer” means a transfer that does not involve an extension of credit to all transferees that is:
(i) Secured by the transferred residential real property; and
(ii) Extended by a financial institution that has both an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program and an obligation to report suspicious transactions under this chapter.
(6) Ownership interest. The term “ownership interest” means the rights held in residential real property that are demonstrated:
Ownership interest.
The term “ownership interest” means the rights held in residential real property that are demonstrated:
(i) Through a deed, for a reportable transfer described in paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; or
(ii) Through stock, shares, membership, certificate, or other contractual agreement evidencing ownership, for a reportable transfer described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.
(7) Recordation office. The term “recordation office” means any State, local, Territory and Insular Possession, or Tribal office for the recording of reportable transfers as a matter of public record.
Recordation office.
The term “recordation office” means any State, local, Territory and Insular Possession, or Tribal office for the recording of reportable transfers as a matter of public record.
(8) Signing individual. The term “signing individual” means each individual who signed documents on behalf of the transferee as part of the reportable transfer. However, it does not include any individual who signed documents as part of their employment with a financial institution that has both an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program and an obligation to report suspicious transactions under this chapter.
Signing individual.
The term “signing individual” means each individual who signed documents on behalf of the transferee as part of the reportable transfer. However, it does not include any individual who signed documents as part of their employment with a financial institution that has both an obligation to maintain an anti-money laundering program and an obligation to report suspicious transactions under this chapter.
(9) Statutory trust. The term “statutory trust” means any trust created or authorized under the Uniform Statutory Trust Entity Act or as enacted by a State. For the purposes of this subpart, statutory trusts are transferee entities.
Statutory trust.
The term “statutory trust” means any trust created or authorized under the Uniform Statutory Trust Entity Act or as enacted by a State. For the purposes of this subpart, statutory trusts are transferee entities.
(10) Transferee entity. (i) Except as set forth in paragraph (n)(10)(ii) of this section, the term “transferee entity” means any person other than a transferee trust or an individual.
Transferee entity.
(i) Except as set forth in paragraph (n)(10)(ii) of this section, the term “transferee entity” means any person other than a transferee trust or an individual.
(ii) A transferee entity does not include:
(A) A securities reporting issuer defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(i);
(B) A governmental authority defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(ii);
(C) A bank defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(iii);
(D) A credit union defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(iv);
(E) A depository institution holding company defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(v);
(F) A money service business defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(vi);
(G) A broker or dealer in securities defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(vii);
(H) A securities exchange or clearing agency defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(viii);
(I) Any other Exchange Act registered entity defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(ix);
(J) An insurance company defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xii);
(K) A State-licensed insurance producer defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xiii);
(L) A Commodity Exchange Act registered entity defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xiv);
(M) A public utility defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xvi);
(N) A financial market utility defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(xvii);
(O) An investment company as defined in section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 8 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8); and
(P) Any legal entity controlled or wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by an entity described in paragraphs (n)(10)(ii)(A) through (O) of this section.
(11) Transferee trust. (i) Except as set forth in paragraph (n)(11)(ii) of this section, the term “transferee trust” means any legal arrangement created when a person (generally known as a grantor or settlor) places assets under the control of a trustee for the benefit of one or more persons (each generally known as a beneficiary) or for a specified purpose, as well as any legal arrangement similar in structure or function to the above, whether formed under the laws of the United States or a foreign jurisdiction. A trust is deemed to be a transferee trust regardless of whether residential real property is titled in the name of the trust itself or in the name of the trustee in the trustee's capacity as the trustee of the trust.
Transferee trust.
(i) Except as set forth in paragraph (n)(11)(ii) of this section, the term “transferee trust” means any legal arrangement created when a person (generally known as a grantor or settlor) places assets under the control of a trustee for the benefit of one or more persons (each generally known as a beneficiary) or for a specified purpose, as well as any legal arrangement similar in structure or function to the above, whether formed under the laws of the United States or a foreign jurisdiction. A trust is deemed to be a transferee trust regardless of whether residential real property is titled in the name of the trust itself or in the name of the trustee in the trustee's capacity as the trustee of the trust.
(ii) A transferee trust does not include:
(A) A trust that is a securities reporting issuer defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(i);
(B) A trust in which the trustee is a securities reporting issuer defined in 31 CFR 1010.380(c)(2)(i);
(C) A statutory trust; or
(D) An entity wholly owned by a trust described in paragraphs (n)(11)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

§ 1031.321   [Reserved]


PART 1032—XXX

Link to an amendment published at 89 FR 72275, Sept. 4, 2024.

PARTS 1033-1059 [RESERVED]


PART 1060—PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE COMPREHENSIVE IRAN SANCTIONS, ACCOUNTABILITY, AND DIVESTMENT ACT OF 2010

[Authority:Pub. L. 111-195, 124 Stat. 1312.]
Authority:
Pub. L. 111-195, 124 Stat. 1312.
[Source:76 FR 62623, Oct. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.]
Source:
76 FR 62623, Oct. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

§§ 1060.100-1060.200   [Reserved]


§ 1060.300   Reporting obligations on foreign bank relationships with Iranian-linked financial institutions designated under IEEPA and IRGC-linked persons designated under IEEPA.

(a) General. (1) Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(d)) that maintains a correspondent account (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.605(c)(1)(ii)) for a specified foreign bank (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(u)) shall inquire of the foreign bank, and report to FinCEN, with respect to any correspondent account maintained by such foreign bank for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA; any transfer of funds for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA processed by such foreign bank within the preceding 90 calendar days, other than through a correspondent account; and any transfer of funds for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA processed by such foreign bank within the preceding 90 calendar days.
General.
(1) Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(d)) that maintains a correspondent account (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.605(c)(1)(ii)) for a specified foreign bank (as defined in 31 CFR 1010.100(u)) shall inquire of the foreign bank, and report to FinCEN, with respect to any correspondent account maintained by such foreign bank for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA; any transfer of funds for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA processed by such foreign bank within the preceding 90 calendar days, other than through a correspondent account; and any transfer of funds for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA processed by such foreign bank within the preceding 90 calendar days.
(2) For the purposes of this section, an “Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA” means a financial institution designated by the United States Government pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (or listed in an annex to an Executive order issued pursuant to such Act) in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction, or in connection with Iran's support for international terrorism. For the purposes of this section, an “IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA” means Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates designated by the United States Government pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (or listed in an annex to an Executive order issued pursuant to such Act).
Note to paragraph (
a
)(2):
Section 104(c) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (“CISADA”), Public Law 111-195, 124 Stat. 1312, provides the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to prohibit, or impose strict conditions on, the opening or maintaining in the United States of a correspondent account or a payable-through account by a foreign financial institution that the Secretary finds knowingly engages in certain specified activities. Those specified activities include facilitating a significant transaction or transactions or providing significant financial services for a financial institution whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction, or in connection with Iran's support for international terrorism, or for Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to that Act.
et seq.
) in connection with Iran's proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for weapons of mass destruction, or in connection with Iran's support for international terrorism, or for Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its agents or affiliates whose property or interests in property are blocked pursuant to that Act.
(b) Duty to inquire. Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank that maintains a correspondent account for a specified foreign bank shall inquire of such foreign bank for the purpose of having such foreign bank certify: whether it maintains a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA; whether it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account; and whether it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA. Upon such inquiry, a bank shall request that the foreign bank agree to notify the bank if the foreign bank subsequently establishes a new correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA at any time within 365 calendar days from the date of the foreign bank's initial response.
Duty to inquire.
Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank that maintains a correspondent account for a specified foreign bank shall inquire of such foreign bank for the purpose of having such foreign bank certify: whether it maintains a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA; whether it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account; and whether it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA. Upon such inquiry, a bank shall request that the foreign bank agree to notify the bank if the foreign bank subsequently establishes a new correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA at any time within 365 calendar days from the date of the foreign bank's initial response.
(c) Filing Procedures—(1) What to file. Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank shall report to FinCEN, in such format and manner as may be prescribed by FinCEN, the following information for any specified foreign bank:
Filing Procedures
—(1)
What to file.
Upon receiving a written request from FinCEN, a bank shall report to FinCEN, in such format and manner as may be prescribed by FinCEN, the following information for any specified foreign bank:
(i) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that certifies that it maintains a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, and the following related information:
(A) The name of the Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA;
(B) The full name(s) on the correspondent account and the correspondent account number(s);
(C) Applicable information regarding whether the correspondent account has been blocked or otherwise restricted;
(D) Other applicable identifying information for the correspondent account; and
(E) The approximate value in U.S. dollars of transactions processed through the correspondent account within the preceding 90 calendar days;
(ii) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that certifies that it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account, and the following related information:
(A) The name of the Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA;
(B) The identity of the system or means by which such transfer(s) of funds was processed;
(C) The full name on the account(s) and the account number(s), if applicable;
(D) Other applicable identifying information for such transfer(s) of funds; and
(E) The approximate value in U.S. dollars of such transfer(s) of funds processed within the preceding 90 calendar days;
(iii) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that certifies that it has processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA, and the following related information:
(A) The name of the IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA;
(B) The identity of the system or means by which such transfer(s) of funds was processed;
(C) The full name on the account(s) and the account number(s), if applicable;
(D) Other applicable identifying information for such transfer(s) of funds; and
(E) The approximate value in U.S. dollars of such transfer(s) of funds processed within the preceding 90 calendar days;
(iv) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that certifies that it does not maintain a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, that certifies that to its knowledge it has not processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account, and/or that certifies that to its knowledge it has not processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA;
(v) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that the bank cannot determine does not maintain a correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, has not processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA, other than through a correspondent account, and/or has not processed one or more transfers of funds within the preceding 90 calendar days for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, an IRGC-linked person designated under IEEPA, together with the reason(s) for this, such as the failure of the foreign bank to respond to the inquiry by or a request from the bank, the failure of the foreign bank to certify its response, or if the bank has information that is inconsistent with the certification;
(vi) The name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that notifies the bank that it has established a new correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA at any time within 365 calendar days from the date of the foreign bank's initial response, and the following related information:
(A) The name of the Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA;
(B) The full name(s) on the correspondent account and the correspondent account number(s);
(C) Applicable information regarding whether the correspondent account has been blocked or otherwise restricted; and
(D) Other applicable identifying information for the correspondent account;
(vii) If applicable, confirmation that the bank does not maintain a correspondent account for the specified foreign bank(s), but only in instances in which FinCEN specifically requests that the bank report such information; and
(viii) If applicable, the name of any specified foreign bank, for which the bank maintains a correspondent account, that provides a certification to the bank after the 45-calendar-day deadline, along with all applicable related information associated with that certification.
(2) When to file. (i) A bank shall report to FinCEN within 45-calendar-days of the date of the request from FinCEN.
When to file.
(i) A bank shall report to FinCEN within 45-calendar-days of the date of the request from FinCEN.
(ii) Reports based on subsequent notifications received from a foreign bank regarding the establishment of a new correspondent account for an Iranian-linked financial institution designated under IEEPA shall be due within 10 calendar days of receipt of the notification.
(iii) Reports based on certifications received from a foreign bank after the 45 calendar day deadline shall be due within 10 calendar days of receipt of the certification.
(d) Retention of records. A bank shall maintain for a period of five years a copy of any report filed and the original or any business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a report, including a foreign bank certification or other responses to an inquiry under this section.
Retention of records.
A bank shall maintain for a period of five years a copy of any report filed and the original or any business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a report, including a foreign bank certification or other responses to an inquiry under this section.
(e) No other action required. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a bank to take any action, or to decline to take any action, other than the requirements identified in this section, with respect to an account established for, or a transaction engaged in with, a foreign bank. However, nothing in this section relieves a bank of any other applicable regulatory obligation.
No other action required.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a bank to take any action, or to decline to take any action, other than the requirements identified in this section, with respect to an account established for, or a transaction engaged in with, a foreign bank. However, nothing in this section relieves a bank of any other applicable regulatory obligation.

§§ 1060.400-1060.700   [Reserved]


§ 1060.800   Penalties.

A person violating any requirement under this part is subject to the penalties provided for in sections 5321(a) and 5322 of title 31, United States Code, in the same manner and to the same extent as such penalties would apply to any person that is otherwise subject to such section 5321(a) or 5322.

PARTS 1061-1099 [RESERVED]
